

1 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Wary of Europe and Facing Pressure, Lloyds, HSBC and Goldman Will Shed Jobs

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
8:31 p.m. Updated
LONDON - The Lloyds Banking Group said on Thursday that it planned to eliminate 15,000 jobs by the end of 2014 and scale back its overseas operations as part of a reorganization aimed at allowing the British government to sell its stake in the company.
Lloyds, a lender owned 41 percent by the British government, said it expected to save 1.5 billion, or $2.4 billion, a year by the end of 2014. The savings would come from reducing its international presence to fewer than 15 countries from 30, lowering computer system costs and streamlining middle management. 
The cuts take place against a background of job reductions at other, larger banks as weaker financial markets and uncertainty about future banking regulation weigh on earnings growth.
HSBC, the largest British bank, said on Thursday that it would cut 700 positions in Britain. Goldman Sachs said Wednesday that it planned to lay off 230 employees in New York.
Some investors welcomed Lloyds's plan to streamline the business and focus on its British lending operation. The shares closed 9.7 percent higher Thursday in London but continued to trade below the level of the government's investment.
''The reorganization plan met our expectations and the management came across as a team that has gone through it very thoroughly and know where they want to go,'' said Michael Trippitt, an analyst at Oriel Securities in London.
Antonio Horta-Osorio, the Lloyds chief executive, presented the cost-cutting plan four months after taking over the top job with a pledge to turn around the ailing bank. He said he planned to focus on the consumer banking business in Britain and on lending to small and midsize companies. Lloyds is Britain's largest mortgage lender and has operations in Australia, the Netherlands, Germany and Ireland.
''This bank has lost money and is losing money, and we have to get this bank back on its feet to support the U.K. economy and in order to enable it to repay taxpayers' money,'' Mr. Horta-Osorio said. ''This will be a journey, and it will take three to five years.''
Lloyds, which received government funds to help it through the global financial crisis, is under pressure from London to increase lending while selling some assets to allow for more competition in the banking market. The bank has already started to repay government aid and said it expected to receive offers for 632 branches it has to sell by the middle of July.
The savings announced Thursday would allow Lloyds to invest 2 billion in its brand and to expand its wealth management unit, which focuses on high-net-worth individuals with links to Britain. Mr. Horta-Osorio said he would concentrate on the bank's Halifax consumer banking brand and improve customer services, for example by keeping some branches open on weekends.
''Lloyds must become leaner, more agile and more responsive to our customer needs,'' Mr. Horta-Osorio said.
Lloyds reported a net loss of 2.4 billion for the first quarter, reflecting the costs of compensation to some clients who were improperly sold loan insurance.
The bank ran into trouble in 2008 after the government urged it to buy HBOS, a British mortgage lender that was on the verge of collapse. But this move helped to push Lloyds from profit into loss, and its stock slumped, leading the government to step in with a rescue package.
That banks are cutting jobs is no surprise, analysts said. Faced with weak markets, storm clouds in Europe and uncertainty over regulation, business has slowed significantly in recent months.
Goldman Sachs cited ''economic'' reasons for cutting the 230 people, less than 1 percent of the 35,400 it employs around the world. The firm has said it plans to cut head count and hopes to lower its noncompensation expenses 10 percent, or $1 billion, over the next 12 months.
The cuts at HSBC will fall mainly in banking services to individuals. About 460 jobs will be cut in the financial advice team in consumer banking and wealth management, as well as 240 support jobs including compliance, human resources and finance, the bank said.
Susanne Craig contributed reporting from New York.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); LYG (NYSE) (92%); LLOY (LSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ANTONIO HORTA-OSORIO (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



2 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: 4 Indicted In Killing Of a Leader Of Lebanon

BYLINE: By NADA BAKRI; Anthony Shadid and Hwaida Saad contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- A United Nations-backed tribunal investigating the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister delivered indictments to prosecutors here on Thursday, naming four men, including two suspected members of Hezbollah, in a six-year-old case that remade the country's politics and unleashed years of discord.
The naming of members of Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim movement that is the most powerful actor here, was expected for months. But the indictments marked the beginning of a judicial process that could bring unprecedented pressure on the group and its ally Syria, which faces growing isolation over its crackdown on a nearly four-month uprising. 
Although the statements of Lebanese leaders were restrained, details of the indictment could prove inflammatory in a country still deeply divided between Hezbollah and its allies, on the one hand, and a disparate group of its critics and opponents. Only the names were leaked; the details of the indictment, so far, remain secret.
''It's the beginning of something big, not small,'' said Paul Salem, the director of the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut. But, he added: ''Names without a story doesn't have much impact. If the public comes to see there's massive evidence of a terrible story, that will have a big public impact by itself, but that hasn't happened yet.''
According to legal experts, Lebanon has 30 days to serve the arrest warrants. If the suspects are not arrested in that time, the tribunal will make the indictments public and summon the suspects to court.
The former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, was killed along with six bodyguards and five passers-by when an explosion struck his motorcade on a bend of Beirut's Mediterranean coast in February 2005.
The indictments were handed to the state prosecutor, whose duties include serving the arrest warrants. Neither members of the tribunal nor the prosecutor, Said Mirza, offered details of the indictment, but judiciary officials confirmed the names of the four men, two of whom are believed to be senior members of Hezbollah.
One of them is Moustapha Badreddine, a brother-in-law of Imad Moughnieh, a shadowy Hezbollah commander killed in 2007 and blamed for some of the group's most spectacular acts of violence. Among those attacks was the 1983 bombing of the United States Marine barracks in Beirut, which killed 241 service members.
A Lebanese television channel said its sources identified the other Hezbollah member as Salim Ayyash. The affiliations of the remaining two people named in the indictment -- Hassan Anaissy and Assad Sabra -- were unknown. Hezbollah, which has long acknowledged that its members would be indicted, has denounced the court, calling it politicized and a tool of the United States and Israel. The group contends the court has lost credibility, pointing out that its findings were leaked to the media several months ago, along with the statements of witnesses that later turned out to be fraudulent.
A Lebanese television channel broadcast a series of clips this year showing the tribunal's interviews with Lebanese officials that suggested efforts to manipulate the investigation.
Hezbollah wants Lebanon to end its cooperation with the court, including withdrawing Lebanese judges and ending its financial contributions.
''All the things that were leaked to the press so far were true, and this indicates that the court was not all that professional,'' said Talal Atrissi, a political science professor at Lebanese University. ''It makes you question its legitimacy.''
That opinion, though, is not universal in Lebanon, where sentiments over the court mirror a divide in the country that predates Mr. Hariri's assassination and cuts across Lebanon's questions of identity, loyalty to foreign powers, posture toward Israel and the relative strength of Sunni and Shiite Muslims in a country of 18 religious sects.
Saad Hariri, Mr. Hariri's son, was thrust into political leadership by his father's death and became prime minister in 2009. His government collapsed in January when Hezbollah's ministers and their allies walked out. On Thursday, he called the indictment a ''historic moment in Lebanese politics, justice and security,'' and urged the new government, dominated by Hezbollah and its allies, to honor Lebanon's international commitments.
Najib Mikati, the current prime minister, issued a policy statement on Thursday for his newly appointed cabinet, in which he said he would honor those pledges, though the wording of the statement was ambiguous. In a news conference, he said his government would act ''responsibly and realistically.''
''Today we are facing a new reality that we must be aware of,'' he said, ''bearing in mind that these are accusations and not verdicts. All suspects are innocent until proven guilty.''
The indictments suggest that Lebanon could be entering another period of uncertainty, and that the fate of the four accused could determine the longevity of Mr. Mikati's government. Hezbollah effectively holds a veto over his tenure, and last year, its leader, Hassan Nasrallah, vowed ''to cut off the hand'' of anyone who tried to arrest its members.
Hezbollah had no official comment on Thursday.
''The party will try to tighten its control on the Lebanese security department and impose more pressure,'' said Sami Nader, a political analyst in Beirut. ''But they should be aware of the economic and political impact this will have on Lebanon.''
Analysts differed on what the next steps would be. Some suggested that Lebanese security forces might try to arrest the men, though that is widely believed to be unlikely, with the four almost certainly in hiding, perhaps with Hezbollah's help.
''The government can have its cake and eat it, too -- 'We tried, we're trying, but we're not finding them,' '' Mr. Salem said. ''The process is respected in theory.''
Others said Mr. Mikati might argue that the men's arrest would pose a threat to Lebanon's stability. Mr. Atrissi said that would be ''the easiest way out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women passed by a portrait of Rafik Hariri near his grave in Beirut on Thursday. Prime Minister Najib Mikati said indictments from an investigating tribunal were ''accusations and not verdicts.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUSSEIN MALLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



3 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Forced Move May Mean the End of Teatro ZinZanni

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org Chloe Veltman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Dancing waiters, an opera singer announcing dinner courses melodically, and Joan Baez, improbably, in blond finger waves, a beaded dress and feather headdress, speaking in British and French accents -- this is all part of the circus world conjured up by Teatro ZinZanni in San Francisco, one of the Bay Area's few dinner theaters.
Founded in Seattle in 1998, the interactive-theater-with-forks-and-knives experience has entertained an estimated 788,000 tourists and Bay Area residents since it opened on Pier 29 in 2000. 
Even with ticket prices over $100, the popular attraction has weathered more than one economic downturn. But its future is now threatened by another high-profile entertainment event that supporters say will be a boon to San Francisco's bottom line.
In January, the Port of San Francisco announced that 70 or so businesses, including Teatro ZinZanni, would have to move to make way for the next America's Cup sailboat race, in 2013. Of the group of soon-to-be evicted port tenants. which also includes Bauer's Worldwide Transportation , Teatro ZinZanni is one of the largest, with 88 full-time workers and 30 part-time ones.
Unless a new location is found soon, Teatro ZinZanni's owners say this could be their last year in operation.
The theater, which is a nonprofit, regularly donates its tent to charities including Bread & Roses and Zaccho Dance Theatre for fund-raisers. Teatro ZinZanni estimates that the various charities have raised more than $2 million through fund-raisers in its venue over the course of a decade.
If something does not change in the next few weeks, ''we're dead in the water,'' said Norman Langill, Teatro ZinZanni founder.
''It's important that we get a site, important that the site be long term,'' said Mr. Langill, who also operates the production in Seattle. ''Our commitment is for years.''
The City of San Francisco said that finding a new home for the theater was a priority.
''We're helping because they are a longstanding cultural institution that brings a lot of people to the waterfront,'' said Anne Taupier, project manager at the Mayor's Office of Economic and Workforce Development.
(The theater was already threatened with relocation by the anticipated development of a cruise ship pier and has been operating on a short-term lease.)An alternative site was identified earlier this year, but it fell through after the nonprofit had invested about three months and around $42,000 making plans for it.
Ms. Taupier said that the site was not large enough for the theater and that the city had run into problems with the underground utilities.
Now the city and the theater have their hopes pinned on another waterfront site about which Ms. Taupier said she was ''optimistic.''
Even though Teatro ZinZanni's existence in San Francisco depends on the search for a permanent home, the whole production is designed around a special roaming performance tent called a spiegeltent, first spotted by Mr. Langill while in Barcelona for another production during the 1992 Summer Olympics.
''When I walked in, I was transported,'' he said,.
He was also inspired while traveling in Germany by ''variety theater, Marlene Dietrich and 'Blue Angel' -- what you might call vaudeville.''
While the term ''dinner theater'' might conjure up visions of Las Vegas nightclubs, Teatro ZinZanni has grown into ''a new art form,'' said Yevgeniy Voronin, a magician who co-stars with Joan Baez in the company's current show, ''Maestro's Enchantment.''
The performances at ZinZanni are multifaceted. While the main performers, like Mr. Voronin and Ms. Baez, develop whole story lines over the course of the night, many of the waiters double as actors or dancers.
The dinner is not just sneaked in while the audience's eyes are on the stage: every course is announced with operatic song, and the meal is frequently interrupted by the performers doing magic tricks or cracking jokes at individual tables.
''You can't describe it in a single word,'' said Mr. Langill, who has also been a playwright and is the founder of One Reel, an event production company. ''It's a combination of theater, stand-up comedy, popular music and circus in an intimate format that breaks the fourth wall.''
Backstage after a recent show, Ms. Baez spoke about what led her to Teatro ZinZanni.
''Ten years ago, that was the first time I saw it,'' she said. ''I was infatuated. I called up and said, 'I want to be in the circus!'''
Ms. Baez jumped into the role of Madame ZinZanni, off and on, for the better part of the decade. She will be appearing in the current show through July.
The specter of closing up shop was ''highly distressing'' to the staff, said Stanley Morris, who runs Restaurant TZ, the food part of the operation.
Mr. Voronin said, ''We're like family.''
And as a barefoot Ms. Baez leapt up from a couch to welcome her mother amid an array of other performers' children and friends hanging out, the atmosphere of ZinZanni did seem familiar.
Sergiy Krutikov, a Moscow Circus veteran, pulled out an accordion and started to play. Ms. Baez, who lives in Woodside, began doing a polka.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Teatro ZinZanni, a dinner theater-circus experience in San Francisco, is endangered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN HOWARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); CHARITIES (88%); RELOCATIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); DANCE COMPANIES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CRUISES (75%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); BOAT RACING (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); EVICTION (70%); SAILING (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); MAYORS (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



4 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TCM) STAR OF THE MONTH: SINGING COWBOYS Turner Classic Movies celebrates the tuneful heroes of the Wild West -- the cowpokes like Gene Autry and Roy Rogers (above) who could ride, shoot and slug it out with the best of them before sliding out of the saddle, grabbing a guitar and serenading listeners with ballads like ''Tumbling Tumbleweeds'' and ''Happy Trails.'' Not every tough guy was up to the job. John Wayne once said, according to TCM, that the most embarrassing moment of his career took place during the filming of ''Riders of Destiny'' (1933) when executives at Monogram Pictures insisted he sit by a tree, move his lips and pretend to sing while a hidden warbler named Bill Bradbury did the actual crooning. This 26-movie tribute, shown on Fridays in July, kicks off with three classics starring Rogers; his wife, Dale Evans; and Rogers's golden palomino, Trigger: ''Cowboy and the Senorita'' (1944), about outlaws who conceal a gold mine's true value from the man who inherited it; ''Don't Fence Me In'' (1945), about a female reporter who travels west to dig up the truth about a long-dead bandit, at 9:30; and ''My Pal Trigger'' (1946), at 10:45, in which a cowboy fights to clear his name after he is accused of shooting a friend's horse. 
8 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) faces extensive budget cuts to his East Dillon football program, while Tami (Connie Britton) is given the opportunity of a lifetime in Pennsylvania. Meanwhile the Lions prepare for the state championship.
8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) BUCKET & SKINNER'S EPIC ADVENTURES Two best friends from Southern California -- the analytical Bucket (Taylor Gray) and the carefree Skinner (Dillon Lane) -- embark on a quest for awesomeness amid high school, surfing and everyday issues. Their lives are ruled by three goals: stay friends forever, always be near a beach, and, when a beach isn't near, find a way to get to one. In this premiere episode Bucket wants to win the affection of his classmate Kelly (Ashley Argota), so Skinner decides to nominate him as class president, forcing him to run against his nemesis, the popular athlete Aloe (Glenn McCuen). At 8:30 the guys dress as girls to sneak into an exclusive party hosted by Aloe, but they forget to bring a change of clothes. The series will also be shown at 8 p.m. on Saturday before moving into its regular 7 p.m. time slot on Sunday.
8 P.M. (FX) MADAGASCAR: ESCAPE 2 AFRICA (2008) Ben Stiller, Chris Rock, David Schwimmer and Jada Pinkett Smith reprise their roles as the voices of a group of New York zoo animals -- a caged lion, a yakety zebra, a neurotic giraffe and a voluptuous hippo -- that crash-land their rickety plane in Africa in this animated sequel. Sacha Baron Cohen does a turn as a deranged lemur, Bernie Mac plays a lion's lion, and Alec Baldwin chimes in as the resident bad guy. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis said the movie was ''good enough in patches to make its distracting star turns, storybook cliches and stereotypes harder to take than they would be in a less enjoyable movie.''
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, discusses the situation in Greece and how debt at home and abroad will shape the future. David Wasserman of The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter than follows Congressional politics, talks about a radical approach to redistricting in California.
10 P.M. (Sundance) NOTES ON A SCANDAL (2006) Barbara (Judi Dench), a jaundiced, aging teacher at an English school, becomes obsessed with Sheba (Cate Blanchett, above left, with Ms. Dench), a much younger art instructor, then insinuates herself into Sheba's life when she discovers that her colleague is having an affair with a 15-year-old student (Andrew Simpson). Bill Nighy plays Sheba's devoted older husband. Richard Eyre directed this Oscar-nominated drama, which included nods for leading and supporting actress, adapted from the novel by Zoe Heller. ''What is 'Notes on a Scandal'?'' Manohla Dargis asked in The New York Times. ''Well, for starters, it is a painstakingly classy package.'' Mr. Eyre ran the National Theater in London; the screenwriter, Patrick Marber, wrote the play ''Closer''; and Philip Glass composed the score. The actors, she added, ''are equally distinguished: Ms. Dench and Ms. Blanchett are among the finest on the market today, and each can deliver expert performances, even when, as is the case here, their roles are false and hollow. The performers sell the goods, but the goods are cheap.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); HORSES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); SURFING (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BUDGETS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



5 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: 20 Years Later, A Plan to Save Spotted Owls

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- It has been two decades since the fate of a bashful bird that most people had never seen came to symbolize the bitter divide over whether to save or saw down the ancient forests of the Pacific Northwest. Yet it was not until Thursday that the federal government offered its final plan to prevent the bird, the northern spotted owl, from going extinct.
After repeated revisions, constant court fights and shifting science, the Fish and Wildlife Service presented a plan that addresses a range of threats to the owl, including some that few imagined when it was listed as a threatened species in 1990. 
The newer threats include climate change and the arrival of a formidable feathered competitor, the barred owl, in the soaring old-growth evergreens of Washington, Oregon and California where spotted owls nest and hunt.
One experiment included in the plan: shooting hundreds of barred owls to see whether that helps spotted owls recover.
Even after all these years since the spotted owl became the cause celebre of the environmental movement, it is far from clear that the plan is a solution. Advocates on both sides say it will inevitably be challenged, and both sides have expressed frustration with the Obama administration on the issue.
Some contentious points have still not been addressed, including precisely mapping the so-called critical habitat to be protected. And some experts say that while two decades of protections for the owl have helped preserve forest ecosystems, they are less certain that the bird itself can still be saved.
The spotted owl is declining by an average of 3 percent per year across its range. While some populations in Southern Oregon and Northern California are more stable, some of the steepest rates of decline are here in Washington. Some study areas in the Olympic and Cascade ranges show annual declines as high as 9 percent.
''I've certainly become much less confident as the years have gone by,'' said Eric Forsman, a research biologist with the United States Forest Service in Corvallis, Ore., whose work in the 1970s first drew attention to the owl. ''If you'd asked me in 1975, 'Can we fix this problem?', I'd have said, 'Oh yeah, this problem will go away.' ''
The listing of the spotted owl as a threatened species led to a virtual ban on logging in many older federal forests, inspiring angry lawsuits and threats of violence by rural loggers against owl advocates, who often came from urban areas.
''We were trained not to tell people in the local towns that we were surveying spotted owls,'' said Paula Swedeen, a government owl surveyor in the early 1990s who now works for a nonprofit group that develops incentives for private forest owners to retain and restore owl habitat.
Yet over time, the public passion and the owl both faded.
Even as unemployment in some timber counties routinely rises into double digits, there are no longer presidential Timber Conferences, like the one Bill Clinton held in Oregon in 1993 seeking middle ground between conservation and protecting rural economies. Many factors contribute to rural declines, but logging restrictions played a role.
''Nothing against the bird, but it's wreaked a lot of havoc in the Pacific Northwest for the past 20 years,'' said Ray Wilkeson, president of the Oregon Forest Industries Council, which represents loggers, sawmills and others in the industry. ''A lot of human suffering has resulted from this. Now there's new threats to the owl that may be beyond anybody's ability to control.''
The barred owl, a bigger, more adaptable bird with a broader diet than the flying squirrels and the wood rats that spotted owls prefer, has expanded its range westward in the past century, and it is now a more common resident than spotted owls in many Northwest forests. Sometimes barred owls even kill male spotted owls and mate with females.
''The barred owl is the most imminent challenge,'' said Paul Henson, the Fish and Wildlife Service's team leader for the recovery plan. ''We believe there is a very good chance of recovering the spotted owl in the long term if we can manage the barred owl issue in the short term.''
Others are less sure. While some early experiments showed success, Dr. Forsman, the Forest Service biologist, questions whether barred owls could be managed on a broad scale, if it came to that.
''You would have to shoot barred owls forever to do that,'' he said, ''and I don't think that's likely to happen.''
The plan's supporters say it provides for studies that may reveal ways to manage forests to create space for both birds.
Although the plan does not map critical habitat -- the mapping process is more than a year away from completion, a fact that frustrates conservationists -- it proposes expanding protections for owls beyond areas currently set aside. The existing areas were outlined by the Northwest Forest Plan, which was approved a year after President Clinton's Timber Conference, revised under President George W. Bush to allow more logging and reinstated by the Obama administration.
The American Forest Resource Council, a timber industry group, said the plan would impose ''massive new restrictions on both federal and private lands.''
But supporters say it will provide more wood for mills by increasing forest thinning and restoration work to battle threats like disease and fire that could increase with climate change. The plan would provide timber companies incentives to create potential spotted owl habitat. Officials from the Forest Service and from the Bureau of Land Management, which oversee logging on federal land, expressed support for the plan.
''Thinning opportunity, that's what's always offered up to us as an alleged middle ground,'' said Mr. Wilkeson of the Oregon Forest Industries Council. ''But it's pretty limited.''
While timber advocates question protections for a bird that some say may be bound for extinction, conservationists say that it is too soon to give up on the spotted owl, and that the fight to save it has served broader benefits of the forest, from cleaner water and air to habitat for hundreds of other species, including endangered salmon.
''The spotted owl is the icon,'' Dr. Forsman said, ''but there are a lot of other players in terms of species and protecting biodiversity in these forests.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The northern spotted owl was listed as threatened in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Barred owls, bigger and more adaptable, now increasingly compete with spotted owls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON POLLOCK/WATERLOO COURIER, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); BIRDS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); BIOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (72%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LITIGATION (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



6 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Heading Into a Long (Driving) Weekend

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Across Europe, Irking Drivers Is Urban Policy'' (front page, June 27):
European cities are cited for creating environments that are ''openly hostile'' to cars. Yet for almost a century, it has been the world's cities that have been on the receiving end of an openly hostile siege by the automobile.
Many of the European measures to limit the dominance of the car are merely reversals of mid-20th-century developments: taking back some of the roughly 50 percent of the urban environment occupied by cars and parking, restricting autos to nonlethal speeds, expanding public transport and allowing pedestrians renewed access to the streets rather than relegating them to narrow sidewalks, tunnels and overpasses. 
It is time for American cities to embrace this sea change in public policy. The rewards will include cleaner air and water, increased health and safety, and more convivial public spaces.
JEFF PRANT Brooklyn, June 29, 2011
The writer serves on the board of Transportation Alternatives.
To the Editor:
San Francisco is a delight to walk in, but even here, cars rule the roads. Market Street has not yet been ''pedestrianized,'' and many people are hit every year on the wide, dangerous streets that cross our city's main boulevard. We've ceded our public space to the private vehicle, and we're all paying the price.
An American is struck by a car every seven minutes. What a waste. Redesigning streets would be a lot cheaper and kinder than what we're doing now: paying emergency-room costs for tragedies that could have been prevented.
As the Zurich official in your article said about other cities' policies, ''I can't get used to the idea that I am worth less than a car.''
Here in America, the new federal transportation bill should finance ''complete streets'' where everyone can walk safely and with dignity. Aren't we worth that much?
ELIZABETH STAMPE Exec. Dir., Walk San Francisco San Francisco, June 27, 2011
To the Editor:
I recently moved from New York City, where it is unusual in many parts to own a car, to Washington, D.C., where the car-less seem far less common. It's been difficult to adjust to the more car-centric ways of the Beltway.
If only our nation's capital would reduce on-street parking, close streets to vehicles and otherwise create disincentives for car use and ownership. Then, perhaps someday I will not have to wait minutes to cross a traffic circle, and I will be able to walk on sidewalks without fear of a car speeding out of an alley.
Fewer cars would also increase the likelihood that I would join the brave cyclists who share the road with cars. Until then, I will walk with caution and wait with patience until the car-less once again rule the road.
JESSICA L. CAMPBELL Washington, June 27, 2011
To the Editor:
Europe's forward-thinking traffic planners and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York get it: ''pedestrianizing'' cities is good for the environment. Among the benefits is that it also saves lives.
Road traffic crashes kill more than 1.3 million people and injure 50 million more each year, the World Health Organization says. It is unacceptable not to take measures to prevent these tragedies.
While sometimes inconvenient to shoppers and businesses, removing motor vehicles from the equation is one way to reduce that staggering statistic.
CATHY SILBERMAN Executive Director, Association for Safe International Road Travel Rockville, Md., June 28, 2011
To the Editor:
Where once a boy and a girl in love could amble on the banks of the Seine in Paris, stopping every now and then to steal a kiss, in today's world, lovers have been largely replaced by snarling, roaring automobile traffic. Love has been sacrificed to make the banks of the Seine into an adjunct of the automobile's expanding domain -- in the hopeless quest of speeding frantic drivers from one traffic jam to the next.
Paris must dismantle all automobile traffic access to the banks of the Seine, so that lovers may reclaim what is rightfully theirs.
MICHEL DEDINA Paris, June 28, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANA ALBERO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITIES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); WRITERS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



7 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 705 words

PERSON: Charles W. Whalen Jr. 

HEADLINE: C.W. Whalen Jr., 90, Dies; Led Vietnam War Dissent

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Charles W. Whalen Jr., a six-term congressman from Ohio who led Republican opposition to the Vietnam War and espoused a variety of liberal causes, died on Monday in Washington. He was 90.
His death was confirmed by a nephew, Jim Whalen.
Mr. Whalen, a former economics professor and state legislator from Dayton, won election from Ohio's Third District in 1966 and, on taking office, quickly moved to the forefront of liberal Republicans opposed to the war, a position he articulated forcefully as a member of the Armed Services Committee. 
In 1967 he joined with four colleagues who belonged to the liberal Republican club known as the Wednesday Group to write a detailed proposal to end the draft and establish an all-volunteer military within five years.
The recommendations in ''How to End the Draft: The Case for an All-Volunteer Army'' included increased pay, improved retirement benefits, expanded educational programs and a greater advertising budget for recruitment. Most were adopted over the next several years.
In the early 1970s Mr. Whalen was the sponsor or a co-sponsor of several unsuccessful amendments aimed at cutting the military's budget, ending the draft or imposing a deadline to withdraw all American troops from Southeast Asia.
A free-market conservative, he opposed the Vietnam War largely for economic reasons. The money could be put to better use, he argued, addressing domestic problems normally thought of as the preoccupation of liberals, like education, social injustice and urban decline.
A survey by Congressional Quarterly in 1974 found that he had voted against a majority of his Republican colleagues 72 percent of the time the previous year.
Mr. Whalen also took a resolute stand in favor of press freedom, especially the right of journalists to protect confidential sources. He addressed the subject in ''Your Right to Know'' (1973), to which the CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite contributed a forward.
Charles William Whalen Jr., known as Chuck, was born on July 31, 1920, in Dayton. He attended the University of Dayton, where he received a degree in business education in 1942. During World War II he served with the Army in the China, India and Burma theater.
After earning a master's degree in business administration from Harvard in 1946, he became vice president of the Dayton Dress Company, owned by his father.
In the early 1950s he began teaching at the University of Dayton, where he became chairman of the economics department in 1962. He served in the state's General Assembly for 12 years, writing the state's first fair-housing law, before winning election to the House of Representatives in 1967.
He was hugely popular in his home district, even though Democrats and Independents far outnumbered Republicans, and even though his antiwar stance threatened jobs at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, near Dayton.
A tireless door-to-door campaigner, in 1970 and 1972 he carried his district with three-quarters of the vote. In 1974 he was the only congressman to run unopposed in both the primary and the general election.
He retired in 1979, tired of the increasing friction with local party officials and Republican leaders in Washington, who found him too liberal. He also expressed frustration with Congress as an agent for change.
''We've come to realize there is a limit to our powers,'' he told The New York Times in 1978, explaining why he and several other House members were not running for re-election. ''We have a feeling that we're not as powerful as we thought we were.''
After leaving office, he became a Democrat.
He spent much of his time in retirement doing the research for two works of history that he wrote with his wife, Barbara, a former journalist: ''The Longest Debate: A Legislative History of the 1964 Civil Rights Act'' (1985) and ''The Fighting McCooks: America's Famous Fighting Family'' (2006), about two Ohio brothers and their 13 sons who served in the Union Army during the Civil War.
Mr. Whalen, who lived in Bethesda, Md., is survived by his wife and their six children, Charles, of Delray Beach, Fla.; Daniel, of Washington; Edward, of Reston, Va.; Joseph, of Lambertville, N.J.; Anne McLindon of Bethesda; and Mary Scherer of Brambleton, Va.; and seven grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles W. Whalen Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1974) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); VIETNAM WAR (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); WRITERS (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); JOURNALISM (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



8 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: The Cubs' Woes Increase, and Wrigleyville Feels the Pain

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH. 
dmcgrath@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Lars Geary could have been working on his novel or at least reading one, as he manned the desk at Tickets 321.com, a one-room brokerage at 950 West Addison Street, a half-block from the Billy Williams statue that sits outside the right-field entrance to Wrigley Field.
The Cubs and the world champion San Francisco Giants would be playing across the street in a few hours, but you wouldn't have known it inside Tickets 321. Mr. Geary handled an occasional Eddie Vedder concert inquiry, but the Cubs might as well have been playing in San Francisco.
''Business is horrible,'' Mr. Geary said. ''If you had told me before the season that the Cubs were going to lose most of their games and it would rain on a lot of them, I would tell you I'm losing money. Guess what happened.'' 
The National League standings offer one clue. The Cubs were in fifth place at the start of play on Thursday, on pace for 97 losses and incapable of putting together even a three-game winning streak. Throw in the third-highest ticket prices in baseball, brutal early-season weather and a soft economy and the result is a substantial drop-off in the demand for tickets that were the hottest in the city just three years ago.
The day games, the famous ballpark and a fan base that has stuck by the Cubs through thin and thinner still make for a memorable baseball experience. But the carnival-like atmosphere that Harry Caray brought to the neighborhood in the mid-'80s seems oddly subdued in Year 2 of the Ricketts Family ownership.
The bars that make Wrigleyville one of the city's liveliest night-life districts are feeling the pinch. So are the 16 converted apartment buildings that offer rooftop views of Cubs games from Waveland and Sheffield Avenues. Tom Ricketts's proposal to renovate Wrigley Field with money from an entertainment tax is dead and seems to have alienated fans who expected more from him. How could he seek government assistance with Illinois in such financial distress?
The Cubs are expecting sellout crowds for Round 2 of the City Series with the White Sox this weekend, and a record-setting three-game set with the Yankees (June 17-19) helped push average attendance to 36,148 per game, or 87.8 percent of ballpark capacity. The actual number is somewhat less than that; like all major league teams, the Cubs base their attendance figures on tickets sold, not on the number of people in the ballpark. The empty seats at most early-season games suggested that many fans -- and some brokers like Mr. Geary -- have bought tickets but are not using or reselling them via StubHub, the online resale service that offers tickets to all remaining home games, many at less than face value.
The Cubs are ninth in major league home attendance, but their announced per-game average is down 4.4 percent from last year. It is down nearly 12 percent from 2008, their last playoff season, when they drew a franchise-record 3,300,200 fans, averaged 40,743 per game and played to 99.1 percent of Wrigley capacity.
The Cubs' television ratings have also taken a hit. They are averaging a 2.33 rating for their Comcast SportsNet telecasts, down 14 percent from last year's 2.77 and 47 percent below the 5.0 average of their 2008 playoff year.
Meanwhile, rooftop owners are offering Groupon deals.
Team Marketing Report, a sports-industry newsletter, sets the Cubs' average ticket price at $46.90 across five tiers, based on the desirability of games. Only the Red Sox ($53.80) and the Yankees ($51.83) charge more, and between them they have won seven World Series titles in the past 15 years. The Cubs are approaching 103 years without a World Series victory and 66 years since they played in the Series.
''It's like the cover charge at a bar. You'll pay it if the band is good enough,'' Mr. Geary said. ''The Cubs aren't exactly the Rolling Stones. Right now the product on the field is not worth what they're charging.''
The Cubs could always count on Wrigley Field's charm to help compensate for the substandard product often on display. But they changed the game when they won three division titles in six years and moved their payroll into baseball's top tier in the last decade.
''They were these 'lovable losers' pushing uphill for all those years, and then all of a sudden they spend all this money to get to the top,'' said Irv Rein, an author and communication studies professor at Northwestern University who consults with sports teams on fan behavior. ''They didn't get there, but it changed who they are. You can't be a 'lovable loser' if you're one of the top-spending teams, even if you're still losing.''
Crane Kenney, the Cubs president, acknowledged that Year 2 of Ricketts family ownership had not gone according to plan.
''We've struggled on the field, we've had terrible weather, and the economy is still bad. It's like a perfect storm,'' he said. ''We set the bar pretty high when we won three times in six years, and that's what we have to get back to. And we don't shirk from that. We want our fans to have expectations for us.''
The Cubs insist that starts with Tom Ricketts, the chairman, whose family bought the team in October 2009. Mr. Ricketts, a former investment banker and Wrigley Field bleachers regular, was hailed as a fresh face after 28 years of Tribune Company bureaucracy, but he has yet to win over skeptical fans. The request for government assistance with renovations was mishandled, and fans were left to wonder what team he was watching when he blithely dismissed the on-field struggles as injury-related.
''Someone has to articulate the aspirational vision of the franchise, what we want to be, and that should be Tom,'' said Jim Schmidt, a sports marketing and advertising specialist with Downtown Partners in Chicago. ''He doesn't have to be dynamic, but he has to be honest: 'We know it's been a struggle, but we're going to do everything in our power to deliver a winner.' ''
The Cubs used their blue-on-white W flag, their symbol of victory, as the first letter in Way in an early ''Way of Life'' marketing campaign. ''That was a mistake,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''Winning is not a way of life with Cub fans. You have to convince them that you're going to change that and articulate how.'' (Downtown Partners has provided pro bono Web site design services for The Chicago News Cooperative.)
Wrigleyville-area merchants hope they start winning soon. Those days in 2003, when fans with no hope of landing a ticket packed the streets just to be close to the ballpark during the playoff run, seem like ancient history.
''We're O.K. We're not getting killed,'' said John Kessler, a bartender at Murphy's Bleachers, a popular gathering spot on the corner of Waveland and Sheffield. ''Put it this way: People are a lot more likely to come across the street and have a drink if the Cubs win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cubs fans were surrounded by empty seats at a Wrigley Field game against the Milwaukee Brewers in June. The Cubs won 5-4 in 10 innings.
 Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano at a recent Cubs-Giants game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS FANS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (83%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



9 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Corn Prices Fall Sharply After a Larger-Than-Expected Estimate of Crop

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The nation's farmers have planted the second-largest corn crop in nearly seven decades, the Agriculture Department reported Thursday, setting off a sharp decline in prices.
The size of this year's corn crop will be 92.3 million acres, the department said, 9 percent more than the average annual corn crop over the last decade. The only crop bigger in the last 67 years was planted in 2007.
Many analysts had worried that wet weather this spring would cut the number of corn acres. But high prices encouraged farmers to use more acres for corn, and less for soybeans and wheat. 
A larger crop estimate drove corn futures 30 cents lower, to nearly $6.21 per bushel. That is the maximum price change allowed by futures exchanges. Corn rose to a high of $7.99 per bushel in June.
More expensive grain has led to food price increases this year. That could ultimately make everything from beef to cereal to soft drinks more expensive at the supermarket. For all of 2011, the department predicts food prices will rise 3 to 4 percent.
A huge harvest in August could ultimately slow food inflation. It typically takes six months for changes in commodity prices to affect retail food prices in the United States. Analysts said consumers could see some relief at the supermarket by early 2012.
''All of us who perceived tighter supplies up to this point, all of us were proven wrong today,'' said Jason Ward, an analyst with Northstar Commodity in Minneapolis.
Industry traders had expected 90.8 million acres of corn to be planted. Knowing that far more corn is in the pipeline will likely pull grain prices down significantly this summer, Mr. Ward said.
Farmers chose to plant corn at the expense of this year's soybean crop. They planted 75.2 million acres of soybeans, about 3 percent less than last year.
Farmers have a limited supply of good farmland and usually trade one crop for another on their acreage.
''It seemed to me there was $100 to $150 per acre more money in the corn than there was in the beans,'' said Tom Kreutzer, who planted 150 acres of corn on his farm near Wakeeney, Kan. ''That's the kind of math that a lot of guys were using.''
A separate report from the Agriculture Department on Thursday estimated the United States had 3.67 billion bushels of corn in storage. Most analysts were expecting a reserve of 3.3 billion bushels, said John Sanow, an analyst with Telvent in Omaha. If the reserve estimate is accurate, it means backup supplies could be higher this year and next. That would ease fears of a shortage.
Still, in August corn reserves are expected to hit their lowest level since 1995, according to the most recent department estimate. Global demand from ethanol producers and livestock owners has risen faster than farmers' production over the last decade.
Higher corn prices make soybeans and wheat more expensive because farmers plant less of them.
Raised expectations for this fall's corn crop also helped lower soybean prices in trading on Thursday. Soybeans fell 29 cents to $12.94 a bushel.
A bigger crop doesn't guarantee lower food prices. A drought or flood could limit the size of the harvested crop.
Mr. Ward said many of the acres planted this spring were on marginal land that would not yield much grain.
Corn is a key ingredient in feed for poultry and livestock, and a staple in many processed foods. When corn prices rise, food processors and grocers pass along the higher costs to the consumer.
Surging corn and soybean prices are showing up at the grocery store this year.
In May, a sirloin steak cost about 7 percent more than last year, according to the most recent available Bureau of Labor Statistics figures. The price of pork chops jumped 9 percent. The price of spaghetti and macaroni noodles, which often contain soybean meal and corn syrup, jumped 13 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); CROP PRODUCTION (89%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); GRAIN RESERVES (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (73%); ALCOHOLS (72%); SOFT DRINKS (53%); ETHANOL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



10 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: As Drought Intensifies, Towns and Schools Worry About Maintaining Athletic Fields

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH; Ingrid Husby contributed reporting.. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
LLANO -- The two practice fields used by high school football teams here still look green, but perhaps not for long. This Central Texas town banned outdoor irrigation using city water last week, so workers have laid hundreds of feet of pipe from the fields to an old well. No one is sure how much water the well may hold.
''We hope this is a temporary solution,'' said Dennis R. Hill, the superintendent of the Llano Independent School District. ''Ultimately, it needs to rain. It needs to rain a lot.'' 
Across Texas, as one of the worst droughts in history intensifies, numerous cities and towns have instituted water restrictions. Earlier this week, the federal Department of Agriculture designated most of the state a natural-disaster area, allowing farmers and ranchers statewide to apply for emergency low-interest loans.
A notable if lesser worry is the condition of athletic fields. Too much dirt creates safety concerns, and some fields are getting patchy. Worse, a summer of 90- to 100-degree temperatures and tightening restrictions on sprinklers lies ahead -- not to mention that players will begin trampling the fields in August, when practices start.
''The extreme heat and no rain is burning up our fields,'' James W. Riggen, a maintenance official with the Midland Independent School District, said in an e-mail.
Midland waters its high school football fields three to four times a week, more than some other fields. Even so, Mr. Riggen said, they ''are looking spotted and brown.'' Midland has had virtually no rain for nine months and begins mandatory watering restrictions on Friday.
More cities are ordering cutbacks in water use. Llano, a town of about 3,200 people where signs around town say ''No Watering,'' is an extreme case because of its dependence on the nearly-dry Llano River, but San Antonio and San Marcos allow watering just once a week.
Cities may exempt school fields from some water restrictions. Michael Peterson, the director of the buildings and grounds division at St. Edward's University in Austin, said that if Austin went to once-a-week watering, which could happen in late summer if there is not significant rainfall, he hoped to be allowed to continue running sprinklers twice a week, as he does now. San Antonio public schools are currently allowed to water their fields three times a week for 40 minutes each, and Midland's high school football fields will continue to get water several times weekly, though junior high football fields get water twice weekly.
Of course, sports fields experience wear and tear even in the best conditions -- near soccer goals, for example. But the drought has created additional problems. Small pebbles that are brought to the surface during the process of aerating the field -- digging out tiny plugs to let water filter into the ground more easily -- become more obvious when the grass is thinner, Mr. Peterson said. The St. Edward's fields remain quite green, although weeds are spreading on a practice soccer field.
Even artificial turf needs occasional water to wash off the grit, according to maintenance officials, though they say this is not yet a serious concern.
In Llano, if the football practice fields cannot get the estimated 54,000 gallons of water that they need each week, the community may feel the effect. That's because practice would move to the game field, which is watered by a working well. But heavy use could make that field unsuitable for games, so Llano might have to play its entire schedule at opponents' homes, hurting morale -- and the local economy.
''A lot of folks come to the ball game,'' Mr. Hill said, ''and they buy some gas and eat dinner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lack of water has affected a field at St. Edward's University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WISEMAN/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); SOCCER (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); CITIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



11 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra Members Protest City Opera Move From Lincoln Center

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
A brass quintet from New York City Opera's orchestra played tunes from ''Carmen,'' ''Aida'' and ''La Boheme'' on the sidewalk in front of Lincoln Center Plaza on Thursday. A sanitation truck driver honked in solidarity. Protesters held signs denouncing the company's leader and demanding that he not move City Opera from the cultural complex.
Under crystalline skies and surrounded by balmy breezes, the musical demonstration by several dozen choristers and musicians, many in concert black, was a time-tested means of labor protest for orchestra players. The artists were adding their voices to the calls of many others in the music world, including Julius Rudel, the company's former general director and principal conductor, to keep City Opera at Lincoln Center. 
George Steel, the company's general manager and artistic director, has announced the financially ailing company would leave the David H. Koch Theater, which he said costs too much.
Underneath the seemingly jovial protest to the move was a serious subtext: the musicians say their collective bargaining agreement requires orchestra consent for any performances outside of Lincoln Center or City Center, the company's former home. Gail Kruvand, the chairwoman of the orchestra's negotiating committee, was asked if the demonstration's no-move message was effectively a denial of consent.
''One could draw that conclusion,'' she said, adding that Mr. Steel has yet to discuss the move with the committee. ''It's an issue to be negotiated,'' she said. Mr. Steel announced the decision on May 20, but has yet to disclose what or where the company will perform.
The orchestra's contract expired on May 31 but the terms remain in effect, Ms. Kruvand said. She acknowledged that Mr. Steel could move the company without union permission, but said that would complicate his bargaining position. ''He wants to turn this into a minor league presenting organization,'' she said.
A telephone call and e-mail to the company's spokeswoman were not immediately responded to. City Opera orchestra musicians leafleted a company-sponsored concert at the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center on Tuesday evening. They also have a Facebook page, Twitter feed and Web site, with an online petition.
The orchestra players say they made $2.5 million in concessions two years ago when they agreed to reduce their schedule to 22 weeks from 29. Ms. Kruvand said orchestra costs amounted to 12 percent of the company's $31 million budget last year, or $3.7 million. That's $700,000 more than a year's worth of ticket revenues. Annual payments for the Koch Theater amount to about $4.5 million.
Mr. Steel has proposed a $13 million budget for next year, all that the company said it could afford. City Opera will present five operas and several concerts, about the same level of activity since the company's performances were severely cut after essentially going dark in 2008-9 while its theater was renovated.
Much of the emotion at the demonstration was directed at Mr. Steel. ''We're looking at the potential death of this opera,'' said Tino Gagliardi, president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. ''Why George Steel doesn't understand this is totally beyond me.''
However, City Opera's problems began long before Mr. Steel's arrival, in early 2009. Those problems include years of operating with deficits, the effects of the global economic crisis, weak fund-raising coupled with unrealistic goals, the draw down of its endowment, and the turbulent and brief tenure of Mr. Steel's predecessor, Gerard Mortier. All those factors conspired to create a situation in which many feel that the New York City Opera of its glory days was gone forever.
''They should be playing funeral music,'' said Alan S. Gordon, the executive director of the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents singers, dancers and production staff members.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the New York City Opera brass section -- from left, Tom Hoyt, Dan Batchelder and Nick Schwartz -- playing amid protesters on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); PETITIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); BUDGETS (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); THEATER (56%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



12 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Moving To End a Freeze On Gas Drilling

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
The Cuomo administration is seeking to lift what has effectively been a moratorium in New York State on hydraulic fracturing, a controversial technique used to extract natural gas from shale, state environmental regulators said on Thursday.
The process would be allowed on private lands, opening New York to one of the fastest-growing -- critics would say reckless -- areas of the energy industry. It would be banned inside New York City's sprawling upstate watershed, as well as inside a watershed used by Syracuse, and in underground water sources used by other cities and towns. It would also be banned on state lands, like parks and wildlife preserves.
It will most likely take months before the policy becomes official. On Friday, the State Department of Environmental Conservation will release a long-awaited study of the process, widely known as hydrofracking. The report will include recommendations about how to proceed, and then there will be a lengthy period for public comments before a final determination can be made.
The agency detailed its recommendations in a statement it released on Thursday afternoon. 
''This report strikes the right balance between protecting our environment, watersheds and drinking water, and promoting economic development,'' said Joseph Martens, the commissioner of the department, a state agency controlled by the governor's office.
Hydrofracking has prompted intense protests from some environmental activists, who say it threatens the cleanliness of groundwater. The process involves injecting large volumes of water, mixed with sand and chemicals, deep into the ground to break up rock formations and release natural gas. It is legal in a number of other states, including Pennsylvania.
A primary concern among environmental groups has been the leftover wastewater that can be contaminated with toxic materials buried underground, including naturally occurring radioactive elements, or carcinogens like benzene. Proponents, on the other hand, focus on the potential benefits. Drilling for natural gas has been promoted because it burns more cleanly than coal and can reduce dependence on imported energy sources, and it can also bring jobs to economically battered regions of the state.
The statement released by the agency said hydrofracking would be permitted on private lands ''under rigorous and effective controls.''
Among the other restrictions, there would be no permits for drilling ''within 500 feet of a private water well or domestic-use spring,'' or within 2,000 feet of a public reservoir or drinking water supply without further study. The agency is also creating an advisory panel of environmental and industry experts to make recommendations on monitoring steps to mitigate potential hazards and explore fees that would be levied on the industry.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has generally had good relations with environmental groups; he shielded them from the kind of large cuts he dealt to hospitals and schools this year. He has also repeatedly called for the closure of the Indian Point nuclear plant in Westchester County, a popular move with advocacy groups. Last week, a top Cuomo administration official delivered that message directly to an executive of the plant's operator, Entergy, during the administration's first high-level meeting with the company.
The governor telegraphed his position about hydrofracking in a campaign document on energy policy he released last year. It referred to the potential development of the Marcellus Shale, a rock formation that stretches from southern New York State to Ohio and West Virginia.
''The economic potential from the Marcellus Shale could provide a badly needed boost to the economy of the Southern Tier and even many environmentalists agree we want to produce more domestic natural gas that reduces the need for environmentally damaging fuel sources such as coal,'' his campaign statement said, while adding, ''Existing watersheds are sacrosanct, and Andrew Cuomo would not support any drilling that would threaten the state's major sources of drinking water.''
In 2009, a previous version of the Department of Environmental Conservation's report, known as an environmental impact study, recommended allowing hydrofracking in the watersheds; environmental groups intensely criticized it. Gov. David A. Paterson vetoed a bill passed by the Legislature last year that would have formally banned hydrofracking, but effectively put a ban into place until further study was completed.
The recommendations come amid growing political and legal challenges to hydrofracking.
In May, Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman of New York filed a lawsuit against several federal agencies that are affiliated with the Delaware River Basin Commission, a multistate entity including New York that regulates the river basin, to block the commission from issuing final regulations on hydrofracking until a full environmental review could be conducted. This month, Mr. Schneiderman also subpoenaed five of the largest companies in the country that do natural gas drilling to determine whether they were accurately disclosing the risks of hydrofracking.
''Before any decisions on drilling are made, it is our responsibility to follow the facts and understand the public health and safety effects posed by potential natural gas development,'' Mr. Schneiderman said earlier this year.
Some environmental groups have mixed feelings.
''Until they make a commitment to updating the state's regulations and the legal framework, we would oppose them moving forward in New York,'' said David Gahl, policy director of Environmental Advocates of New York. But he said his group was not entirely opposed.
''Our position has always been that the state needs the right framework to govern this process,'' he said. ''We're not against driving a car, but a car needs to have seat belts, speed limits and cops on the road.''
Others are more firmly opposed.
Elizabeth Bouiss, a New York City schoolteacher who has a house in the Marcellus Shale area, has been an organizer of protests against hydrofracking.
''I've been concerned about it since I first heard about the possibility a couple of years ago,'' she said, adding, ''There's no safe way to put toxic chemicals into the ground and control them.''
Business groups see the issue as one that could boost the upstate economy, and the Republican-led State Senate -- whose majority caucus includes a number of upstate lawmakers -- has been supportive.
''Safe drilling for natural gas has the potential to create thousands of new jobs and millions of dollars in economic investment,'' the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, said in a statement.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg praised the plan, saying the governor and Commissioner Martens ''deserve an enormous amount of credit for protecting the unfiltered drinking water supplies of more than nine million New Yorkers, while increasing our ability to harness the benefits of New York's natural gas resources.''
Online Correction: June 30, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the recommendation of a previous version of the Department of Environmental Conservation's report. The report had recommended allowing, not prohibiting, hydrofracking in watersheds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo favors allowing hydraulic fracturing, a controversial technique used to extract natural gas from shale, but the process would be restricted to certain areas in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); AROMATICS (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); WILDLIFE (74%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); BENZENE (69%); CARCINOGENS (64%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (64%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



13 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Dow Gains 153 Points to End the Quarter Higher

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stock prices rose sharply on Thursday as easing concerns over European debt troubles and economic growth in the United States helped the Dow Jones industrial average end the second quarter with a modest gain.
The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose as the Federal Reserve's bond buying program ended and investors poured money into equities.
The Dow industrials closed up 152.92 points, or 1.25 percent, at 12,414.34. Although stocks tumbled for most of the month of June, a surge of 480 points this week helped give the Dow a gain of about 0.7 percent for the second quarter. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.23 points, or 1.01 percent, to 1,320.64, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 33.03 points, or 1.21 percent, at 2,773.52. Both the S.& P. and the Nasdaq were slightly lower for the quarter.
For the first half of 2010, the Dow gained 7.2 percent, the S.& P. rose 5 percent and the Nasdaq increased 4.6 percent.
Stocks climbed Thursday after a vote in the Greek Parliament enabled the country to begin cuts in spending and steps to raise revenue. German banks also agreed to take part in a plan to aid Greece by accepting longer maturities some of the Greek bonds that they hold.
Although analysts said the news had already been largely factored into stock prices, it was still enough to lift sentiment in Europe and the United States.
''This week's developments hardly mark an end to the economic crisis afflicting Europe, or Greece, for that matter,'' said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company. ''But at least the can has been kicked down the road,'' he wrote in an economic commentary.
In economic news, a barometer of manufacturing, the Chicago purchasing managers index, recorded an unexpectedly strong increase to 61.1 in June, above market expectations for a decline to 54, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.
Analysts saw the rise as an indication of stronger-than-expected new orders in the region, which includes the crucial automobile manufacturing sector.
Employment indicators remained weak, however, with initial claims for unemployment benefits at a still-high 428,000 in the latest week, according to a report from the Labor Department report.
Stocks in sectors including energy, materials, technology and industrial stocks, all pushed ahead by more than 1 percent on Thursday.
Exxon rose 1.4 percent to $81.38. The chip maker Intel gained 3.6 percent to $22.16. Caterpillar rose 3 percent to $106.46, and General Electric rose 1.6 percent to $18.86.
The Treasury's 10-year note declined for a fourth consecutive trading day Thursday as the Fed's bond buying program, known as QE2, drew to a close. The note fell 10/32, to 99 23/32, and the yield rose to 3.16 percent from 3.12 percent late Wednesday.
''There is a lot of concern about quantitative easing and who is going to be the buyer'' now that the Fed has withdrawn, said Laura LaRosa, director of fixed income at the investment firm Glenmede.
Economists and investors continue to debate how much the Fed's quantitative easing program helped the economy. But traders said it had been a boon for the stock market.
The S.& P. has risen more than 20 percent since last August when the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, first indicated in a speech that a new round of quantitative easing was likely to be adopted to help the economy.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (80%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



14 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate In Labor Talks Forces N.B.A. To Shut Down

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
Eighteen days after celebrating an electric championship series and a revitalizing season, the N.B.A. is shutting down -- perhaps for a very long time.
After two years of static negotiations on a new labor deal, N.B.A. owners voted Thursday to impose a lockout at midnight, sending the league into a bleak and uncertain offseason.
''Needless to say, we're disappointed that this is where we find ourselves,'' Adam Silver, the deputy commissioner, said after negotiators emerged from a three-hour bargaining session at a Manhattan hotel. 
Despite several meetings over the last few weeks, and modest movement on both sides, the parties remained entrenched in their positions, still separated by several billion dollars over the life of a new collective bargaining agreement. Over the last week of talks, each side accused the other of misrepresenting its proposals.
With no discernible momentum, league negotiators led by Commissioner David Stern and Peter Holt, the San Antonio Spurs' owner, recommended the lockout, which was authorized in a conference call with the N.B.A.'s labor committee on Thursday evening.
Negotiations will continue, however, with both sides sounding wary of moving the battle to the courts. Billy Hunter, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, said the union had no immediate plans to decertify -- a move that would serve as the precursor to an antitrust lawsuit.
''We're going to continue to negotiate, we've already agreed,'' Hunter said. ''That was sort of the closing agreement up there, that we would not let the imposition of a lockout stop us from meeting.''
The next session could come within the next two weeks, after the union receives additional financial documents from the league. In the meantime, all league business will cease.
Players and teams are barred from communicating with each other, even through intermediaries, like agents and family members. Paychecks and league-paid health care will be suspended. No trades or signings are allowed. Free agency, which would have begun Friday, will be delayed indefinitely while the owners and the players try to bridge their vast philosophical and economic differences.
The N.B.A. becomes the second major North American sports league to shut down this year, following the N.F.L., which is in the fourth month of a lockout.
From the beginning, N.B.A. owners have been pushing for a hard salary cap, shorter contracts and a reduction in salaries of about $750 million a year: a package that would be the most significant change to the system in 25 years. The players adamantly oppose a hard cap, preferring to keep the current soft-cap system, with modest changes to save the owners money.
Despite annual revenue of about $3.8 billion, N.B.A. officials say the existing system is broken, with 22 of 30 teams losing money, and leaguewide losses exceeding $300 million a year. Silver said the owners wanted a system in which ''all 30 teams could compete for a championship'' and have ''the opportunity to be profitable.''
The players union disputes the N.B.A.'s figures and objects to the inclusion of certain costs, like debt service and depreciation, in the loss estimates. The union contends that the league could solve most of the problem with greater revenue sharing.
The N.B.A. has enjoyed relative labor peace since 1999, when it played a 50-game schedule after a six-month lockout that nearly killed the season. It was the only time the N.B.A. had lost games to a labor stoppage. Back then, it took six weeks for the parties to meet once the lockout began, and the tone was acrimonious. This time, at least, the sides are open to meeting sooner, and talks remain ''extremely cordial,'' in Hunter's words. Still, Stern warned that there is no telling how long a lockout might last.
''I'm not scared,'' Stern said. ''I'm resigned to the potential damage that it can cause to our league'' and to the people who make their living in and around the N.B.A. He added: ''As we get deeper into it, these things have a capacity to take on a life of their own. You never can predict what will happen.''
The parties have hardly moved from their positions in the last 18 months of talks. They cannot even agree on how to characterize their respective proposals.
Last week, Stern said the league made a proposal that effectively guaranteed the players $2 billion a year over a 10-year agreement, with an average annual salary of $5 million. The union said that proposal would in fact result in a pay cut of about $8.2 billion over 10 years and would reduce the players' share of revenue to less than 40 percent, from the current 57 percent.
The union said its most recent proposal included a $500 million pay reduction over a five-year deal. Stern and Silver mocked that representation on Thursday, saying that the proposal merely reduced the players' demand for $12.7 billion (over five years) to $12.2 billion. That still was a net increase of $1.2 billion for the players, Stern said.
League and union officials are awaiting a National Labor Relations Board ruling on an unfair-labor practice complaint filed by the union in May, which could change the parameters of the discussion.
Meanwhile, both sides are keeping an eye on the N.F.L.'s case before the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis, which will decide whether the N.F.L. lockout continues or ends. That decision could affect the N.B.A.'s proceedings and the union's determination whether to decertify.
Although no games will be threatened for a few months, Derek Fisher, the president of the players union, said he empathized with disappointed fans.
''We don't like it either,'' he said of the lockout. ''It's something that our owners feel like is the best way to get, I guess, what they want. We don't agree.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Billy Hunter, the players union director, said the union had no plans for decertification, a precursor to an antitrust lawsuit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); LITIGATION (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN ANTONIO SPURS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



15 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: In Fight Against Trash Station, Upper East Side Cites Injustice

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Lorraine Johnson says she remembers the garbage trucks that lined up near her housing project on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, to unload trash at a marine sanitation station on the East River.
They made noise, spewed diesel fumes, attracted rats and smelled bad -- ''like dead bodies,'' she said.
''I have nightmares just thinking that there's a possibility that they might come back,'' said Ms. Johnson, 66, a disabled resident of the Stanley M. Isaacs Houses, at 94th Street and First Avenue.
The proximity of public housing figures prominently in a battle by Upper East Side residents to derail a city plan to reactivate a waste transfer station on the East River at 91st Street. In lawsuits, rallies and lobbying in the State Legislature, they argue that economically disadvantaged residents, already struggling, should not be saddled with additional problems. 
''How can you ignore the fact that the closest community is 80 percent minority?'' said Anthony Ard, president of the Gracie Point Community Council, a neighborhood group that was founded to fight the plan.
But city officials and environmental justice advocates counter that a housing project does not make a community disadvantaged. The Upper East Side is one of the city's wealthiest areas, they say, and the sanitation plan is intended to redress the disproportionate number of waste stations in poorer neighborhoods. None of the stations are in Manhattan.
''For the Upper East Side to claim the environmental justice legacy is just ridiculous on its face,'' said Gavin Kearney, director of environmental justice for New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, which represents the neighborhoods that hold most of the roughly 60 waste transfer stations. ''Any community will have low-income residents to a certain extent. A fair system is one that distributes this equitably.''
A review by The New York Times of census tracts within roughly a half-mile of the transfer stations confirms that most of them are in moderate- to extremely low-income neighborhoods. More than half the stations are in two areas in particular: the Greenpoint and Williamsburg sections of Brooklyn, and the South Bronx. About 73,000 residents with a median household income of $40,200 for 2009 live near the waste transfer stations in those two Brooklyn neighborhoods, the census figures show; 92,000 people with a median income of $21,000 live near the sites in the South Bronx.
By comparison, the neighborhood near the proposed East River transfer station, Yorkville in the Upper East Side, has about 47,000 residents with a median household income of $91,000.
''It shows that they generally don't build this sort of facility in high-income areas,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College who analyzed the census figures for The Times. ''Certain neighborhoods have certainly gotten more than their share.''
On average, people living near the waste stations had a median income in 2009 of about $40,000, compared with a city median of $50,000.
People interviewed in some of those areas said they were not wishing that other New Yorkers had their problems -- truck traffic, odors and emissions that have been linked to health issues like asthma. But fair is fair, they say.
''Where do people think the trash goes?'' said Misra Walker, 19, a resident of Hunts Point in the South Bronx, which has about more than a dozen transfer stations.
''They should collect waste, too, and we should try to support each other,'' she said of the Upper East Siders.
The waste stations are used to unload trash from garbage trucks and transfer it to other trucks that then take it for disposal outside the city, usually in landfills. Under a waste management plan developed in 2006, the city hopes eventually to rely more on barges and trains to haul garbage out of the city, with the goal of limiting air pollution. The plan also emphasizes having each borough directly manage more of its own waste.
An existing recyclables transfer station at West 59th Street on the Hudson River is expected at some point to start handling construction and demolition debris from Manhattan that is currently trucked to the Bronx and Brooklyn, for example.
In addition to the marine transfer station to be rebuilt on the Upper East Side, three other marine transfer stations are being reactivated in the Gowanus and Gravesend sections of Brooklyn and in College Point, Queens.
For decades, the marine stations loaded garbage onto barges that sailed to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island. But after the landfill closed in 2001, the city began depending more on privately owned land-based transfer stations and on trucks, which meant more air pollution. The expectation now is that the new marine stations will take almost half the trash from city garbage trucks that is handled by land-based stations, and that some of those will close.
City officials said a marine transport site was the most cost-effective and environmentally sound option. Harry Szarpanski, the Sanitation Department's deputy commissioner for long-term export, said that regulations were in place to ensure cleanliness and that the waste transported by barge would be moved in sealed containers.
That offers little comfort to opponents, including residents concerned about smelly truck traffic and air-safety watchdogs who say a station under construction near La Guardia Airport will attract scavenging birds and jeopardize aircraft safety.
On the Upper East Side, neighbors point out that the dumping trucks will arrive on a ramp that intersects the Asphalt Green athletic complex, possibly putting the safety of people using its playground and playing field at risk. They said that because of an increase in the number of residents, the streets had grown significantly busier since the marine station closed in the late 1990s.
Their efforts to stop the station include two pending lawsuits and a bill in the Assembly that would ban operations of any marine waste transfer station within 800 feet of a public housing project in cities of one million or more residents.
Critics say the bill was specifically tailored to block the Yorkville station and ignores poor state residents who do not live in public housing. But its chief sponsor, Assemblyman Micah Z. Kellner of the Upper East Side, said he wanted to give residents of the Stanley M. Isaacs Houses and John Haynes Holmes Towers, another housing project in the area, a voice.
''We should be seeking environmental justice, but this isn't it,'' he said of the waste management plan.
Several environmental groups have described the city's approach as evenhanded. Nonetheless, said Marcia Bystryn, executive director of the New York League of Conservation Voters, the dispute underscored the need for a broader debate about the vast amount of trash churned out in the city and about generating less, recycling more and finding ways to produce energy from local waste.
''All of these things need to be talked about,'' Ms. Bystryn said.
But at the end of the day, she and others said, there will always be trash.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fredrick Arbuckle, 9, and Dale Douglas, 10, making posters this week before a rally. The city wants each borough to manage more of its own waste. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) The city is seeking to reactivate a waste transfer station on the East River at 91st Street, prompting protests from residents on the Upper East Side. (A16)
The Stanley M. Isaacs Houses, blocks away from the station. Residents say they fear the possibility of noise and diesel fumes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) GRAPHICS: The Demographics of Garbage: New York City is proposing new waste transfer stations in some majority-white areas to redress the disproportionate number of stations in low-income minority communities. The existing stations are in areas where median income levels in 2009 were below the city's median of $50,000. (Sources: Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College
 New York City Sanitation Department) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (85%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LOBBYING (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); CENSUS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); LITIGATION (69%); CITIES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



16 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Brandeis Settles Art Sale Suit

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Effectively ending a two-year dispute, Brandeis University announced on Thursday that it had settled a lawsuit brought by supporters of the university's Rose Art Museum who went to court to prevent Brandeis from exploring a sale of the museum's art works in order to shore up the university's finances. 
In January 2009, during the depths of the economic recession, Brandeis's trustees voted to ''transition'' the museum -- founded in 1961 and one of the most important collections in the New England, with works by de Kooning, Warhol, Lichtenstein and others -- into a teaching center and gallery, and to conduct ''an orderly sale or other disposition'' of its works to raise money. Later that year Brandeis backed away from the decision, saying that no works would be sold in the immediate future and that the building would remain open as an art study center, but not as a public museum. Still, the action prompted widespread criticism, and four of the museum's benefactors, Jonathan Lee, Meryl Rose, Lois Foster and Gerald Fineberg, sued to stop any art sales. The Massachusetts attorney general's office also began an investigation of the propriety of the Brandeis plan.
In announcing the settlement that ends the lawsuit and the attorney general's investigation, the university said it has ''no aim, plan, design, strategy or intention to sell any artwork donated to or purchased by'' Brandeis for the museum and that the Rose museum will remain a ''university art museum open to the public.'' -Fred Lawrence, who became the university's president in January, said in an interview that he would not pass judgment on the decision of his predecessor, Jehuda Reinharz, to explore a sale. ''I think it was a dire economic time,'' he said, adding, ''I'm very grateful two and a half years later to be standing here at a different time, in a different set of circumstances.'' Mr. Lawrence said the university will conduct a search for a ''world-class'' director for the museum, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary later this year, and wants to re-establish the Rose as a centerpiece of Brandeis's cultural and educational life. A plan announced last year to work with Sotheby's to find ways to make money by lending works from the collection remains an option, Mr. Lawrence said, ''but what we're really focused on is the future of the Rose.''
Mr. Lee, a former museum trustee who was among the plaintiffs in the suit, said that while the settlement does not say that the museum will categorically never sell works, ''it would be awfully difficult for them to change their minds at this point.''
''I feel very good about it,'' he said of the agreement. ''In fact, I'm tickled pink. It preserves this collection.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



17 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Two Rulings Find Cuts In Pensions Permissible

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Judges in Colorado and Minnesota have dismissed court challenges by retired public workers whose pensions had been cut -- developments that may embolden other states and cities to use pension reductions as a tool to help balance their budgets.
The two lawsuits sought to reverse reductions in the cost-of-living adjustments that Colorado and Minnesota had previously promised to retired public workers. Generally speaking, once lawmakers have agreed to provide certain pension benefits to public workers, it is difficult, if not impossible, to roll them back because of protective language in state laws and constitutions and years of court interpretations. 
Public pensions are considered so bulletproof that when the city of Vallejo, Calif., recently restructured its finances in bankruptcy, it cut other costs but left worker pensions intact.
The two court decisions, issued Wednesday, suggest that the legal tide may be changing for public pensioners. The political tide has already turned in some places -- in addition to Colorado and Minnesota, South Dakota and New Jersey have also cut cost-of-living benefits for current retirees, and other states have been awaiting legal guidance before doing the same.
In their court filings, retirees in Colorado and Minnesota had argued that their benefits were contractual in nature, and therefore protected by state and federal constitutional language barring the impairment of contracts.
However, in his ruling dismissing the Minnesota case, Judge Gregg E. Johnson of the state's Second Judicial District Court wrote that the retirees in that state ''have not met their burden to show unconstitutionality beyond a reasonable doubt.''
Judge Robert S. Hyatt, a district judge in Denver, offered a different line of thinking, noting that the 2010 state law that cut the benefits did not actually allow the state to remove money from the pension fund and use it to balance the budget.
Rather, he wrote, the law required the state to send even more money to the pension fund at the same time that it required retirees to give up part of their benefit, ''in order to create a larger pool of investable funds and thus provide for sustainable pension benefits in the future.''
He also drew a distinction between a base pension and a cost-of-living adjustment, often called a COLA. He suggested that the inflation adjustment could be reduced, but the base pension could not.
William T. Payne, a lawyer in Pittsburgh whose firm represented the retirees in both cases, said his clients were studying their options and might appeal.
Another lawyer at the firm, Stephen M. Pincus, said in a statement: ''Under the courts' reasoning, the legislatures could eliminate the entire COLA and the retirees would have no recourse.''
There has not yet been a decision in a third lawsuit challenging a cost-of-living adjustment cutback in South Dakota.
The three cases have been closely watched as bellwethers. Many states and cities have been trying to rein in the cost of their pension systems, but the easiest changes -- like closing the pension plans to new members and making fixed contributions to 401(k) accounts instead -- can take decades to produce any savings. Cuts in COLAs, by contrast, produce big savings immediately.
Mr. Pincus said it was not clear whether the two new rulings would affect the thinking of officials in other states. ''Trial court decisions are not binding on courts in their own states, let alone other states,'' he said. He added that appellate courts in other states, including California and West Virginia, had found that cost-of-living adjustments could not be reduced.
Cost-of-living adjustments are found primarily in the public sector, and in the past, states and cities have prided themselves on the practice of shielding their retirees from inflation. Very few companies offer pensions with cost-of-living adjustments. Social Security benefits are adjusted for inflation, but the adjustments can go both up and down.
Ever since the stock market crash of 2008 wiped out many people's retirement savings, officials have had a hard time persuading taxpayers of the virtues of covering the cost of inflation-adjusted pensions, which typical taxpayers no longer get themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); JUDGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); EVIDENCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



18 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: An Artist Who Makes Much Out of Very Little

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The less-is-more tradition in American art is rich and varied. It stretches from the glorious frugalities of Shaker furniture and Amish quilts to the sleek orthodox Minimalism of Donald Judd's box sculptures and Agnes Martin's horizontal-stripe paintings. And it also accommodates the modest, plain-spoken sculptures and wall pieces of the artist B. Wurtz.
Cobbled together from carefully selected common objects and materials -- scraps of wood and wire, plastic grocery bags, food packaging, buttons, shoelaces and the occasional porcelain sink leg -- Mr. Wurtz's efforts are currently the subject of a wryly beautiful, morally invigorating retrospective at Metro Pictures in Chelsea. 
The show has been organized with Feature Inc., Mr. Wurtz's longtime New York gallery, and expertly chosen and installed by Matthew Higgs, the ever-catalytic director of the alternative space White Columns in Greenwich Village. Covering more than four decades, with 64 works, Mr. Wurtz's show may be, in its own quiet and eccentric way, one of the high points of the summer, if not the entire year. It is at least a refreshing palate cleanser after a season distinguished by ever more alarming varieties of conspicuous consumption: skyrocketing prices for newbie artists, look-alike blue-chip collections and artworks relying with increasing ostentation on large-scale, expensive materials and costly techniques. (When in doubt, cast it in bronze.)
At Metro the visitor is confronted by something completely different: an example of an artist making much out of very little, committing acts of ingenious recycling in which existing materials and artistic thought are brought into an unusual kind of mutually enhancing alignment.
An untitled work from 1981 consists of a series of old records (45, LP and 10-inch) teetering on thin wood dowels stuck into wonderful pinwheel-like bases, also made of wood. The piece is at once flatfooted and magical, something like a juggling act without a juggler. Nearby, ''Bunch #2,'' from 1995, implies a small, leafy tree by festooning wire branches with dozens of plastic shopping bags. The inverted bags, filled with air, have a gentle, plumelike softness.
These works belong to the crowded category of assemblage or found-object art, but also transcend it by means of a clarity best described as classical. We never lose sight of what they're made of, even while being seduced by the larger, always suggestive effect. And Mr. Wurtz's efforts constantly question the way expensive materials and bravura skills affect our experience of art objects by effortlessly demonstrating how to hold our interest while doing without both.
With this retrospective, Metro Pictures is having something of an anti-Gagosian Gagosian moment. It is a gallery acting like a museum, but rather than featuring Picasso, Lichtenstein or another artist whom most museums would kill to show, it is casting the spotlight on Mr. Wurtz, who is unknown beyond the precincts of the art world and does not even loom large within them.
Born in Pasadena, Calif., in 1948 and educated at the University of California, Berkeley, and the California Institute of the Arts, in Valencia, Mr. Wurtz has exhibited steadily since the 1980s. But he has never had a solo show in a museum or been included in a Whitney Biennial.
His very name is cryptic and a little baffling -- less rather than more -- and almost a kind of joke. (It swerves enticingly close to ''R. Mutt,'' the name with which Marcel Duchamp, whose ready-mades figure in Mr. Wurtz's artistic DNA, signed his famous urinal.) I assumed for years that B. Wurtz was a woman rather than a man -- a man who, it turns out, likes manifesting his feminist sympathies with a name that avoids gender specificity. Mr. Wurtz's given name is William; he goes by Bill and also answers to B.
The earlier works at Metro are endearing, Fluxus-flavored art jokes. A 1973 piece consists of two small wood boxes, each labeled in the artist's slightly awkward cursive: ''Unpleasant Private Thoughts'' and ''Secret Words.'' It might be a bit of juvenilia by the punning, woodworking sculptor H. C. Westermann. In a piece from the same period, a block of wood has been enfolded in canvas, provided with a sturdy wire handle worthy of a bucket, sparsely adorned with patches of red, blue, yellow and green paint and labeled ''Painting.'' It could easily be by the cartoonist and sculptor Saul Steinberg.
But soon wordplay gives way to works that delicately balance the aesthetic experience of abstract form against the easy familiarity of everyday things. This is exemplified by a series of small tabletop pieces from 1976 that suspend delicate sheets of plastic printed with red or yellow grids or green leaves from little goal posts of wire embedded in wood bases. The pieces of plastic have been cut from things like carrot bags, but their presentation invites -- and sustains -- intense appreciation; they might be precious bits of ancient papyrus or textile.
This balancing, which continues in different forms throughout the remainder of the show, is the result of the utter transparency with which Mr. Wurtz structures his pieces. Every detail in a Wurtz -- every knot of string or thread, every kink in a wire or a shoestring, every wood base or pedestal -- figures in its final effect. He hints as much in a boatlike tabletop sculpture from 1994 built of small cubes and slabs of wood that is titled ''Twenty-Four Screws.'' The work's multiple layers make it difficult to keep track of all this hardware, which may explain the full-disclosure title.
Mr. Wurtz plays on the endless suggestiveness of existing forms. In one wall piece, a blue grocery bag hangs, in flattened, unused condition, from a horizontal length of wire, evoking a tank top and thus a human torso. Several recent works imaginatively reuse the red or green plastic net sleeves that normally encase tomatoes and other vegetables. Hung from strings attached to wires that sprout from low-lying wood pedestals, the nets simultaneously evoke lampshades and flowers closing up for the night, an overlap of human and natural design that is typical of Mr. Wurtz's art. The skidlike pedestals are themselves small wonders of layering and proportion; they have an Egyptian economy and, in their bare-bones, unembellished way, echo Cy Twombly's sculptures.
Against the profligacy of so much of today's art world, Mr. Wurtz's work reads as a quiet refusal, a rebellious act of abstinence that results in its own kind of fullness. His precedents include Alexander Calder's wood-and-wire sculptures; the collages of Arthur Dove, Anne Ryan and Ray Johnson; the visionary refinement of the painter Myron Stout -- all exemplars of modest but resonant understatement.
Again and again, Mr. Wurtz's work invites us to think about what we look at, and moreover what we look for, when we look at art. Then it gives us something slightly different, something equally visual, gratifying and, above all, charged with the deliberation and focus that are the essence of art.
''B. Wurtz: Works, 1970-2011'' is on view through Aug. 5 at Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea; (212) 206-7100, metropictures.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Works by B. Wurtz: above, ''Untitled, 2006'' includes a porcelain sink leg and plastic bags
above right, ''Untitled, 2001,'' shoe buttons and laces
 and below, ''Untitled, 1981,'' old records and wooden dowels. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); QUILTS & QUILTING (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); FOOD PACKAGING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



19 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Christie Vetoes $1.3 Billion in Spending and a Sharp Tax Increase on High Earners

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
TRENTON -- Gov. Chris Christie on Thursday vetoed more than $1.3 billion in spending, much of it for schools, and struck down a sharp tax increase on high-income people in a sweeping rejection of attempts by Democrats in the Legislature to assert some control over the state budget.
On the final day of the fiscal year, with a government shutdown looming at midnight if a new spending plan were not completed, Mr. Christie, a Republican, capped the months-long budget process with a demonstration of both the broad powers of New Jersey's governor, and his willingness to use them more aggressively than his predecessors did. 
The governor vetoed some fiscal bills outright, including one that would have imposed a ''millionaire's tax,'' and he used his line-item veto authority to reduce or eliminate dozens of appropriations that the Legislature had inserted. The result is a $29.7 billion budget -- less, in inflation-adjusted terms, than the $29.4 billion spent over the past year, and about $5 billion below what the state spent in 2007-8.
With Democrats in control of both the Assembly and Senate, but short of the two-third majorities needed to override vetoes, the governor's actions are likely to be final.
Mr. Christie, speaking at a news conference in the State House, said that Democrats had chosen ''to revert to the same fantasy, unrealistic budgeting that has plagued Trenton for years and is the reason New Jersey got into fiscal trouble in the first place.''
''I wish I could be Santa Claus sometimes, too,'' he said. ''But I was sent to Trenton to be the adult supervision.''
The budget vetoes come a week after the Legislature passed -- over bitter opposition from labor unions and most Democratic lawmakers -- a bill greatly increasing what state and local government employees must pay for health care and pension benefits and reducing their collective bargaining rights. Together, the benefits bill and the budget give Mr. Christie another round of major victories in his drive to shrink government spending and improve the state's shaky long-term financial footing.
Democrats charged that the governor favored the wealthy over everyone else, and wanted to feed his growing national standing among conservatives.
''The governor would rather jeopardize the well-being of the people who elected him to office in order to score points with the national conservative media,'' said Sheila Y. Oliver, the Assembly speaker.
Last year, the governor reduced state aid to school districts by $820 million, to about $8 billion; dozens of the most affluent districts stopped receiving any money from Trenton. But this year, the state Supreme Court ruled that the state had violated earlier rulings requiring heavy support for 31 poor, urban districts.
The new budget adds almost $850 million in school aid, including $447 million for those 31 districts, to satisfy the court ruling. But Mr. Christie vetoed an additional $412 million for schools that the Legislature had approved on Monday.
Other major items he vetoed included $50 million to help cities short of cash reverse or avert layoffs of police officers, and wording the Legislature inserted to try to prevent the governor from changing Medicaid eligibility rules. In one of the more politically charged items, he eliminated $7.5 million for women's health clinics, the subject of a battle with Democrats that has lasted more than a year.
The Legislature voted to expand two cherished Democratic programs, a tax credit for the working poor and property tax rebates for senior citizens, but Mr. Christie vetoed both items.
Democrats are predicting that those actions, like the vetoes for police and schools, will make potent attack lines for them in this year's legislative elections.
Over the last few days, there was heated debate among the governor's advisors over whether to rely on his line-item veto power, or to use what is called a conditional veto, which would have forced a government shutdown. With a conditional veto, a bill is rejected unless the Legislature makes specific changes demanded by the governor, or overrides the veto.
Lawmakers said it would be hard to round up the votes to make the changes -- even some Republicans objected -- and impossible to override, leaving matters in limbo.
''I was sorely tempted, but reason prevailed,'' Mr. Christie said, of using a conditional veto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); LITIGATION (61%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



20 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Administration Closing 7 Prisons, 2 in New York City

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
The Cuomo administration, following through on one of the most contentious cutbacks included in the state budget, said Thursday that it would close seven of New York's dozens of prisons, including a facility in the Bronx and one on Staten Island.
The five others are in upstate New York, where prisons are a major source of jobs and many communities have waited anxiously for months to learn from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo which would be closed. 
The prisons to be shut down include three medium-security facilities: Arthur Kill Correctional Facility on Staten Island, Oneida Correctional Facility in Rome and Mid-Orange Correctional Facility in Warwick.
The governor also named four minimum-security prisons to be closed: Fulton Correctional Facility in the Bronx, Camp Georgetown in Madison County, Summit Shock Incarceration Correctional Facility in Schoharie County and Buffalo Correctional Facility.
Notably, Mr. Cuomo spared several large prisons in the northernmost section of the state, where lawmakers had warned of possible economic ruin if the prisons were closed, and he did not shut down any maximum-security prisons, which have no surplus of beds.
Mr. Cuomo, facing a $10 billion budget gap upon taking office, has made closing prisons and juvenile detention centers a key goal from the start, saying in his State of the State address in January that ''an incarceration program is not an employment program.'' The State Office of Children and Family Services announced in early June that it would close four youth detention facilities and downsize four others.
The governor also spread the closings throughout the state, to districts represented by both Democratic and Republican lawmakers, fulfilling a promise he made during budget negotiations to placate Senate Republicans, who worried that their upstate districts would bear the brunt.
Over all, the closings will allow the prison system, which currently houses about 56,000 inmates, to shed about 3,800 of its 64,000 beds.
The governor's office said closing the seven prisons, which together operate at about 70 percent capacity, and moving the inmates to other facilities would save $184 million over the next two years.
''The state's prison system has been too inefficient and too costly, with far more capacity than what is needed to secure the state's inmate population and ensure the public's safety,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''This plan is the result of very careful and detailed analysis and deliberation.''
The announcement was met with relief in communities that were spared and consternation in those that were not. Altogether, the seven prisons employ 1,531 people, according to the State Department of Correctional Services.
A spokesman for the governor said some, if not most, of those workers would be offered transfers to other prisons, but he would not say how many.
Donn Rowe, the president of the New York State Correctional Officers and Police Benevolent Association, which lobbied against Mr. Cuomo's plans, said the union was very disappointed in the governor's decision.
''As we have stated for months, the closure of any prison in New York State represents a significant threat to the integrity and safety of the New York State prison system,'' Mr. Rowe said in a statement. ''Today's announcement represents the largest single closing in the state's history and we are obviously very concerned with the impacts and implementation of these closures.''
J. Soffiyah Elijah, the executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, a nonprofit prison-monitoring and advocacy group, praised Mr. Cuomo. But she worried about the decision to close the prisons near Buffalo and in the Bronx, which have work-release programs, and Arthur Kill on Staten Island, because it is one of the relatively few large facilities in the New York City area.
''The maintaining and strengthening of family ties is so very important,'' she said. ''Anything that could have a negative impact on successful re-entry we have to all have a concern about.''
The state's prison population has dropped sharply in recent years, due in part to the Legislature's enactment of laws allowing early release for nonviolent offenders and its dismantling of the state's strict 1970s-era drug laws.
As part of the budget agreement, lawmakers agreed to allow the governor to have final say in deciding which prisons would close. Mr. Cuomo, for his part, set aside $50 million in economic development financing that will be available to the communities affected by the closings, along with tax credits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fulton Correctional Facility in the Bronx is one of four minimum-security prisons that will be closed by the Cuomo administration. Three medium-security facilities will also be shut down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); FAMILY SERVICES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHILD WELFARE (64%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (61%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



21 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: School Head At Brearley Is Resigning

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
The head of the Brearley School in Manhattan, one of the nation's most highly regarded private schools for girls, has abruptly resigned, according to letters that were sent to families and alumni from the school's board of trustees. 
Dr. Stephanie J. Hull, who has been at the helm at Brearley for eight years, will take a sabbatical due to her for the next year while a search committee looks for a replacement. No interim leader has been named.
It was unclear what precipitated Dr. Hull's decision, which took some parents of students at the Upper East Side School and community members by surprise.
In a letter to families, Dr. Hull said the school had reached the next phase of its development, requiring a new leader.
''Although it is short notice for such a departure, I am going to accept this offer so that I can make use of this time to reflect and then to explore other opportunities,'' she said.
Calls to Dr. Hull last night were not returned. A school spokeswoman could not be reached for comment
Alan K. Jones, the head of Brearley's board of trustees, praised Dr. Hull's accomplishments, including leading the largest capital campaign in the school's history, making the student body and faculty more diverse, increasing financial aid and acquiring properties for the school's expansion.
''She has accomplished all this in the most financially distressed environment in two generations in New York City and indeed the world, steering the school to greater heights despite those almost unprecedented financial and economic challenges,'' he said.
Brearley, on East 83rd Street, which enrolls about 700 students from kindergarten through 12th grade, is considered one of the most academically challenging schools in the city. Annual tuition is more than $35,000.
Dr. Hull, who earned a doctorate from Harvard, was Brearley's 14th head of school and the first black woman to hold the position. She earned $486,749 for the 2009-2010 school year, according to tax records.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



22 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 6173 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise listed. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/arts.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Quilts: Masterworks from the American Folk Art Museum' (through Oct. 16) This exhibition celebrating quilts from the museum's collection reveals the optical vitality of these eminently pictorial textiles. Ranging across a variety of patterns and techniques and nearly two centuries, the examples here effortlessly combine personal and national histories with rigorous down-home formalism, all the while making brilliant use of available, often humble, fabrics. The various geometric ins and outs, color contrasts and boldly scaled compositions confirm that quilts, like Navajo blankets, are among the earliest abstract art in post-conquest North America. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
American Folk Art Museum: 'Super Stars: Quilts From the American Folk Art Museum' (through Sept. 25) In conjunction with the exhibition of quilts at the main museum, its branch is featuring 20 quilts in which stars figure in some way, whether as pieced-together geometric forms or as little tufts of thread that suggest a distant galaxy. American Folk Art Museum Lincoln Square Branch, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith) 
American Folk Art Museum: 'Eugene Von Bruenchenhein: Freelance Artist -- Poet and Sculptor -- Inovator -- Arrow maker and Plant man -- Bone artifacts constructor -- Photographer and Architect -- Philosopher' (through Oct. 9) Whether photographing his wife as a sweetly chaste pinup girl; fashioning plant forms from scrounged clay or little thrones from salvaged turkey bones; or making delicate ballpoint-pen drawings or hallucinatory paintings rife with intimations of exotic undersea or sci-fi worlds, this self-taught, self-proclaimed multitasker (as made clear in the show's subtitle) never wavered in his sense of his own greatness. Mounted 27 years after his death, his first American museum survey doesn't quite do him justice and especially shortchanges the paintings, but it presents the fruits of his ceaseless labors with a clarity that makes them feel of a piece, and like a gift. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
- El Museo del Barrio: 'El Museo's Bienal: The (S) Files 2011' (through Jan. 8) Because of a long renovation of El Museo del Barrio's Fifth Avenue building, four years have passed since the museum's last biannual survey of new Latino, Caribbean and Latin American art. As if to make up for lost time, the new edition is the biggest so far, including work by 75 artists spread over seven shows in four boroughs, with the main event at El Museo itself. The ''S'' this year is for ''Street,'' which covers everything from graffiti to junk sculpture to painted cityscapes, and some of the work has problems with focus. Yet taking the street as a subject opens the possibility to at least think about other subjects, like money for artists, and the lack of it. Other segments of the show now on display are at Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, Queens, and Lehman College Art Gallery in the Bronx; a Brooklyn show is scheduled to start in November. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Holland Cotter)
Guggenheim Museum: 'The Hugo Boss Prize 2010: Hans-Peter Feldmann' (through Nov. 2) Mr. Feldmann, the septuagenarian German artist who was the surprise pick for the Boss Prize honors, has decided to exhibit his prize money in the form of 100,000 $1 bills, pinned to the wall of one of the Guggenheim's Tower galleries. What sounds on paper like a conceptual stunt or a riff on Warholian materialism becomes overpoweringly physical in person, thanks to the smell of the used bills and the traces of their circulation. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Guggenheim Museum: 'Lee Ufan: Marking Infinity' (through Sept. 28) This five-decade retrospective fills the museum with about 90 works in a Zen-Minimalist, be-here-now vein by a Korean artist who lives in Paris and Japan. Sculptures consist of ordinary, pumpkin-size boulders juxtaposed with sheets and slabs of dark, glossy steel. Paintings made of wide brush strokes executed in gridded order on raw canvas exemplify tension between action and restraint. In its always near-perfect composure, Mr. Lee's art teeters perilously between art and decor. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Ken Johnson)
- International Center of Photography: 'Elliott Erwitt: Personal Best' (through Aug. 28) Like Henri Cartier-Bresson, Mr. Erwitt seeks ''the decisive moment,'' an instant in real time when people, animals or objects appear before the camera in surprising, funny and illuminating ways. The Henny Youngman of photographic one-liners, he delivers visual humor with such economy and grace that it is easy to overlook just how excellent an artist he is. This show presents more than 100 of his favorite images from the past seven decades. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)
Jewish Museum: 'Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore' (through Sept. 25) This exhibition samples the extraordinary trove of European art amassed by two American spinsters in the first half of the 20th century, work now owned by the Baltimore Museum of Art. Although some major collection highlights are absent, the pieces here -- presented in the order of acquisition -- generate a compelling portrait of the Cones as collectors. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Jewish Museum: 'Maira Kalman: Various Illuminations (of a Crazy World)' (through July 31) Like her fellow New Yorker magazine contributors Ed Koren and Roz Chast, Ms. Kalman offers gently humorous cartoon commentary on the trials and tribulations of modern metropolitan life. Ranging in style from faux-naive eccentricity to suave realism, the more than two decades worth of drawings and paintings on paper in this career survey make for an entertaining if not deeply provocative experience. With a flea market-like installation of nondescript objects from her personal collection, however, she tries too hard to be amazingly original. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Andean Tunic, 400 B.C.E.-1800 C.E.' (through Sept. 18) This small show celebrates the festive yet functional garments woven south of the equator. To the modern eye, they're wearable paintings; lovers of Keith Haring and Elizabeth Murray will find much to admire. So will anyone interested in the complex relationships among art, clothing, ritual and power. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Anthony Caro on the Roof' (through Oct. 30) No one in the 1960s produced groovier abstract sculpture than the British artist Anthony Caro, five of whose heavy metal assemblages grace the Met's Rooftop Garden. But only one of these works has that startling, newborn feeling. Sporting a new coat of shiny, taxicab-yellow paint, ''Midday'' (1960) has the look of a jaunty, industrial dinosaur. The others, dating from 1968 to 2010, show a development toward an increasingly conservative, ponderous monumentality. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty' (through Aug. 7) A triumph for this British fashion designer -- who died at 40, by his own hand, last year -- and for the curator Andrew Bolton of the Met's Costume Institute, this career retrospective is ethereal and gross, graceful and manipulative, and poised on a line where fashion turns into something else. The operatic spectacle is pushed along by soundtrack of wind, Handel and orgiastic moans, and has a holographic image of Kate Moss spinning like a moth in a flame at the center. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Night Vision: Photography After Dark' (through Sept. 18) It wasn't until the gelatin dry-plate process was introduced in the late 1880s that exposure time was lowered enough for photographs to be taken regularly after dark. Alfred Stieglitz was among the first to photograph New York at night. His work is shown alongside Berenice Abbott's spectral ''Nightview, New York'' from 1932, taken from the window of a skyscraper; Brassai's nocturnal views of Paris; and Weegee's high-contrast picture of a crime scene. Diane Arbus, Bill Brandt, Robert Frank, Garry Winogrand and Kohei Yoshiyuki are among the other artists included in this modest, lovely show of 40 black-and-white photographs drawn from the museum's collection, which stops a couple of decades short of the present. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Poetry in Clay: Korean Buncheong Ceramics from Leeum, Samsung Museum of Art' (through Aug. 14) This beautiful exhibition presents bottles, vases, bowls and dishes made by 15th- and 16th-century Korean artisans. In shades of gray, from creamy and opalescent off-whites to deep, warm blacks, the anonymous craftsmen covered vessels with loosely rendered images of flora and fauna and fine-grained patterns of dots and tiny blossoms. These infectiously lively works look as if they'd been made not centuries but only decades ago. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective' (through Aug. 28) Few artists have pushed drawing to such sculptural and even architectural extremes as Mr. Serra, so it makes sense that his adamantine pursuit of the medium, surveyed in an installation that he largely designed himself, is not quite like anything seen at the Met before. There are moments of off-putting starkness on Mr. Serra's side and some of the usual architectural infelicities on the Met's, but as a demonstration of this august institution's willingness to engage with genuinely radical, physically unsettling art of recent vintage, the show is cause for hope. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
MoMA PS 1: 'Laurel Nakadate: Only the Lonely' (through Aug. 8) Laurel Nakadate might be on the cusp of a great new career. She is known for disconcerting, sad and sexually provocative videos that she enlisted older, worse-for-wear men to participate in, but in the past three years she has made two feature-length films. Included in this enthralling survey of her 10-year career, they focus with lingering, heart-aching care on adolescent girls, lost souls looking for love and only getting into trouble. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
- MoMA PS1: Ryan Trecartin: 'Any Ever' (through Sept. 3) This game-changing show of seven related videos, viewed amid eccentric seating arrangements procured mostly from Ikea, reflects the combined imagination of a supertalented young artist and his band of merry, cross-dressing pranksters. The results teeter giddily at the intersection of art, reality television and social networking; forge a new integration of video and installation art, not to mention a blend of actual life and animation undreamt of by Walt Disney; and evince an aspirational faith in the potential of uninhibited self-expression, both individual and collective, to counter the mounting materialism of everyday life. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens; (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Smith)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'The Age of Elegance: The Joan Taub Ades Collection' (through Aug. 28) This small but engrossing exhibition presents about three dozen works dating from the mid-17th to the late 19th centuries by European artists, each in his own way a draftsman of consummate skill. Some names, like Boucher and Millais, are familiar; most will be known only to art historical specialists. Ranging from postcard to laptop size, including portraiture, still-life and mythological scenes, they exemplify the fine but now endangered art of drawing at its best. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Johnson)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Fashion: Dress in the Art of Medieval France and the Netherlands' (through Sept. 4) Medieval illuminations -- so rich in narrative, embellishment and religious expression -- can display sartorial trends that can help experts date manuscripts and discern the subtleties of a figure's status or character. There are many examples here, as well as mannequins in full-scale model attire -- say, a splendid hunting ensemble of gold-embroidered blue velvet and lilac wool felt for the men, and for the women, a princessy gown of yellow silk trimmed in black crushed velvet, accessorized by a turret. This lively show will teach you to scrutinize centuries-old manuscripts as you would a style magazine. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Arts and Design: 'Otherworldly: Optical Delusions and Small Realities' (through Sept. 18) In the age of the flat screen, a show about the diorama sounds charmingly naive. Yet ''Otherworldly'' circles back to the two-dimensional image in ways that feel very sophisticated. A good number of the show's more than 40 artists build model homes, cities and landscapes mainly to photograph them. At times the exhibition feels like a Hollywood film-studio tour in miniature. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Access to Tools: Publications From the Whole Earth Catalog, 1968-1974' (through July 26) Brainchild of the visionary techno-hippie artist Steward Brand, the Whole Earth Catalog did for counterculture youth in the '60s what the Sears catalog did for children of the Great Depression and what Google does for people of the Internet age: provide a way for ordinary citizens to connect with and make use of the global economy. This modest but stirring time capsule of an exhibition presents various editions of the catalog, along with a mind-expanding array of books, magazines and ephemera that influenced or exemplified its holistic mission. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Francis Alys: A Story of Deception' (through Aug. 1) This possibly premature, hit-and-miss survey of the quixotic, politically aware yet obstinately poetic art of this Belgian artist, who has lived in Mexico since 1986, whipsaws a visitor between engagement and boredom, serious consideration and dismissal. In the show, at MoMA and its PS 1 site in Queens (closes Sept. 12), the best works are videos, but the split exhibition is garnished, you might say, with sometimes appealing paintings and sculptures and also dulled with extensive backup materials: studies, notes, texts and newspaper clippings pertaining to most of the works on view. Too often the result confirms this museum's blind faith in the wan, cerebral machinations of late-late-late Conceptualism. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
- Museum of Modern Art: 'German Expressionism: The Graphic Impulse' (through July 11) MoMA's largest survey of Germany's first Modern art movement is infused with an urgent, crackling energy, by turns joyful, satiric, grim and tragic. Presenting some 250 works -- most of them little-seen prints -- it celebrates one of the 20th century's most brutally effective, socially responsive unions of medium and message and shakes up the (understandable) conventional wisdom that the museum is almost terminally Francophile. While lavish, the show reveals but a fraction of the museum's 3,200 Expressionist works on paper, all of which are newly available for digital viewing at moma.org/explore/multimedia/interactives/161. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'I Am Still Alive: Politics and Everyday Life in Contemporary Drawing' (through Sept. 19) This show of contemporary drawings (most acquired since 2005) is anchored by a group of telegrams sent by the Japanese artist On Kawara to friends and associates; each one bears the message ''I am still alive.'' The artists seem to be in a permanent state of wariness and suspicion, which is sometimes the result of political instability and at other times more innate. But their efforts to process matters of life and death in short bursts of creative activity feel very of the moment. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Boris Mikhailov: Case History' (through Sept. 5) This exhibition's visceral photographs of homeless people in Ukraine are not for the squeamish. The 19 photos, large-format examples from a series of more than 400 images produced in the late 1990s, portray people in grungy rooms or in wintery outdoor sites naked or pulling aside their clothes to expose parts of their bodies. Thus Mr. Mikhailov protests a society that allows people to fall into such substandard states and conditions. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Neue Galerie: 'Vienna 1900: Style and Identity' (through Aug. 8) One of history's more fraught fin-de-siecle efflorescences of art and thought is recounted in a shifting kaleidoscope of paintings, drawings, architectural models, posters and several species of decorative arts. Among paintings by Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka and Egon Schiele, there is also a re-creation of Freud's psychoanalytic couch, an eye-popping tribute to the Vienna Secession and a crowded face-off between the designer-theoreticians Josef Hoffmann and Adolf Loos. Over all, it resembles a tasting menu with enough rich and disparate flavors that the gaps and omissions can be overlooked. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Cory Arcangel: Pro Tools' (through Sept. 11) This solo turn from Mr. Arcangel, the digital wunderkind, artist-musician and inveterate hacker, seems a trifle scrubbed clean, sanitized and austere. Containing work almost entirely from 2011, it tells us little of his funkier early digital efforts or artistic development. A few pieces reflect his longstanding interest in television and video games; in others he tries too hard to establish his formalist bona fides with wry riffs on abstract painting and sculpture. Mr. Arcangel seems guided by a somewhat callow faith in the avant-garde, striving to perpetuate its tradition, dating from Duchamp, of laying claim to new areas of nonart for art's sake. Sometimes he succeeds, but not always. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Breaking Ground: The Whitney's Founding Collection' (through Sept. 18) In anticipation of its move to a new home in 2015, the Whitney is cooking up a series of six back-to-back experimental permanent collection shows at its present location. The first of them is a sampler of the earliest work in the holdings, and as a summary of the institution's initial view of American Modernism, what a curious thing it is. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: 57th Street
Willem de Kooning: 'The Figure: Movement and Gesture' (through July 29) This artist's own words -- brilliant as usual -- set the stage for this riveting show: ''The figure is nothing unless you twist it around like a strange miracle.'' The 32 mutually illuminating paintings, drawings and sculptures ranging from the late 1960s through the '70s are full of such twists and miracles, emerging from and then slipping back into extravagantly lush, unstable masses of brushwork. The capacity of these marks to read alternately as real -- even anatomically correct -- and malformed and abstract is one reason for the continuing relevance of de Kooning's art. Pace Gallery, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)
Leo Villareal: 'Volume' (through Aug. 19) You might just want to sit and gaze in blissful stupefaction at ''Cylinder,'' the single-light sculpture featured here. It consists of 160 12-foot-long lengths of shiny stainless steel, each with 140 light-emitting diodes, or LEDs, along one edge, hanging in five concentric circles to create a cylindrical volume nine feet in diameter. The thousands of computer-controlled lights flicker in the darkness, generating all kinds of patterns and a fascinating beauty. Gering & Lopez, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (646) 336-7183, geringlopez.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Chelsea
- John Chamberlain: 'New Sculpture' (through July 8) In some of the largest works of his career, this venerable American sculptor uses his signature materials -- crushed car bodies and fenders -- with tremendous compositional variety, verve and his usual unerring color sense. Variously comical, stately, architectural and gestural, these pieces erupt from the gallery's expansive concrete floors like unusually well-shaped mesas, creating an exhilarating indoor landscape. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Smith)
Sol LeWitt: 'Arcs and Lines' (through July 28) This extraordinary show features three gridded wall drawings by the eminent Conceptual-Minimalist Sol LeWitt (1928-2007), most prominently the airy and ebullient ''Wall Drawing #122'' from 1972, a spare work in blue crayon that wraps almost perfectly around the gallery's large central space. Featuring combinations of two straight, wavy, curved or broken lines in each compartment of the grid, its vaulting composition evokes Matisse's blue nudes, brisk Alpine views and even the blinking sweep of a radar screen, exemplifying both the economy and rich suggestiveness of LeWitt's art. Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com. (Smith)
- Picasso and Marie-Therese: 'L'Amour Fou' (through July 15) While falling short of the exhibition of late Picasso paintings and prints that filled this space two years ago, the latest Gagosian exegesis into Picasso land is a wonderfully motley, almost scattershot affair, brilliantly installed. It presents works, in all mediums and several styles, that Picasso made during the late 1920s and '30s, when he was under the spell of the voluptuous, Roman-nosed, level-eyed, full-limbed Marie-Therese Walter, arguably the love of his life. Anchored by this single if perpetually mutating subject, the art on hand confirms that when Picasso told Walter she had saved his life, he meant that she had also saved his art. Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)
- Jason Polan: 'Living and Working' (through July 30) This solo debut introduces an artist who is more or less drawing his way through life, as well as his own show. Friday is the last day he will spend drawing in the gallery, but he will continue adding works to the display, which includes, among much else, a ''life-size'' drawing of the head of King Kong, a decorated but useable table-tennis table and (my favorite) a wall covered with smudgy drawings of dense black circles, large, medium and small. Nicholas Robinson Gallery, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 560-9075, nrgallery.com. (Smith)
- Jo Ractliffe: 'Terras do Fim do Mundo (The Lands of the End of the World)' (through Aug. 13) At first glance, this South African photographer's black-and-white shots of sun-baked Angolan landscapes look random and bland: rocks, dirt, scrubby trees; some handwritten signs but no people. Only when you read some of the titles -- ''Mass Grave at Cassinga,'' ''Minefield Near Mupa'' -- do you learn where people are, or once were, and the pictures snap into expressive focus. The Walther Collection Project Space, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
Tyson Reeder (through July 15) Mr. Reeder, an art-world multitasker in Milwaukee who paints and organizes special events, is back in Chelsea for his first New York solo show in five years. He brings some of that peripatetic energy to his new paintings of heads and landscapes, which dart from Picabia to Fautrier to the Post-Impressionists. The heads in particular are richly varied. A natty bow-tied figure with masklike features, shaped with firm strokes of the palette knife, builds on Dubuffet; a loosely contoured cranium, with its pastel palette and palm trees, suggests Polke in Key West, Fla. Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street, (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
- Vladimir Tatlin: 'Monument to the Third International' (through July 29) Concocted by a founder of Russian Constructivism between 1915 and 1920, following close encounters with the Eiffel Tower and Picasso's guitar constructions in Paris, this tilting, spiraling, viaduct-like structure is one of early Modernism's most ambitious and best-known works of unrealized architecture, embodied by one of its biggest architectural models. Shown in the United States for the first time -- the oldest (1967) remake of the original model, which disappeared around 1932 -- it is dense with portents of 20th-century sculpture to come, from LeWitt's grids to Smithson's jetty. Tony Shafrazi, 544 West 26th Street, (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com. (Smith)
Richard Tuttle: 'What's the Wind' (through July 22) Working quite a bit larger than usual, this Post-Minimalist master of seeming trifles presents a series of deftly cobbled-together thingamajigs that charm and challenge. Each presents a kind of stage-set-like open volume of sculptural events patched together from colorful, lightweight materials and objects. The result is a somewhat slovenly, art-supplies Constructivism that is characteristically light, ephemeral and full of joy. Pace Gallery, 510 West 24th Street, (212) 255-4044, thepacegallery.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Other
- Tom Fairs: 'Drawings' (through July 15) You might mistake the small, town-and-country drawings in this lovely show for the works of an early 20th-century follower of Pierre Bonnard. The truth is that the British painter Tom Fairs (1925-2007) did not begin producing art full time until after his retirement from teaching at age 60. Working with soft pencils, he drew the outdoor world with an almost shocking avidity. This show, the first solo ever devoted to Fairs's work, is inspiring. KS Art, 73 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-9918, kerryschuss.com. (Johnson)
John Storrs: 'Machine-Age Modernist' (through July 9) The Chicago-born artist John Storrs (1885-1956) compacted utopian, machine-age dreaming into Cubist-Art Deco-style sculptures resembling pieces of architectural ornament and models of skyscrapers. There is nothing quite like his dense, carefully wrought stone and metal sculptures in early American -- or European, for that matter -- Modernism, and this finely tuned show gives a good account of his progress from the late '10s to the early '30s. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
Public Art
'Mark di Suvero at Governors Island: Presented by Storm King Art Center' (through Sept. 25) With 11 works spanning more than three decades, this show organized by Storm King Art Center, the 500-acre sculpture park in the Hudson Valley, is Mark di Suvero's biggest New York City survey since 1975. The all-outdoor exhibition works alongside the island's packed calendar of activities and festivals, offering bike riders and picnickers culture by osmosis. Plan to spend some time along the island's southern end, where four of Mr. di Suvero's best sculptures engage the waterfront and one another in invigorating ways. Governors Island, govisland.com. (Rosenberg)
Eva Rothschild: 'Empire' (through Aug. 28) At the southeast entrance to Central Park stands a colorful, tubular structure resembling a swing-set frame designed by spiders on LSD. Touching ground at 10 points on the cobbled plaza, its red, green and black striped posts rise at different angles into an airy web over 18 feet at its highest point. A playful riff on the ancient form of the triumphal arch, ''Empire'' will be a required photo-op for tourists and other visitors. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Central Park, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 223-7800, publicartfund.org. (Cotter)
Out of Town
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language' (through July 24) Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington, (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)
- The Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery, Skidmore College: 'Environment and Object: Recent African Art' (through July 31) Contemporary African art can mean many things: art made in Africa, or by someone from Africa living elsewhere, or by someone not from Africa but of African descent. All definitions apply in this stimulating show, as do variant readings of the rest of exhibition title. This is very much a show of objects, with several environments or installations. At the same time, the environment itself, meaning the natural world, under dire threat, is the subject of much of the art. 815 North Broadway, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., (518) 580-8080, tang.skidmore.edu. (Cotter)
- Neuberger Museum of Art: 'Art in Cameroon: Sculptural Dialogues' (through Aug. 14) With 30 sculptures, two from the Neuberger's holdings, this show isn't large, but some of the pieces are spellbinders, given plenty of room to work their magic. Highlights are two figures, one of a man, the other of a woman, both elderly, found in the same area of Cameroon in 1910, taken to different collections in Europe and reunited here, in silent conversation, after some 75 years. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Cotter)
Last Chance
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum: 'Set in Style: The Jewelry of Van Cleef & Arpels' (closes on Monday) Van Cleef & Arpels, the century-old French jewelry firm, is the primary sponsor of this show and has supplied much of its mega-carat menu: some 350 lavish pieces worn by royals, screen sirens and social swans. Although extravagance doesn't seem out of place in this former Carnegie mansion, the show often looks as if it were put together by the company's creative directors and merchandisers. The visitors lining up around the block don't seem to care, as long as they can linger over pieces like a maharani's carved-emerald necklace and large sapphire-and-diamond pendant earrings worn by Elizabeth Taylor. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Rosenberg)
- Jasper Johns: 'New Sculpture and Works on Paper' (closes on Friday) The centerpiece of this pleasantly miscellaneous show is a large cast-aluminum relief and six smaller two-sided ones in cast bronze and silver, which put grids of the numbers zero through nine through elaborate variations in texture, legibility and suggestion. Among the artist's first cast-metal objects in some years, they exemplify his trenchant recycling of motifs and clarify his tendency to conflate aspects of printing, painting and sculpture (and collage). Their mesmerizing combination of lapidary detail and casual process reveals the intensity of Mr. Johns's mind with unusual clarity. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Smith)
Judy Ledgerwood: 'April Showers' (closes on Friday) This Chicago painter's single-handed revival of 1970s Pattern and Decoration art -- which has been going for nearly a decade -- is gaining critical mass. Her latest paintings feature imposing flowers reduced to four bulging circles that evade nostalgia with a combination of humor, severity and formal boisterousness, as well as healthy doses of process and saturated color. Similar motifs multiply into Persian-style patterns in two wall paintings that suggest Matissean textiles and in a bevy of large ceramic vases. Tracy Williams Ltd., 521 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 229-2757, tracywilliamsltd.com. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Guitar Heroes: Legendary Craftsmen from Italy to New York' (closes on Monday) The heroes of this exceptionally interesting show are three craftsmen known for producing some of the most sought-after jazz guitars of the 20th century. Part I surveys a history of Italian luthiers from 17th-century Naples to Italian immigrants producing string instruments in New York in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Part II presents lovingly made archtop guitars and mandolins dating from 1923 to 2008 by inheritors of that tradition: John D'Angelico, James D'Aquisto and John Monteleone. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rooms with a View: The Open Window in the 19th Century' (closes on Monday) This compact, quietly splendid exhibition explores the window as luminous light source, as semi-abstract compositional element and as the focal point for a certain poignant, implicitly Romantic yearning. The images -- mostly by German, French and Scandinavian artists before 1830 -- depict both domestic settings and artists' studios and are passively subversive in their avoidance of large-scale, historic themes and formal portraiture. They show us a world on the verge of electricity, photography and industrialization, a moment of irretrievable, partly fictive calm that incites some yearning of its own. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
'Mixed Messages: A(I)DS, Art + Words' (closes on Sunday) All of the art in this year's edition of the annual summer group show sponsored by Visual AIDS is based on words, and while the theme of language in art is a bit shopworn, the curator, John Chaich, brings some snap to it through his multigenerational choice of artists. And the HIV/AIDS context itself, around which everything implicitly revolves, gives the idea of communication a sense of urgency. La Mama La Galleria, 6 East First Street, East Village, (212) 505-2476, lamama.org. (Cotter)
New Museum: 'Gustav Metzger: Historic Photographs' (closes on Sunday) Politically heavy-handed hybrids of photography and sculpture in this British artist's first solo museum exhibition in the United States are a lugubrious downer. Old, broken bricks are piled in front of a blown-up picture of a woman and a young boy with upraised arms watched by rifle-toting German soldiers. A pair of photomurals juxtaposing goose-stepping Nazis and regimented concentration camp internees is titled ''Terror and Oppression.'' Mr. Metzger's lessons about photographic and moral vision are less than subtle. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Apichatpong Weerasethakul: Primitive' (closes on Sunday) Focusing on teenage boys in rural Thailand, the celebrated Thai filmmaker Apichatpong Weerasethakul has produced an expansive, multiscreen video installation that is, by turns, beautiful, tedious, opaque and affectingly poetic. With the patience-testing style we've come to expect of avant-garde moviemaking, ''Primitive'' revolves around the playful construction of a time-traveling spaceship by village youths. The obliquely invoked background is a half-century of war and civil strife that has taken the lives of countless young men in Southeast Asia. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Bill Rice: 'Paintings and Works on Paper' (closes on Friday) Bill Rice (1932-2006) was best known to many people as a stage and film actor who worked with Gary Indiana, Jim Jarmusch, Richard Kern and Jim Neu. But he came to New York City as a painter in the 1950s, and a painter he remained. This show of 11 glowing Lower East Side cityscapes gives a good idea of the kind of artist he was: a constructivist, a sensualist and a nocturnalist. Steven Harvey Fine Art Project, 24 East 73rd Street, near Madison Avenue, (212) 281-2281, shfap.com. (Cotter)
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation' (closes on Thursday) Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700, nmai.si.edu. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'SET IN STYLE: THE JEWELRY OF VAN CLEEF & ARPELS': (closes on Monday) Van Cleef & Arpels, the century-old French jewelry firm, is the primary sponsor of this show and has supplied much of its mega-carat menu: some 350 lavish pieces worn by royals, screen sirens and social swans. One example: this 1931 Blue Train Box necessaire, with sapphires, emeralds and diamonds on platinum and white gold. Although extravagance doesn't seem out of place in this former Carnegie mansion, the show often looks as if it were put together by the company's creative directors and merchandisers. The visitors lining up around the block don't seem to care, as long as they can linger over pieces like a maharani's carved-emerald necklace and large sapphire-and-diamond pendant earrings worn by Elizabeth Taylor. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Karen Rosenberg) (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK GRIES/VAN CLEEF & ARPELS COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); FABRICS (76%); TEXTILES (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



23 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Midwest Manufacturing Picked Up Steam in June

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Factory activity in the Midwest accelerated in June, fostering hopes for a pickup in economic growth in the third quarter, despite signs of lingering weakness in the labor market. 
The Institute for Supply Management, Chicago, said on Thursday that its business barometer rose to 61.1 after slowing abruptly to 56.6 in May. The gain defied economists' expectations for a decline to 54.
The sturdy factory activity in the automotive-heavy region ended a string of weak regional manufacturing surveys and raised optimism that the economy might start to emerge from the soft patch of the first half of the year.
''This may be an indication that we are at least at the bottom of this slowdown, not only in manufacturing but also economic,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York. ''In the months ahead we are likely to see a resurgence in growth.''
But optimism was tempered somewhat by a separate report from the Labor Department showing that initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped just 1,000 to 428,000 last week. Economists had expected claims to drop to 420,000.
It was the 12th straight week that claims have been above 400,000, a sign the labor market has stagnated. Employment stumbled badly in May, with employers adding just 54,000 jobs -- the fewest in eight months.
The brightening manufacturing picture was enhanced by a survey from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City that showed factory production in its region rebounded strongly this month after slumping in May.
The bullish reports prompted some institutions, including Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan, to raise their forecasts for Friday's Institute for Supply Management index of national factory activity. They now expect the index to show underlying strength in a sector that has led the economic recovery.
Details of the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index survey were generally upbeat, with new orders and production rising. The employment index was lower but still indicated expansion.
''The recovery in the Chicago P.M.I. strongly suggests that manufacturing activity got a noticeable boost from improving auto sector conditions in the back half of the month,'' said Joseph A. LaVorgna, chief United States economist for Deutsche Bank.
Recent surveys from the New York and Philadelphia regional Fed banks have shown steep declines in factory activity in those two areas, but Mr. LaVorgna said the Chicago PMI had a bigger weighting in the ISM index than the other two combined.
A report on Wednesday showed Japanese factory output rose by the most in almost 60 years in May, pointing to a speedy restoration to earthquake-damaged supply chains.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A job fair in Southfield, Mich. Initial jobless claims dropped just 1,000 last week, to 428,000. That was 8,000 less than expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



24 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: The Goals of AARP

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''How AARP Can Get Its Groove Back'' (Op-Ed, June 24): 
Contrary to the claims of Frederick R. Lynch, AARP remains resolved to improve the lives of older Americans, and we are dedicated to protecting Social Security and Medicare -- for current and future retirees -- against all those who would weaken these lifeline programs.
Since our founding more than 50 years ago, we have mobilized the power of older Americans on behalf of long-overdue public policies, including the creation of Medicare in 1965 and the establishment of a prescription drug benefit in 2003. We have vigorously and effectively resisted plans that would undermine seniors' financial security, like turning Social Security into a system of risky private accounts. In each case, we have successfully championed the health and economic security of older Americans.
That does not mean we ignore the serious budget difficulties our country faces. We operate within that fiscal reality as we develop and fight for solutions that honor America's promise to older people and to those who come after them. We insist that lawmakers adopt the priorities of the people they serve -- and that means protecting vital programs like Medicare and Social Security.
Our purpose remains as it has ever been: to ensure that today's older Americans and future generations have the best retirement security possible. We are united in our efforts, and we will continue to make the voices of all older Americans heard.
LEE HAMMOND President, AARP Washington, June 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



25 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Labor Dispute Is Making New Factory a Political Football

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. -- Boeing's gigantic new $750 million airplane factory here is the pride of South Carolina, the biggest single investment ever made in a state that is far more associated with old-line textile mills than state-of-the-art manufacturing. In just a few weeks, 1,000 workers will begin assembling the first of what they hope will be hundreds of 787 Dreamliners.
That is, unless the federal government takes it all away.
In a case that has enraged South Carolinians and become a cause celebre among Republican lawmakers and presidential hopefuls, the National Labor Relations Boardhas accused Boeing of illegally setting up shop in South Carolina because of past strikes by the unionized workers at its main manufacturing base in the Seattle area. The board is asking a judge to order Boeing to move the Dreamliner production -- and the associated jobs -- to Washington State. 
Companies can generally move a plant anywhere they choose, although federal law bars them from doing so if a move involves punishing employees for exercising their federally protected right to unionize or strike. On several occasions, Boeing executives mentioned past strikes as a reason for the move to South Carolina -- most directly, when one told the Seattle Times that the ''overriding factor'' in the decision was ''we can't afford to have a work stoppage every three years.''
The unusual legal action, filed in April at the behest of Boeing's principal union, has grown into a political conflagration, fanned by deep resentments between North and South, Democrats and Republicans, union and nonunion workers, and fans and foes of Big Government.
Republican presidential candidates have denounced the case as a symbol of President Obama's liberal agenda because he appointed the labor board's top officials. This week, Mitt Romney called the labor board's case a job killer. Newt Gingrich has proposed terminating the board's funding, and Tim Pawlenty said the case evokes ''the Soviet Union circa 1970s.''
At a time of great economic anxiety, the case raises questions about the federal government's role in promoting -- or impeding -- corporate investment and job creation.
Facing so much heat, Mr. Obama said on Wednesday that he did not want to discuss details of the case because the N.L.R.B. was an independent agency.
However, ''as a general proposition, companies need to have the freedom to relocate,'' he said. ''We can't afford to have labor and management fighting all the time, at a time when we're competing against Germany and China and other countries that want to sell goods all around the world.''
Business and government leaders in the South argue that the labor board is undermining Boeing's competitive advantage, and they are particularly incensed that officials seem to be favoring unionized workers and plants.
''This is a huge issue because economic development in the South has really been accelerated by the growth of nonunion plants,'' said Merle Black, a political science professor at Emory University. ''This case directly threatens the Southern model of economic development.''
For South Carolina, the Boeing plant means far more than just the thousands of jobs it will create directly and indirectly. Boeing is a marquee company, and state leaders hope its presence will help erase South Carolina's lingering image as an industrial backwater.
''Boeing was a dream come true for South Carolina,'' said Gov. Nikki R. Haley in an interview. ''They came in and brought the hope of the American dream to this state to create real, good-quality jobs.''
Those kinds of jobs are hard to come by in the Charleston area.
''Everybody I talk to here is excited about this plant,'' said one worker, Wayne Gravot. On a recent day at the plant, which is the size of 12 football fields, he and five co-workers were practicing drilling through carbon fiber -- a lightweight composite material, as hard as metal, used for much of the Dreamliner's body.
''It's a good job, a secure job,'' said Mr. Gravot, 45, an Air Force veteran and father of two. Not long ago, he was laid off from a medical devices company and he does not want to end up unemployed again.
The outcome of the case may not be certain for years, as it winds through N.L.R.B. proceedings and likely court appeals. If Boeing loses, it could be ordered to move its three-a-month Dreamliner assembly line from South Carolina to Washington State.
As Ms. Haley and South Carolina's members of Congress see it, federal bureaucrats have no right to snatch away the state's prize or tell a global company where to locate a factory.
Like many Republicans, Ms. Haley holds President Obama responsible. ''He didn't just slap South Carolina, he slapped a great company that chose to do business here,'' she said. ''The president talks about doing something to create jobs -- that's the last thing he's doing here.''
Board officials say that they have never discussed the case with the White House.
Increasing the sense of disbelief for many here in South Carolina, the board filed the case just as the new plant was nearly completed. Production is scheduled to begin in mid-July.
The case stems from a complaint the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Engineers filed last year, asserting that Boeing was illegally retaliating against its members in Washington State for exercising their right to strike. Those workers have gone on strike five times since 1977, including a 58-day walkout in 2008.
Christopher Corson, the machinists' general counsel, said, ''Boeing broke the law, and there are consequences when someone breaks the law.''
Boeing officials deny violating any labor laws, saying that the main reason they chose South Carolina was to lower production costs. On Thursday, an administrative law judge in Seattle denied Boeing's request to dismiss the case.
Connie Kelliher, a spokeswoman for the machinists, said the union was not seeking to shut down the South Carolina plant. In its settlement negotiations with Boeing, the union has suggested that the company keep the plant operating by moving some outsourced parts production from other countries to South Carolina -- an idea that Boeing and industry analysts consider unrealistic.
For the machinists, the stakes are high. They fear that if Dreamliner production is allowed to go forward in South Carolina, then much of Boeing's future expansion will take place there.
For South Carolina, battered by the closing of textile mills and furniture factories, the plant is equally vital.
''These things come along at best once a decade,'' said Douglas P. Woodward, an economics professor at the University of South Carolina. ''It's as big as anything that's happened to South Carolina since BMW.''
Indeed, BMW opened near Spartanburg in 1994, with 1,200 workers. Since then, employment has expanded to 7,000, and officials say the factory has produced 21,000 spinoff jobs. South Carolinians are hoping for a similar trajectory with Boeing.
''If Boeing takes off, South Carolina will soar with it,'' Professor Woodward said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The plant would bring 1,000 jobs to South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Kevin Riley was part of a 2008 strike against Boeing in Washington State. Top, new Boeing workers at the nearly finished plant in North Charleston train under the state flag. At right, the new building will house production of the 787 Dreamliner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); STRIKES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); LITIGATION (74%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); TEXTILE MILLS (73%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); TIM PAWLENTY (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



26 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Perry and Hispanics Coexist Uneasily in Politics

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR. 
jaguilar@texastribune.org

 BODY:
It was an awkward moment for the swashbuckling, gun-toting governor of Texas. Fresh off the heels of several raucous welcomes before adoring groups of conservatives across the country, Gov. Rick Perry found himself staring into a crowd more intent on dessert than the speech he was delivering, and in his home state no less.
There were conservatives in the audience at the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in San Antonio last week, but they also appeared a bit stung by Mr. Perry's recent promotion of tough anti-immigration laws, policy rhetoric that many Latino political leaders say he must moderate if he hopes to court their community outside Texas in any bid for the White House.
The governor has not officially announced whether he will run for president. 
The same day Mr. Perry was sized up by more than 500 Latino officials from across the country, the group released updated statistics showing that the United States has an estimated 12.2 million projected Latino voters, an increase of about 26 percent from 2008's figures. Texas has about two million of them.
Latino lawmakers say Mr. Perry's push to prevent so-called ''sanctuary cities'' in Texas -- local governments that prohibit law enforcement officers from inquiring into the immigration status of people they arrest or detain -- resembles measures proposed in several states that are modeled on Arizona's anti-immigrant law.
Mr. Perry's language, some say, is a noticeable shift from his tone four years ago when in his inauguration address he said:
''Illegal immigration drains the resources of our schools, our hospitals and our law enforcement agencies. But I do not believe it is realistic to deport 12 million people already here illegally. We have to understand why millions of people come here, and why many more have died trying; it is for something as basic as the freedom to find a job and feed their families.''
Mr. Perry said then that Texas had ''shown Washington what works,'' specifically state-run operations to increase manpower along the Rio Grande. But he also said that a guest-worker program was necessary to ''recognize the economic contributions of foreign workers.''
The failure to enact sanctuary cities legislation was one of the rare defeats Mr. Perry sustained in the 82nd Texas Legislature. The measure failed to pass twice, once during the regular session and again during the special session. Even so, Mr. Perry's unwavering support for it could hurt him among Latino voters nationally, some national Latino leaders say.
''The support that he's shown for the sanctuary cities bill is really counterproductive,'' said Arturo Vargas, the executive director of the NALEO Educational Fund. ''I remember vividly in 1994, when we had a governor in California, Pete Wilson, who got behind Proposition 187, which I would consider to be the forerunner to all these other measures. In California we would point to the governor of Texas who said, 'Not in my state will we ever have Proposition 187,' and that was George W. Bush. And now things have reversed.''
Although Mr. Perry does not talk about a guest-worker program anymore, some Texas lawmakers did champion such a program this past session. It failed to win a vote in committee, however, and was not one of Mr. Perry's priority items.
Asked why the governor's philosophy has changed, Mark Miner, his spokesman, said Mr. Perry was a leader intent on letting the Legislature do its work.
''The Legislature took the action they felt necessary,'' Mr. Miner said. ''The governor does not micromanage every single bill that goes before the House and the Senate.''
In any case, Latinos across the country warn against the assumption that their most important concerns revolve only around immigration. As with most voters, Latinos are also paying attention to what Mr. Perry has excelled at: job creation. To some, that may be enough to look past or even forgive his anti-immigrant stance.
''I think the most important issue for any presidential candidate is who has the best plan to improve our economy, who had the best plan to bring real jobs to the various states across the country,'' said State Senator Anitere Flores, a Republican from Florida. ''That's the most pressing issue facing Hispanics, non-Hispanics and everybody else in between.''
Speaking of Mr. Perry's NALEO address, Ms. Flores said the governor ''did well on his message about the economy but he didn't touch on the other issue.''
In his San Antonio speech, Mr. Perry did not talk, as he usually does, about border violence, illegal immigration or his disdain for President Obama, a signal to some that he knew those topics would have resonated poorly.
''I would agree with Governor Perry's views on businesses and job creation aspects,'' said State Senator John M. Sapien, a Democrat from New Mexico, ''but I think we run into a divide on immigration issues.
''In New Mexico we have very much moved to that standpoint that it doesn't matter how you got here. If you're adding to the economy and you are willing to get a license and be part of the rolls, you are going to add to the community. I don't see Governor Perry going down that road. In fact I see him going down the road of Gov. Susana Martinez.''
Ms. Martinez, a New Mexico Republican, joins Mr. Perry in demanding more from President Obama to ensure a secure border.
Mr. Miner said Mr. Perry's failure to mention Mr. Obama's name last week was not a mistake. The governor went to San Antonio, he said, to promote Texas' leadership in job growth under his tenure, especially during a nationwide recession.
Mr. Perry talked about the same issues at the NALEO event ''that he does wherever he gives speeches, and the primary focus of this administration has been on the economy and job creation,'' Mr. Miner said.
But the job creation claim deserves scrutiny, said Sylvia Garcia, NALEO's president. The numbers -- 730,000 private-sector jobs created in 10 years, according to the governor's speech -- have not necessarily favored Latinos.
''The real key question is, If all those jobs are being created, where are these jobs going? What kind of level jobs are they?'' Ms. Garcia said. ''Are they high-tech that perhaps don't reach our community? Are they construction jobs? Are they teacher jobs?''
Under Mr. Perry's leadership, Texas boasts a lower unemployment rate than the national average of about 8 percent. Latinos, however, have a higher unemployment percentage than the state's average. According to the United States Department of Labor's 2010 data for the civilian noninstitutional population, Latino unemployment in Texas is 9.4 percent, compared with 7.4 percent in the state's non-Hispanic white population.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds rallied in February in Austin to protest legislation they considered anti-immigrant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARJORIE KAMYS COTERA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); DEPORTATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STATISTICS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF LATINO ELECTED & APPOINTED OFFICIALS (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



27 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Former Chairman of Mortgage Firm Sentenced to 30 Years in Bank Fraud

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:40 p.m. Updated
A federal judge on Thursday sentenced Lee B. Farkas, a former mortgage industry executive accused of masterminding one of the largest bank fraud schemes in history, to 30 years in prison.
The case against Mr. Farkas, the former chairman of the mortgage firm Taylor, Bean & Whitaker, stands as the single-biggest prosecution stemming from the financial crisis. Prosecutors had asked for a sentence of as much as 385 years.
''I do not detect one bit of actual remorse,'' Judge Leonie M. Brinkema told Mr. Farkas in a federal courtroom in Alexandria, Va., on Thursday. ''You regret getting caught.'' 
Mr. Farkas, 58 years old, wearing a green prison jumpsuit, read from a statement that said he ''strived to be a good person.''
As chairman of Taylor Bean, Mr. Farkas orchestrated a plot that caused the demise of Colonial Bank and cheated investors and the government out of billions of dollars, prosecutors say.
Still, Taylor Bean was a minor financial firm based in Florida, and the crimes of Mr. Farkas began well before the crisis struck. So while the case is a defining moment for the government, its relative obscurity also highlights the continued struggle to prosecute financial fraud in the wake of the crisis.
Other than Mr. Farkas and a string of smaller mortgage fraud prosecutions, no senior financial executives have been convicted of crimes. Even now, federal prosecutors have yet to bring charges against an executive who ran a large Wall Street institution leading up to the crisis.
A 2009 case against two hedge fund managers at Bear Stearns ended in acquittals. Prosecutors also recently dropped an investigation into Angelo R. Mozilo, the former head of the subprime lending giant Countrywide Financial.
''We're going to pursue financial institutions when we believe we can prove those cases,'' Lanny A. Breuer, the assistant attorney general, said in an interview on Thursday. ''These can be very complicated cases that take a long period of time.''
The government, aiming to send a message to the financial industry, asked Judge Brinkema to impose up to the maximum 385-year sentence on Mr. Farkas. As an alternative, the government recommended a penalty of at least 50 years to ensure that he will ''spend the remainder of his life in prison.''
Richard L. Scheff, a former federal prosecutor who is now a criminal defense lawyer and chairman of Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads, called the government's request ''completely over the top.''
''Under any stretch of the imagination, 30 years is very significant; it's tantamount to a life sentence,'' he said.
Mr. Farkas, who also was ordered to turn over roughly $38.5 million in gains, had asked for a 15-year sentence. His lawyers argued that his actions were intended to keep Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank in business.
His sentence, while steep, falls short of the 150 years given to Bernard L. Madoff for running a huge Ponzi scheme.
Mr. Farkas's fellow Taylor Bean executives fared far better. The firm's former chief executive and treasurer, among others, pleaded guilty and cooperated in the case against Mr. Farkas. The executives received sentences ranging from three months to eight years.
In recent letters to the court, friends and supporters of Mr. Farkas painted him as a kind-hearted humanitarian, someone who always ''displayed integrity.'' Mr. Farkas once paid a stranger's medical bills, often donated to the local Salvation Army's Christmas fund-raiser and even offered his private jet to take a mother and her baby to New York for cancer treatment, they said.
Mr. Farkas took the stand during the trial to defend this reputation and deny any wrongdoing.
But a federal jury in Virginia was unmoved. In April, after a 10-day trial and little more than a day of deliberations, the jurors found Mr. Farkas guilty on 14 counts of securities, bank and wire fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud.
Mr. Farkas's $2.9 billion scheme began in 2002, prosecutors say, when Taylor Bean was facing mounting losses. To hide the losses, Taylor Bean executives secretly overdrew the firm's accounts with Colonial Bank. The lender, aiming to cover up the overdrafts, sold Colonial about $1.5 billion in ''worthless'' and ''fake'' mortgages. The government, in turn, guaranteed the bogus loans.
When Colonial started to struggle, Mr. Farkas helped convince the bank to apply for more than $550 million in taxpayer bailout funds. The Treasury Department initially approved the rescue loan, but ultimately withdrew the offer.
Colonial filed for bankruptcy in August 2009, making it the sixth-largest bank failure in history.
Mr. Farkas, meanwhile, diverted more than $40 million from Taylor Bean and Colonial to ''finance his lifestyle,'' prosecutors said. He used the money, according to the government, to buy a private jet, vacation homes and a collection of vintage cars.
''He did this to live like a king, and now justice has come to bear,'' Mr. Breuer said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lee B. Farkas shown appearing in court in Ocala, Fla., on June 17, 2010. He was sentenced to 30 years in prison on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE ACKERMAN/ OCALA STAR-BANNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); JUDGES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ACQUITTAL (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MONTGOMERY MCCRACKEN WALKER & RHOADS LLP (61%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (61%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



28 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Romney Blasts Obama as 'a Failure' on the Economy

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Sean Collins Walsh contributed reporting from Philadelphia.

 BODY:
ALLENTOWN, Pa. -- Standing before the locked gate of a steel plant that President Obama once visited while promoting his economic stimulus plan, Mitt Romney pointed to weeds and boarded-up windows and called the president's handling of the economy a failure.
He did so one day after the president used a White House news conference to press Congressional Republicans to come to the table on a federal deficit compromise and asked voters to be patient about the painfully slow recovery. 
Mr. Romney seized on the issue, telling reporters: ''The plant here had been open 100 years; it survived the Great Depression. It couldn't survive the Obama economy.''
''Now the president says, 'Just give me more time' and 'It could have been worse,' '' Mr. Romney continued. ''It couldn't have been worse for the people who worked at this plant. For them, this is as bad as it gets.''
Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who leads in early polls for the Republican nomination, maintained his campaign strategy of positioning himself as nearly the inevitable nominee, directing criticism at Mr. Obama as if already focused on the general election more than a year away.
During the 15 minutes he spoke and took several questions, he never mentioned any of his Republican challengers. And rather than spending the day in a crucial early primary state, he made his first campaign trip to Pennsylvania, which usually votes Democratic in presidential elections, in a challenge to Mr. Obama.
The setting for this piece of political theater was the Allentown Metal Works, a steel plant that closed in January after struggling for years. Mr. Obama toured it in December 2009 as part of a swing through the Rust Belt to promote the slow turnaround of the economy under the $787 billion stimulus bill he had pushed through Congress. He said at the time that the stimulus had created or saved as many as 1.6 million jobs and gotten the economy moving again.
Mr. Romney was challenged by a reporter for having repeated in his campaign that Mr. Obama's policies had worsened the recession, an assertion he made during a debate of Republican candidates in New Hampshire in June.
Mr. Romney backtracked from that statement. ''What I said was the economy hasn't turned around,'' he said here. He added, ''If you think the economy's great and doing well, be my guest.''
Noting that when the stimulus passed the president predicted it would hold unemployment below 8 percent, Mr. Romney said: ''We're over 9 percent unemployment. That's failure.''
Brad Woodhouse, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said Mr. Romney would ''simply return to the same failed policies that nearly wrecked our economy and had our nation shedding nearly 800,000 jobs a month.''
Asked what he would tell Congress if he were in Mr. Obama's shoes in the impasse over the federal deficit and the debt ceiling, Mr. Romney cited three imperatives: cut spending, cap spending and pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
In a rejoinder to the president's accusing Congressional Republicans on Wednesday of procrastinating on hard budget decisions, Mr. Romney took a swipe at Mr. Obama for leaving Washington on Thursday to appear at two fund-raising events in Philadelphia. (He did not mention that he, too, had two fund-raisers scheduled in the area.)
Mr. Obama, who appeared at a fund-raiser for the Democratic National Committee in Philadelphia, criticized the attacks by the Republican presidential field.
''They won't have a plan, but they'll attack,'' he said. ''The American people are a lot less interested in us attacking each other. They're more interested in us attacking the country's problems.''
Throughout Mr. Romney's brief appearance here, he clearly relished the irony of the setting. He repeated several variations of his statement that Mr. Obama had visited the plant ''a year and a half ago and indicated that this was a symbol of the success of his stimulus program.''
At the time of the president's visit, he never specifically promised stimulus funds would include money for Allentown Metal Works. The century-old plant that had already seen its work force reduced to 65 from more than 100 by then, according to local reports.
One person who does not fault Mr. Obama for the plant's failure is John Hydro, the last full-time employee, who works as a watchman as machinery from the former fabrication shops is disassembled to be sold off. ''Cheap foreign labor killed us, basically,'' said Mr. Hydro, 66, who has worked here 21 years. ''You can't blame it on the president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney spoke Thursday outside the shuttered Allentown Metal Works, a Pennsylvania steel plant that President Obama once visited. ''It couldn't survive the Obama economy,'' Mr. Romney said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCHULTZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); GOVERNORS (67%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



29 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Staying (for Now)

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Binyamin Appelbaum and Michael Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Thursday that he planned to stay in his job ''for the foreseeable future.''
Normally, that would not qualify as news. But Mr. Geithner's comments came in a frenzied afternoon of speculation after news reports that he was considering leaving the Obama administration in the coming months, after a deal is reached with Congress to reduce the budget deficit.
Mr. Geithner's comments, made at a conference in Chicago organized by former President Bill Clinton, were clearly intended to douse that speculation, underscoring how worried the White House is about the potentially destabilizing effect of his departure as it struggles with a fragile recovery and holds tough negotiations with Congress to avert a debt crisis. 
''I live for this work, it's the only work I've done, and I believe in it,'' Mr. Geithner said in reply to a question from Mr. Clinton about his career plans. ''I'm going to be doing it for the foreseeable future.''
Mr. Geithner, who turns 50 in August, said his son had decided to attend his final year of high school in New York, where Mr. Geithner previously lived, which meant that he would be commuting between Washington and New York for a while.
Earlier in the day, two administration officials familiar with Mr. Geithner's thinking said family issues were weighing on him, as well as the recognition that there was a window of opportunity for him to leave after a debt deal was reached, but before the election year of 2012.
If Mr. Geithner does depart, he would be the last member of Mr. Obama's economic brain trust to leave after two-and-a-half years of turmoil. In that time, the White House confronted a financial crisis, a historic recession, near double-digit unemployment and a recovery that has yet to gain traction.
Austan Goolsbee, one of Mr. Obama's chief economic advisers, recently announced he would return to his teaching post at the University of Chicago. Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration and a major Obama adviser, left late last year for Harvard, while Christina Romer, Mr. Obama's first head of the Council of Economic Advisers, returned last summer to the University of California, Berkeley.
Of all these departures, Mr. Geithner's would arguably have the greatest impact. He has become one of the president's closest and most trusted counselors, attending his daily briefings and coordinating the White House's strategy on crucial issues like financial reform and pressuring China on its currency.
Mr. Geithner's influence within the administration has grown as other senior advisers have left, including some with whom he had clashed. He is perhaps now at the peak of his power, urging along the president's gradual embrace of deficit reduction and heading the administration's focus on foreign trade as an opportunity to accelerate growth at home.
Equally important is the credibility he enjoys on Wall Street, where he worked as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York before joining the Obama administration. Mr. Geithner is seen as deeply knowledgeable about the intricacies of modern finance and protective of the system's health.
As Congress dallies over whether to raise the debt ceiling, Mr. Geithner's repeated and forceful assurances that Washington understands the ceiling must be raised, and his unequivocal commitment that it will indeed be raised, have helped to preserve calm among investors.
Finding a replacement for him, and winning Senate confirmation would not be easy. Among potential candidates are Erskine Bowles, former chief of staff to Mr. Clinton and co-chairman of President Obama's deficit commission; Roger Altman, an investment banker and former deputy Treasury secretary in the Clinton years; Janet Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve; and Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, who previously served as a lieutenant to Mr. Geithner.
But any of those candidates would most likely face a contentious confirmation hearing in the Senate as the country heads into a presidential election year and especially so if the economy remains sluggish.
For all these reasons, reports that Mr. Geithner was leaving captured the attention of Washington and financial markets.
The drama began in midafternoon when Bloomberg News reported that Mr. Geithner was weighing his departure, citing three unidentified people familiar with his thinking. The White House and Treasury declined to comment on the report, but The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and other media organizations soon confirmed the gist of it and posted their own versions.
Officials cautioned that Mr. Geithner had made no decision, and directed reporters to listen to a discussion he was scheduled to have with Mr. Clinton in Chicago, where he would address his plans.
Seated on a dais across from Mr. Clinton, Mr. Geithner argued that a deal to reduce the deficit was crucial to demonstrate, at home and abroad, that the United States could put its fiscal house in order.
''If we can lock in some long-term reforms, then we'll have a chance to turn our attention to the many other challenges facing our country,'' Mr. Geithner said. He predicted that the American economy could return to the brisk growth it enjoyed during the 1990s.
''We're just living with the scars, damage from the worst crisis since the Great Depression,'' he said.
Their discussion wound to a close, and Mr. Clinton declared he would ask one ''press question'' -- namely, was Mr. Geithner planning to leave? He smiled, offered his demurral, and the panel ended -- and with it, it would seem, his hope of returning to New York any time soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Last month, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner was at the Capitol for negotiations on the United States debt crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner arriving for a Republican freshman caucus in June with Representative Tim Scott. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); BUDGETS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); RECESSION (74%); FAMILY (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TIM SCOTT (70%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (56%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); CHRISTINA ROMER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



30 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Online Activism Finds a Home in San Francisco

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In late May, a Saudi blogger named Eman al-Nafjan contacted Change.org -- a San Francisco group that hosts online petitions to encourage social change -- seeking help for a group of Saudi women who were protesting their government's ban on women driving.
Benjamin Joffe-Walt, a Change.org activist, offered more than just a petition. He organized demonstrations in Washington and drafted press releases that he distributed to 20,000 journalists. He sent an ''e-mail bomb'' -- a flurry of e-mails -- to State Department officials, calling on Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to condemn the driving ban.
On June 19, the Saudi protesters claimed a small victory when Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference, ''What these women are doing is brave, and what they are doing is right.''
The episode provided a glimpse into how Change.org, a 40-employee start-up operating out of a sparse loft in the South of Market district, hopes to become a platform for grass-roots activism. The group is just one in an emerging field of organizations that try to harness the Internet to help users turn online clicks into social change. 
Change.org's e-mail campaign was not the only reason Mrs. Clinton made a statement, but news media outlets cited the organization's online petition, which gathered nearly 75,000 signatures. The Associated Press credited Change.org in images it distributed of Manal al-Sharif, a female driver whose May arrest galvanized the movement.
Over the past two months, the group's profile has skyrocketed with its involvement in several high-profile issues. Change.org is hosting petitions encouraging professional sports teams to produce videos in support of gay youths, part of the ''It Gets Better'' campaign. The San Francisco Giants recorded a video.
A petition calling on the Chinese government to release Ai Weiwei, an artist, gathered 140,000 signatures from 175 countries over three months. On April 18, the Change.org Web site went dark for 12 hours after its servers came under a cyberattack that, according to the organization, originated in China. The attack, which continues to cause downtime on the site, is under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Mr. Ai was released June 22.
''We empower people with whatever support they need to carry out successful grass-roots campaigns,'' said Ben Rattray, 31, who founded Change.org in 2006 with Mark Dimas, his dorm-mate as a Stanford University undergraduate.
Change.org ''can be the most influential social change agent in the world,'' Mr. Rattray said.
Critics, however, argue that Change.org is neither groundbreaking nor very promising. Rather, they say, it is the latest incarnation of ''slacktivism'' or ''clicktivism'' -- terms associated with e-mail petitions in the 1990s and 2000s that promised to change the world but often delivered little more than bursts of self-righteousness.
''Social media tools can be very effective if they complement offline campaigns,'' said Jillian C. York, director of international freedom of expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco nonprofit organization that advocates for civil rights on the Web. ''But I don't think signing a petition does anything useful.''
Stuart W. Shulman, a professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said Change.org was a ''good mechanism for generating fund-raising leads'' or ''negative publicity campaigns.'' But there is no proof that its campaigns influence decision makers, Mr. Shulman said.
In fact, the growth of Change.org -- and other online social activism groups like Avaaz.org and Signon.org, a service created by the founders of MoveOn.org -- goes to the heart of a longstanding debate among activists and researchers: How powerful is online activism?
In recent years, Facebook introduced a highly publicized ''Causes'' section for nonprofit organizations to raise money. Last year, Google hired Jared Cohen, who formerly worked as the State Department's ''twitterer in chief,'' to head Google Ideas, a group dedicated to solving problems in the developing world.
The issue of online activism heated up during the recent uprisings in the Middle East. While some have credited social media as a force that helped topple autocrats in Tunis and Cairo, others say its true reach may have been overstated. In the end, those critics said, the revolutions depended on millions of people taking to the streets.
Ms. al-Nafjan, the Saudi blogger who helped spark the protest against the driving ban, said Change.org offered something beyond the value of simple connectivity.
''On Twitter and Facebook there are all these people who don't know anything; they're just people who are concerned but they don't have any experience or background in how to get the word out,'' said Ms. al-Nafjan, a post-doctoral student living in Riyadh. ''Change.org is more empowering. They assign people to campaigns who know the ins and outs.''
During college, Mr. Rattray organized groups in his dorm to talk about current events and world affairs, said Bradley Myles, who lived in the same dorm as Mr. Rattray and now is the executive director of the Polaris Project, a Washington organization that fights human trafficking.
After Mr. Rattray finished Stanford, he went to the London School of Economics and then returned to Washington to work for a lobbying firm, an experience that he said formed his understanding of political influence.
In an interview, Mr. Rattray, intense and fast-talking, was not forthcoming about his personal politics. He said only that he was a Republican until age 18 and a Democrat through college and has since become an independent.
That coyness reflects a broader issue facing Change.org, which seeks to serve as a neutral platform while also offering to throw its support behind select campaigns for social change. Mr. Rattray said Change.org tried to avoid domestic, partisan issues. The campaigns that it chooses to support are ''more apolitical things that are situations of inequality or justice or a compelling personal narrative,'' he said.
Many of Change.org's employees, who are mostly under 35, seem infused with idealism and swagger. The company seeks issues that its leadership believes can generate buzz and traffic.
''We look at metrics and analytics for ones that are performing the best on the site,'' Mr. Rattray said. ''We look at velocity: which campaigns get the most shares on Facebook and e-mail.''
Change.org shed its nonprofit status and began to break even six months ago, Mr. Rattray said. He said it planned to charge for its more sophisticated services, like building membership for nonprofits seeking to raise money.
Scott Heiferman, the founder of meetup.com, a network that organizes local groups, said Change.org was emerging at a time when an entire generation had grown up believing that the 'like' button on Facebook ''is perhaps the best action you can take when you care about something.''
To succeed, Mr. Heiferman said, Change.org must bridge users' online and offline worlds.
''The Internet is the most powerful tool that humans have ever created,'' he said. ''But we're still in the early days of how that plays out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Rattray, center, in the headquarters of Change.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETITIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CYBERCRIME (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); WRITERS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); BASEBALL (68%); FILM (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



31 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Boycott A Hearing On Trade

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans boycotted a preliminary hearing Thursday on free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama, instead staging a simultaneous press conference and bringing the stop-and-go process to yet another halt.
In an upside-down pair of performances, Democratic senators filled half a hearing room to declare their support for trade deals opposed by much of their party's political base, while Republican senators stood before television cameras to declare that they would not allow a hearing on legislation that much of their own base strongly supports.
Senator Orrin Hatch, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, said Republicans were responding to a decision by the White House to include in the free trade legislation the expansion of a benefits program for workers who lose jobs to foreign competition. 
''We made it clear time and time and time again that we would not stomach attaching a big government spending program onto these agreements,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''The president knew where we stood, and he decided to ignore those who don't agree with him.''
Democrats, in turn, said Republicans were blocking legislation that would help the economy.
''They want the country to be in as bad shape as possible because that might help them electorally,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
The breakdown came less than 48 hours after the Obama administration announced a deal with House Republicans and Senate Democrats over the terms of the benefits program. An expansion passed by Democrats in 2009 lapsed at the beginning of this year. The agreement would reinstate about 60 percent of the lapsed financing for an additional two years.
Democrats had demanded the deal as a condition of their support for the trade agreements. House Republicans agreed reluctantly, after several weeks of negotiations.
The agreement, however, did not include Senate Republicans. Mere minutes before the Senate Finance Committee convened Thursday afternoon to consider the legislative package, the Republican members invoked Senate rules to prevent the meeting.
''That's it,'' said a frustrated Senator Max Baucus, the committee's chairman. ''We're waiting.'' Then, after all the Democrats spoke, they got up and left.
The three free trade agreements, which would eliminate tariffs on cross-border transactions, would expand annual exports of American goods by about $12 billion, according to estimates by the United States International Trade Commission. It would also create new opportunities for American service providers to compete in the three countries.
The pacts were negotiated by the Bush administration and are strongly backed by the United States Chamber of Commerce and other business trade groups. For most of the intervening years, Republicans pressed for a vote on the pacts while Democrats resisted.
The Obama administration, which is focused on expanding trade to invigorate growth, changed that dynamic. It has sought to win Democratic support for the deals through measures to protect American workers from negative consequences.
The compromise reached this week would provide $964 million in additional financing for the benefits program, almost all of which would be spent by 2013.
The Obama administration plans to submit that deal as part of the pact with South Korea, to give Democrats the assurance that it will rise or fall with the pacts.
House Republicans say they will hold separate votes on the trade pact and the benefits program.
Senate Republicans, many of whom oppose any additional financing for the benefits program, and who lack the power to set the terms of debate, said that their actions Thursday were an assertion of the rights of the minority party to be heard and respected.
''We tried everything in our power to work with the majority to find a resolution,'' Mr. Hatch said.
Republicans cannot prevent the legislation from leaving the committee, but they can delay it. Democrats said that continuing to do so would hurt the economy.
''This boycott means the opportunity to pass important job-creation legislation is now delayed,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''American workers -- and our economy -- simply can't afford to wait any longer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



32 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: White House Sees Date For Budget Deal or Bust

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House believes it must strike a budget deal with Congress by July 22 to avoid a risk of defaulting on the national debt, Democratic officials briefed on the negotiations said Thursday, as Senate leaders canceled a recess next week to try to break the deadlock with Republicans.
The July 22 date looms large, the officials said, because it will take lawmakers at least a week to draft a bill and get it through two houses before Aug. 2. That is the day when, officials say, the government will reach its debt ceiling and no longer be able to borrow what it needs to keep operating and repay existing debt. 
President Obama challenged Republicans on Wednesday to accept higher taxes as part of any package to reduce the deficit, a challenge that House Speaker John A. Boehner swiftly rejected. But underneath these fixed positions, the Democratic officials said, were hints of Republican flexibility, which gives the White House hope that it can strike a deal, albeit probably at the last minute.
While they emphasized that no agreement had been reached on any major items, the officials said the two parties were coalescing around $200 billion in cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, trims that Mr. Obama has held up as an example of cuts that will inflict pain on his Democratic base.
The officials also noted that while Republican leaders like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky had ruled out tax increases, they had sometimes used the phrase ''tax rates'' -- which the White House also does not want to raise. The Republicans, they said, have not explicitly ruled out other measures that would generate revenue, like ending tax breaks and loopholes on hedge funds or for the owners of corporate jets -- an interpretation of the Republican position that few Republicans would agree with at this stage.
These tax-related measures being pushed by the White House would generate about $130 billion, a fraction of the roughly $2 trillion in savings over a decade that the White House and Republicans agree is necessary to stave off a debt crisis.
While Republican leaders have not shown enthusiasm for any of these measures, the Democratic officials said, they recognize that passing a bill without some concessions to House Democrats will be difficult, since House Republicans will not be able to corral enough votes on their own to pass a deficit-reduction package.
In his news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Obama chided lawmakers for leaving Washington with a deal undone, comparing them unfavorably to his daughters, Malia and Sasha, who he said finish their homework a day in advance. That rankled some on Capitol Hill, though his words appeared to have hit home.
''We should take responsibility seriously,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said Thursday morning on the Senate floor in announcing the cancellation of the recess next week. ''I'm confident we do.''
The Senate has scheduled a flurry of meetings next week, with Mr. Reid inviting Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to meet with Democrats on Wednesday. The next day, the White House plans to send its economic team to brief Democrats on the state of the negotiations.
Democrats, echoing the president, continued to insist that tax-related revenue would have to be part of the deal.
''We need a willingness on both sides to give a little,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York. ''We've given a lot. The vice president has said more than $1 billion in cuts has already been identified. And that would put us far down the road towards an agreement. The question is how to make up the rest.''
Under the rubric of all revenue is personal, Democrats called for the elimination of $126 million in annual tax breaks for the horse-racing industry that Mr. McConnell secured in the 2008 farm bill.
Democrats dismissed complaints that Mr. Obama had been overly combative, noting that Republicans had demanded that he engage in the bargaining process, and then criticized him as soon as he did.
But Republicans were evidently still smarting from Mr. Obama's chiding tone. Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas even suggested that the president needed some sedation before he resumed discussions with them.
''I remember when he talked to Republicans before, and all we got was a lecture,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''So maybe if he would just take a Valium and calm down and come down and talk to us, it might be helpful.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MEDICARE (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); MEDICAID (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



33 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: To The Limit

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In about a month, if nothing is done, the federal government will hit its legal debt limit. There will be dire consequences if this limit isn't raised. At best, we'll suffer an economic slowdown; at worst we'll plunge back into the depths of the 2008-9 financial crisis.
So is a failure to raise the debt ceiling unthinkable? Not at all. 
Many commentators remain complacent about the debt ceiling; the very gravity of the consequences if the ceiling isn't raised, they say, ensures that in the end politicians will do what must be done. But this complacency misses two important facts about the situation: the extremism of the modern G.O.P., and the urgent need for President Obama to draw a line in the sand against further extortion.
Let's talk about how we got here.
The federal debt limit is a strange quirk of U.S. budget law: since debt is the consequence of decisions about taxing and spending, and Congress already makes those taxing and spending decisions, why require an additional vote on debt? And traditionally the debt limit has been treated as a minor detail. During the administration of former President George W. Bush -- who added more than $4 trillion to the national debt -- Congress, with little fanfare, voted to raise the debt ceiling no less than seven times.
So the use of the debt ceiling to extort political concessions is something new in American politics. And it seems to have come as a complete surprise to Mr. Obama.
Last December, after Mr. Obama agreed to extend the Bush tax cuts -- a move that many people, myself included, viewed as in effect a concession to Republican blackmail -- Marc Ambinder of The Atlantic asked why the deal hadn't included a rise in the debt limit, so as to forestall another hostage situation (my words, not Mr. Ambinder's).
The president's response seemed clueless even then. He asserted that ''nobody, Democrat or Republican, is willing to see the full faith and credit of the United States government collapse,'' and that he was sure that John Boehner, as speaker of the House, would accept his ''responsibilities to govern.''
Well, we've seen how that worked out.
Now, Mr. Obama was right about the dangers of failing to raise the debt limit. In fact, he understated the case, by focusing only on financial confidence.
Not that the confidence issue is trivial. Failure to raise the debt limit -- which would, among other things, disrupt payments on existing debt -- could convince investors that the United States is no longer a serious, responsible country, with nasty consequences. Furthermore, nobody knows what a U.S. default would do to the world financial system, which is built on the presumption that U.S. government debt is the ultimate safe asset.
But confidence isn't the only thing at stake. Failure to raise the debt limit would also force the U.S. government to make drastic, immediate spending cuts, on a scale that would dwarf the austerity currently being imposed on Greece. And don't believe the nonsense about the benefits of spending cuts that has taken over much of our public discourse: slashing spending at a time when the economy is deeply depressed would destroy hundreds of thousands and quite possibly millions of jobs.
So failure to reach a debt deal would have very bad consequences. But here's the thing: Mr. Obama must be prepared to face those consequences if he wants his presidency to survive.
Bear in mind that G.O.P. leaders don't actually care about the level of debt. Instead, they're using the threat of a debt crisis to impose an ideological agenda. If you had any doubt about that, last week's tantrum should have convinced you. Democrats engaged in debt negotiations argued that since we're supposedly in dire fiscal straits, we should talk about limiting tax breaks for corporate jets and hedge-fund managers as well as slashing aid to the poor and unlucky. And Republicans, in response, walked out of the talks.
So what's really going on is extortion pure and simple. As Mike Konczal of the Roosevelt Institute puts it, the G.O.P. has, in effect, come around with baseball bats and declared, ''Nice economy you have here. A real shame if something happened to it.''
And the reason Republicans are doing this is because they must believe that it will work: Mr. Obama caved in over tax cuts, and they expect him to cave again. They believe that they have the upper hand, because the public will blame the president for the economic crisis they're threatening to create. In fact, it's hard to avoid the suspicion that G.O.P. leaders actually want the economy to perform badly.
Republicans believe, in short, that they've got Mr. Obama's number, that he may still live in the White House but that for practical purposes his presidency is already over. It's time -- indeed, long past time -- for him to prove them wrong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EXTORTION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



34 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Fund-Raising Begins Slowly for G.O.P. Candidates

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Kitty Bennett, Derek Willis and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fund-raising by the Republican presidential candidates appears to be off to a slow start this year, hindered by the struggling economy, the absence of a clear and compelling front-runner, and the desire of many of the party's biggest donors to wait and see how the race develops.
Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor who has assembled the field's most robust fund-raising operation, will report raising less than $20 million for the Republican primary during the fund-raising period ending on Thursday, an aide said. That would put Mr. Romney just slightly ahead of his own total during the same period four years ago, when he was new to presidential politics and competing against a more crowded and competitive field. 
Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota will report taking in less than $5 million, said a person close to his campaign, some of which may be earmarked for a future general election campaign and unavailable to Mr. Pawlenty in his battle with other Republican candidates. Even if it were all primary money, that would be far less than any of the first-tier Republican candidates raised during the early stages of the 2008 race, and underscored the difficulty Mr. Pawlenty faces in sustaining a strong challenge to Mr. Romney and the rest of the field.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former American ambassador to China in the Obama administration, entered the race so recently that he is not required to report his second-quarter fund-raising until the fall, one of his campaign aides said. But the aide said Thursday that Mr. Huntsman had raised about $4.1 million for the quarter, though a substantial portion came from his own fortune.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, in an e-mail solicitation to supporters on Thursday morning, said his campaign had raised about $4 million and hoped to raise more by the end of the day.
''But in order for the establishment to stand up and take notice, this reporting period must show the maximum possible money raised,'' Mr. Paul wrote. ''Now, I don't know if we can raise the full $5 million by tonight's deadline -- I set a high goal on purpose. But I know how committed and generous supporters like you are.''
The campaigns are not required to disclose their campaign filings publicly until July 15. At that point, they must tell the Federal Election Commission not only how much they are raising, but how much they are spending, borrowing or lending to themselves. And unofficial figures released by candidates before then do not always capture the full picture of their race for campaign dollars.
Yet those preliminary figures seem to show a Republican field still struggling to bring in dollars in a race that will pit one of them against President Obama, the most successful political fund-raiser in history. During the same quarter in 2007, in a race that started earlier and heated up more quickly, the top 10 Republican candidates had raised a total of about $51 million.
Aides to Mr. Obama declined to release a preliminary figure ahead of the legal reporting deadline. But the campaign had previously set a quarterly goal of $60 million in combined funds raised for Mr. Obama's re-election campaign and the Democratic National Committee. While checks to the campaign are limited to $5,000 per individual -- $2,500 each for the primary season and the general election -- donors to the party committee can give as much as $30,800 each.
The Romney aide, speaking on condition of anonymity because the campaign had not finalized its figures, said that Mr. Romney's expected total did not include any of the candidate's own money and that it was consistent with goals the campaign had set early on.
''We are focused on growing the base of donors that we can count on in the primary,'' the aide said.
A low haul for Mr. Pawlenty could prove more immediately dangerous to the candidate: He does not have a major personal fortune to fall back on in a pinch, as Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Romney do, and he cannot take for granted the kind of national fund-raising network that Mr. Romney built for himself in 2008. Moreover, unlike Mr. Romney, Mr. Pawlenty has committed to entering the Republican straw poll in Iowa this August, an expensive proposition for any candidate.
For Newt Gingrich, whose campaign has been on life support since his top aides resigned en masse in June, a poor fund-raising total could well prove fatal, and a good one revitalizing. An e-mail sent to supporters on Thursday by Joe DeSantis, Mr. Gingrich's spokesman, seemed to acknowledge the stakes.
''In just a few hours, the books will close on Newt 2012's first fund-raising quarter,'' Mr. DeSantis wrote. ''The results of this quarter will be released publicly in a few days. This report will play a major role in shaping the news narrative about the strength of Newt's campaign.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (67%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (78%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



35 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: 2 Ex-Officials Held in Kabul Bank Collapse

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND and ALISSA J. RUBIN; Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Afghan officials said Thursday that they had arrested two former Kabul Bank executives, the first such arrests since its collapse 10 months ago.
According to Rahmatullah Nazari, the deputy attorney general, the authorities arrested Sherkhan Farnood, the bank's former chairman, and Khalilullah Frozi, its former chief executive officer, on Wednesday in connection with what Mr. Nazari said was $900 million in fraudulent loans to bank officers and insiders, many of them politically well connected. Mr. Nazari declined to specify what charges had been brought against the two, but he said they were being held at the Kabul Detention Center for further investigation.
He said other arrests were expected in connection with the case, both among Kabul Bank figures and Central Bank officials. 
The arrests were the first in the Kabul Bank affair since exposure of the bank's huge losses last August. The move is likely to be welcomed by Afghanistan's international backers, which have held up some aid to Afghanistan until government action is taken on Kabul Bank.
Some $900 million in loans were made to insiders with little or no collateral and even no repayment plan in what auditors have described as effectively an extensive Ponzi scheme. Among loan recipients were Mahmoud Karzai, the brother of President Hamid Karzai, and Abdul Haseen Fahim, the brother of the first vice president, Gen. Muhammad Qasim Fahim.
The attorney general also brought charges this week against the governor of Afghanistan's Central Bank, Abdul Qadir Fitrat, accusing him of taking millions in bribes to overlook the Kabul Bank fraud. Mr. Fitrat fled to the United States before the charges were brought, saying he feared for his life because of his own efforts to expose the fraud.
The charges against Mr. Fitrat were filed after Karzai administration officials, as well as Kabul Bank debtors, reacted furiously to an appearance by Mr. Fitrat at the Afghan Parliament, during which he named the prominent people who he said were resisting repayment of their loans.
''The Central Bank officially requested a special prosecution and a special tribunal to try those who have been implicated in fraud, mismanagement, misuse of funds and embezzlement of hundreds of millions of dollars from Kabul Bank,'' Mr. Fitrat said in announcing his resignation on Monday from the United States. ''To date, there is no information of any credible plan to try and prosecute these suspects. There is concern that the powerful individuals involved in this fraud will go unpunished while the Central Bank and its foreign advisers will ultimately be blamed.''
Until he fled Afghanistan, Mr. Fitrat had expressed confidence that the Central Bank would be able to recover much of the $900 million in loans and interest owed to Kabul Bank. On the orders of the Central Bank under Mr. Fitrat, Kabul Bank, the country's largest, was broken into two entities, one a receivership to recover the bad loans, and the other consisting of performing loans, deposits and bank branches, which would eventually be sold.
The International Monetary Fund has refused to renew its credit program for Afghanistan pending action on Kabul Bank, leading to the loss of $70 million in incentive funds so far and blocking other aid programs from many countries. The I.M.F. wants Afghanistan to repay the bank's losses out of its general revenues, rather than from donor money, but the losses potentially equal one year of Afghanistan's total revenues. Western diplomats have said the arrest and prosecution of those responsible for looting Kabul Bank would be a start toward satisfying concerns of the international backers.
Mr. Frozi and Mr. Farnood, both with cellphones, were seen at the detention center with some 15 visitors. They refused to talk to a reporter. ''You destroyed the bank, now you want to destroy the detainees,'' Mr. Frozi said, referring to coverage of the crisis. ''Please leave me alone. Talk to the attorney general's office; they're the ones who did this.'' The prisoners then turned to a game of chess.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); EMBEZZLEMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); PONZI SCHEMES (71%); BRIBERY (64%); RESIGNATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



36 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Playing Make-Believe With Greece

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
If only C. David Ritter had been a central banker, rather than a commercial banker, he could be retiring with praise, rather than facing possible legal liability for following the time-dishonored practice of ''extend and pretend,'' in which bad loans are treated as if they were just fine.
For that is precisely what Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, has successfully demanded be done about Greek national debt.
As the tear gas cleared in Athens this week -- and the Greek Parliament agreed to a new round of austerity that will raise unemployment and prolong a debilitating recession that almost certainly will ensure that the latest fiscal targets are missed -- the critical concern seemed to be making sure that no financial institution will ever have to admit making a bad loan. 
Mr. Ritter was the chief executive of Regions Financial, a ''super-regional'' bank holding company based in Alabama, until he stepped down in 2010 after it became clear the bank was in deep trouble. It lives on, thanks to the bailout, but is the only major American bank not to have repaid the bailout money.
Mr. Trichet will retire later this year after eight years at the helm of the E.C.B., at which time he will surely be praised for his leadership in dealing with the Greek crisis. Mr. Ritter is facing investigations by the Federal Reserve Board and his own bank's audit committee over accusations -- made by former bank officers -- that he and other executives pretended loans were still performing as the financial crisis intensified in 2008. That enabled the bank to keep reporting profits while other banks suffered losses.
As negotiations proceeded in Europe this spring over Greek Bailout II, Mr. Trichet laid down a line in the sand: Nothing must be done to force banks to take losses on the bad loans they have made to Greece.
Just over a year ago, when Greek Bailout I was announced, the assumption was that by next year Greece would again be able to borrow from capital markets. Instead, the economy has continued to plunge, fiscal targets have not been met and rampant tax evasion continues as it always has.
What has changed is the ownership of the debt. Certainly no one who owns Greek bonds now is under the impression they are safe investments, and many investors -- banks and others -- have taken losses and exited. In the spring of 2010, Mr. Trichet seemed surprised by a suggestion that the central bank should buy Greek bonds for its own account. Within days, the bank was doing just that. Add in the dubious collateral the central bank has taken on loans to banks in Greece and elsewhere, and its own balance sheet would not look good at all if Greece defaulted.
But central banks can print money, and I don't want to suggest it is only the bank's self-interest that guides its policies. There is also great fear that many banks in Europe, still recovering from the last crisis, will have to seek another round of bailouts if Greece defaults. And it may be that the banks that still hold Greek debt include some institutions that are least able to bear the risk. Those that sold in the last year had to report losses, something troubled banks are reluctant to do.
It may be worth it to ask for a moment what would have happened if there were no E.C.B. and no euro currency. Greece would probably have defaulted and there would have been a restructuring of its debts. The same would be true of Greek banks. The Greek currency would have plunged in value, impoverishing Greeks who could no longer afford imported goods, but some export businesses would have boomed as their costs collapsed. The economy would be growing by now.
One recent possible precedent comes from, of all places, Kazakhstan. When two of its banks collapsed, there was no bailout available. The country changed its laws to allow bank restructuring, and the resulting negotiations caused lenders to the banks to take losses of more than half their money. In other words, those who lent money to irresponsible borrowers suffered.
Francis Fitzherbert-Brockholes, a London-based partner in the law firm of White & Case, worked on that restructuring, and he questions whether austerity alone can enable Greece to grow and service its enormous debts. He thinks that Greece must get ''some sort of relief'' on its debts or Europe and the International Monetary Fund will just have to keep putting up more money.
There is a case for ''extend and pretend,'' also known as ''delay and pray'' to bankers who sometimes seem better at rhyming then lending. If the borrower's distress is temporary, delay can provide time for recovery. That tactic was used by bank regulators when American banks got into trouble in the early 1990s, and seemed to work, although the fact they did not suffer may have helped encourage the banks to plunge into the new excesses that led to the recent crisis.
But that case works only if there can be a revival. The kind of austerity being asked of Greece is likely to take years to produce results, if it does at all, and some Greeks seem to have concluded that Europe will not dare let them default and that there is really no need for austerity. There is little prospect for the kind of growth that would enable Greece to meet its obligations.
France is now floating a plan to get lenders to accept a ''voluntary'' restructuring not unlike the Brady bonds that helped revive Latin America a generation ago. The lenders would agree to extend the terms of their loans at below-market interest rates, but would get some kind of international guarantee of eventual principal repayments, and, therefore, arguably not need to report losses. The trouble with that precedent, however, is that it worked in Latin America in part through currency devaluations. That is impossible if Greece remains in the euro zone.
''Extend and pretend'' might have worked for Regions as well, if the extent of its bad real estate loans had not been so large. As it was, it served only to delay recognition of the reality, that commercial real estate loans throughout the South were going bad at a rapid rate.
That delay, argues a shareholder class-action suit, allowed the bank's top executives to collect large bonuses based on misleading figures.
A federal judge in Alabama, in an opinion that refused to dismiss that case, disclosed the investigations by the Fed and the bank's audit committee, saying that the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell was working on the committee's investigation. Pointing to statements by former bank officials that senior executives had overruled decisions to classify bad loans as nonperforming, and thus set off losses, United States District Court Judge Inge Prytz Johnson wrote that the allegations ''clearly show that defendants had access to and were aware of a financial situation that was not as strong as they were suggesting to the public.''
As a result, the suit can proceed, perhaps costing the bank -- and Mr. Ritter and two other former senior executives -- substantial judgments. The bank declined to discuss the suit, and Mr. Ritter did not respond to a request for an interview.
The bank, by the way, has not disclosed either investigation, and a spokesman would not comment on whether the judge was right that the investigations were under way. Perhaps the Securities and Exchange Commission should consider another investigation, about that failure to disclose.
In the case of Greece, of course, there is no lack of disclosure about the problems. Greece did lie about its budget deficits to get into the euro zone in 2001, but that has been known for years. It is not the lenders who are being misled. It is they who wish to pretend the problem is not as bad as it is.
Unfortunately, that refusal to acknowledge losses may be making it even harder for Greece -- and Europe -- to come up with the least painful way out of this mess.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, head of the European Central Bank, has fought making Greece's creditors take losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECESSION (76%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); AUDITS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); TAX FRAUD (64%); HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) GREECE (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



37 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Hippies

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What do they know about money?

 BODY:
Noted:
Don't expect the economy to perk up any time soon.
The U.S. and Europe are set to grow at an anemic pace for the foreseeable future unless the government can step in with an enormous fiscal stimulus, according to a veteran investor.
Speaking exclusively with The Wall Street Journal, Barton Biggs, managing partner at multibillion dollar hedge fund Traxis Partners, painted a bleak outlook for the developed world with only huge government intervention likely to improve things.
...
Mr. Biggs, former chief global strategist for U.S. investment banking powerhouse Morgan Stanley, demanded the U.S. government temporarily return to ideas used in the Great Depression as a way to get the country back to higher growth.
"What the U.S. really needs is a massive infrastructure program similar to the WPA back in the 1930s," he says.
The plan would be to employ some of the many unemployed people, jump start the economy, as well as help catch up with Asia, which is building state-of-the-art infrastructure from new mechanized port facilities to high-speed trains.
He suggested financing such building through the sale of U.S. Treasuries.
But as we know, only bearded hippies professors who don't know anything about the real world of big money say things like this.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); US DOLLAR (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (52%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (51%); TRAINS (51%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



38 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Empty Plates for Low-Income Seniors

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Nutrition programs for the elderly, needed now more than ever, may face cutbacks in federal funding.

 BODY:
There's a long list of reasons that older people suffer malnutrition and weight loss, a geriatrician recently told a Senate subcommittee on health and aging: smell and taste diminishing with age, high rates of depression, medications that that suppress appetite or upset stomachs, disabilities that make it hard to shop and cook.
But at the same hearing, an official with Government Accountability Office pointed out another, perhaps more basic problem: poverty.
What a new G.A.O. report calls "food insecurity" remains stubbornly high among seniors with low incomes. In 2009, about 19 percent of households with a low-income person over age 60 faced this problem -- meaning that the older adult was uncertain of having enough food or unable to acquire enough.
In elderly households below the poverty line, nearly a third suffer food insecurity, the G.A.O. found, and in 17 percent of them an older person had to eat less at some point in the past year because he or she simply couldn't afford food.
The demand for help is growing, too. The great majority of local agencies on aging are receiving increased requests for home-delivered meals, and nearly half are experiencing greater need for congregate meals, like those served at senior centers, according to the G.A.O.
While the increased need appears to stem partly from the recession and its ongoing effects, the report attributes some of it to seniors staying in their homes longer instead of moving into assisted living or nursing homes, thus placing greater strains on meal delivery programs. Talk about the law of unintended consequences.
For nearly 40 years, the Older Americans Act has kept hunger among seniors from becoming an even worse problem. Its nutrition programs delivered meals to more than 880,000 homebound people in 2009, according to Kathy Greenlee, who heads the federal Administration on Aging and who testified at the Senate hearing. Another 1.7 million seniors received congregate meals, she said.
A sense of anxiety percolated through the hearing. The Older Americans Act is up for reauthorization, and it's telling that several witnesses -- as well as Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who chairs the subcommittee -- were careful to portray nutritional programs for the elderly in economic as well as ethical terms. They deserve to their appropriations, various officials said, because poor nutrition inexorably leads to poor health, which leads to hospitals and nursing homes and other responses that cost taxpayers a lot more than meals on wheels.
The G.A.O. report calls for greater efficiency in nutrition programs: some overlap or duplicate services, raising administrative costs, or frustrate recipients by requiring multiple applications to multiple programs. Given the agency's prediction that the need for meals among the low-income elderly will continue to outpace the available programs, that's an important caution.
But reducing nutrition programs available through the Older Americans Act is a scary prospect. Whether they're delivered to the door or served in senior centers, these simple meals, hardly elaborate productions, constitute more than half the day's food for most of the seniors who receive them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (92%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); AGING (91%); ELDER HEALTH (90%); MALNUTRITION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); NUTRITION (90%); GERIATRICS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); DIETING (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); MEALS ON WHEELS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); ETHICS (69%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (69%) nutrition; Diet and Nutrition; Elder Care; Elderly; Medical Issues

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



39 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Finra Executives Get Big Payday

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Richard G. Ketchum, chairman of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, earned $2.6 million in 2010, including a $1.2 million bonus, according to a new filing.

 BODY:
Wall Street's self-policing organization is getting richer - and so are its top executives. 
Richard G. Ketchum, chairman and chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, earned $2.6 million in 2010, according to a new filing. His pay, which included a $1.2 million bonus, was roughly the same in 2009. 
 Finra, a private nonprofit organization that regulates more than 600,000 stockbrokers, upped its total compensation 9 percent last year to $540 million, as it added some 200 new employees to its ranks. The organization's top 10 executives received nearly $13 million, up from roughly $11 million the year before, the organization's annual report shows. 
Finra says it offers big paydays to compete with compensation on Wall Street.
"Finra strives to have a compensation structure that is competitive with the comparable segment of the market," Mr. Ketchum said in an interview earlier this year. "We have engaged an outside consultant, Mercer, that benchmarks salaries at Finra to make sure they are competitive with that market, but not excessive."
But some brokerage firms, which pay for the watchdog's operations through fees, have complained that Finra executives are overpaid. Regulators, they argue, should not earn millions of dollars. 
Finra drew particular scrutiny after awarding a previous chief executive, Mary L. Schapiro, $7.3 million in 2009, when she left the organization to become chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. That same year, a small brokerage firm in Moreno Valley, Calif., sued Finra to rein in its pay packages at a time when the regulator was losing money on bad investments. 
But Finra, born out of the 2007 merger between the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock Exchange's regulatory arm, is now back in the black. The organization turned a $54.6 million profit in 2010, up 12 percent from a year earlier, according to the annual report that was filed this week. Finra lost nearly $700 million at the height of the financial crisis, as its investment portfolio soured.
Now, Finra's investments and trading revenue are driving the recent earnings growth, according to the annual report. In the aftermath of the crisis, Finra shifted its investment portfolio to a lower-risk strategy, which includes mutual funds and hedge funds. 
"Financially, 2010 was a sound year overall," Mr. Ketchum said in the report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%) Executive Compensation; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; Ketchum, Richard G; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (99%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Financial Industry Regulatory Authority

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



40 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: Weathering Wall Street's Job Cuts

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: DealBook's Susanne Craig speaks to a Reuters Breakingviews editor, Rob Cox, and a columnist, Antony Currie, about cutbacks in staff and compensation on Wall Street. How does the current round of layoffs and austerity in the financial industry compare with the "Armageddon" at the height of the financial crisis?

 BODY:
DealBook's Susanne Craig speaks to a Reuters Breakingviews editor, Rob Cox, and a columnist, Antony Currie, about cutbacks in staff and compensation on Wall Street. How does the current round of layoffs and austerity in the financial industry compare with the "Armageddon" at the height of the financial crisis?

        
Goldman Sachs Prepares to Cut Jobs
        
Bonus Cuts, Pay Raises, Then Layoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (82%) Layoffs; Wall Street; Banking and Financial Institutions; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Wall Street (NYC); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Video

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Wall Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



41 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Richer People Want Fewer Children

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Support for the theory that children are, economically speaking, "inferior goods."

 BODY:
The economist Justin Wolfers wrote a provocative post last month arguing that children are "inferior goods."
For most goods -- "normal goods" -- people desire more of them as their income increases. But for inferior goods (like rice) people tend to consume less as they get richer and are able to afford more desirable and expensive goods (like steak).
Professor Wolfers used the chart below as one piece of evidence for this theory. It plots each country's per capita income against how many children the average woman in that country has:
As you can see, there is a strong inverse correlation between wealth and childbearing.
Another report, released Thursday by Gallup, may provides further support for Professor Wolfers's hypothesis.
Since 1936, Gallup has been asking Americans about the "ideal number of children" they believe a family should have. And over the last 75 years, as Americans have gotten wealthier, more and more of them have said they desire fewer children:
As you can see, since 1977, most Americans have said having no more than two children is ideal. I should note also that Americans have been making good on those desires, and the fertility rate has fallen greatly over the last half-century.
Even within the populace today, preferences for brood size correlate with income, Gallup found.
Only a third of people with annual household incomes over $75,000 say they want families with three or more children. Of all Americans with income levels below $75,000, 44 percent say they want families with at least three children.
In Lake Wobegone all children may be above average, but across America, children appear to be inferior -- at least economically speaking.

        
Preferring Boys to Girls
        
Rich People Still Don't Realize They're Rich
        
Babies Cost More Than Condoms
        
Reader Feedback: Work and Parenthood
        
Don't Worry, Working Moms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FERTILITY RATES (69%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (69%); EVIDENCE (56%) children; family economics; Gallup; Income; inferior goods; Justin Wolfers; Children and Youth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



42 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Podcast: Executive Pay, the World Bank and Twitter's New Home

BYLINE: DAN NIEMI


HIGHLIGHT: A look at the latest Weekend Business podcast, and a listen.

 BODY:
Big paydays are back for American chief executives.
In a cover article in the Sunday Business section, P.J. Joshi reports that a study conducted for The New York Times by Equilar, an executive compensation data firm, showed that the median pay for top executives at 200 big companies last year was $10.8 million, a gain of 23 percent from 2009. In the new Weekend Business podcast, David Gillen and Ms. Joshi discuss the trends in C.E.O. pay, which hasn't returned to its heady, prerecession levels, but certainly seems on its way there. Pay skyrocketed last year because many companies brought back cash bonuses, which jumped 38 percent.
And at a time of so much tumult in the media business, it might be surprising that some executives in media and communications were among the most richly rewarded last year, led by Philippe P. Dauman, the chief of Viacom, who made $84.5 million after signing a new long-term contract that included one-time stock awards.
In a separate podcast conversation, Stephanie Strom discusses a quiet revolution under way at the World Bank, whose traditional role has been to finance specific projects that foster economic development. In an article for Sunday Business, she reports that the bank's president, Robert B. Zoellick, argues that its most valuable currency isn't its money - it is its information. For more than a year, the bank has been releasing its prized data sets - previously available only to paying subscribers, mostly governments and researchers - with all sorts of information about the developing world. Whatever its accuracy or biases, this data essentially defines the economic reality of billions of people and is used in making policies and decisions with an enormous impact on their lives. 
Meanwhile, in a closely watched experiment, San Francisco is offering tax breaks to technology companies that move their offices to the city's blighted neighborhoods. Twitter will be the first to take advantage of the program when it moves into new offices on a particularly desolate section of Market Street next year. Phyllis Korkki and Damon Darlin discuss whether those urban employees, accustomed to never leaving their offices in Silicon Valley, will leave the building often enough to significantly improve the neighborhood. 
You can find specific segments of the podcast at these junctures: executive compensation (22:27); news summary (15:21); the World Bank (12:54); the streets of San Francisco (6:11); the week ahead (1:16).
As articles discussed in the podcast are published during the weekend, links will be added to this post.
You can download the program by subscribing from The New York Times's podcast page or directly from iTunes.

        
Podcast: Stimulus, Shutdown and Executive Pay
        
Podcast: Creating Jobs, and Juggling Them
        
Podcast: I.B.M., Diamonds and Paying for Medicare
        
Podcast: Dodd-Frank, Housing and Europe's Power Banker
        
Podcast: Job Woes, Pet Boom and Annuity Puzzle 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PODCASTING (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); RELOCATIONS (67%); CURRENCIES (66%); TAX LAW (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) Executive Compensation (Des);; executive pay; podcast; San Francisco; Weekend Business; World Bank; Executive Compensation; Relocation of Business; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Wages and Salaries; Twitter; San Francisco (Calif)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter; World Bank

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



43 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: Why to Be Nice to Medical Receptionists

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Hotel chains offer bikes to guests, local laws fighting fat come under siege, why you should be nice to the medical receptionist and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.

 BODY:
A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and online in our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet. Manhattan sees rise in high-end housing sales. (New York) Local laws fighting fat come under siege. (Business) Medicare will continue to cover two costly cancer drugs. (Business) It's a wage-less, but profitable, recovery. (Economix) Amazon fights tax collectors in California. (Bits) Scientists see upward tick in U.S. temperatures. (Green) Why you should be nice to the medical receptionist. (Well) Hotel chains offer bikes for local cruising. (In Transit)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); HOTEL CHAINS (84%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); CANCER DRUGS (54%) Best of Times

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



44 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Dead in the Water?

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO


HIGHLIGHT: The bizarre controversy surrounding the flotilla to Gaza gets washed ashore in Greece.

 BODY:
Like they don't already have enough problems.
Greece, the country that is ever revered as the cradle of democracy, philosophy and pretty much the entirety of Western civilization (no oxymoron jokes, please), is having a tough year. A recent economic near-collapse, European bailout, the difficult passage of a raft of unpopular austerity measures and, of course, angry demonstrations, protests and bloody riots in the streets have tested the country's fortitude. The fact that the world is still forcing its high school kids to read Plato's "Republic" can hardly be of any solace right now.Now Greece finds itself squarely in the middle of yet another unwanted international crisis as the home base for the flotilla that has launched a thousand accusations and recriminations, but so far, no actual ships.
The organizers of the group of eight ships now docked in Greek waters, which are carrying hundreds of pro-Palestinian activists from several countries, including dozens of Americans (among them, the novelist Alice Walker), announced plans to sail to Gaza to deliver humanitarian aid in defiance of Israel's naval blockade there. As of today, they have not. (Two more ships withdrew because of damage, reportedly the work of saboteurs.) After weeks of an international public relations war involving misinformation, condemnations, ominous warnings, video hoaxes, nautical sabotage and more, Greece announced on Friday that is was prohibiting the boats from sailing. The Coast Guard was forced into action when an American vessel called The Audacity of Hope left the harbor without permission and had to be turned back. A protest organizer complained that Greece was not within its rights to stop private ships from sailing. 
Last year, nine Turkish activists were killed by Israeli forces on a similar mission. 
Scott Sayare of The Times reported the latest on Friday, and quoted one activist, who described the situation this way: "It's like they've moved the blockade from Gaza to Greece."
So with events, for the moment, at a standstill, and poor Greece saddled with another, albeit less ominous problem, we may take a moment to ask essential questions: Is it a "freedom" flotilla, a "peace" flotilla or, as some have called it, a "provocation" flotilla? Who has been telling the truth? And, what is all this really about? 
To be honest, no amount of time spent in the blogosphere this week could definitively answer those questions, but the commentary surrounding the events, in its very wild inconsistency, at least gives an inkling of the positions staked out. 
At the crux: the pro-Israeli position that the flotilla is engaged in an act of provocation, even aggression, not humanitarian aid, versus the pro-Palestinian position that the blockade is unjustified, if not illegal, and represents a brutal suppression and denial of basic goods to residents of Gaza, to be partly and symbolically addressed by their mission.
At The Daily Beast, Dan Ephron put the situation in the perspective of the age-old message war between the two parties. "In trying to understand the brewing confrontation this time,"" he wrote, "it's helpful to keep one thing in mind: The cargo that activists hope to deliver to Gaza in the coming days is beside the point. Palestinians don't necessarily need it and Israel is not threatened by it." He continued: 
Like with so many other issues Israeli-Palestinian related, these actions are mainly to score points in the public relations battle. The activists are hoping to put a spotlight on the Gaza blockade by provoking another confrontation on the high seas. Israel wants to deflect attention from the siege policy by depicting the organizers as terrorists and their campaign as a mission to help arm Hamas. In recent days, Israel appears to have pressed even its vaunted spy agencies into the service of obstructing the other side. Flotilla organizers say someone sabotaged two of their ships currently docked in Greece. For both sides, the uproar created by events like the flotilla operation tend to cloud the more germane issues.
At his blog on Wednesday, Max Blumenthal took the Israeli military to task for what he said went beyond public relations into the realm of pure misinformation, for ascribing violent intent to the activists, then broadcasting it: 
Despite an apparent lack of evidence, the army's disinformation found its way into top Israeli newspapers through a select group of military correspondents including the Jerusalem Post's Yaakov Katz. Katz reported that flotilla passengers planned to kill Israeli soldiers and that they were bringing "bags of sulfur" to attack the soldiers. ... Yedioth Aharanot's Hanan Greenberg also reported, "IDF fears flotilla activists will try to kill Israeli soldiers." And Haaretz hyped the claim in Hebrew.
Today, the army's story was exposed as disinformation. First, Yedioth Aharonot military correspondent Alex Fishman reported, "There is no information that there is going to be a group of radicals on board that will form a hard core of violent resistance against IDF soliders. Nor is there any clear information about live weapons that will be on board the ships." Then, a group of Israeli government ministers accused the army of "media spin" and "public relations hysteria" for claiming the flotilla passengers planned to attack soldiers with chemical weapons. ... Unfortunately, many reporters still accept the army's claims on trust, while others do not even bother to investigate.
(Perhaps the most bizarre misinformation incident was this video hoax, reported on by The Lede's Robert Mackey, in which an Israeli actor claims to be a gay activist who was banned from the flotilla.)
Juan Cole at Informed Comment drew a connection between the flotilla activists and the civil rights movement in the United States: 
The US State Department shamefully fully supports the blockade and the collective punishment, and is threatening US citizens who participate in the attempt to break the siege of Gaza's children (40% of residents are children). The Israeli Right wing portrays the blockade as a measure against the Hamas Party, which won the 2006 elections for the Palestine Authority. But blockading 1.5 million civilian noncombatants to get out a few thousand party activists and militiamen is illegal, especially for the Occupying Power (which Israel is, since it controls Gaza's air and water and prevents Palestinians from entering a wide swathe of their own land). ...
Since the blockade is both illegal and evil, and since the world Establishment, including the US government, is enabling it, it is only natural that upstanding Americans and members of other nations want to challenge it. It should be remembered that the Civil Rights movement in the United States was mostly illegal and its activists were frequently jailed, beaten, bitten by police dogs, and sometimes shot down by law enforcement.
It's not inconceivable that Cole may have gotten an inkling of that connection after reading Alice Walker's explanation on CNN last week of why she decided to join the action: 
Alongside this image of brave followers of Gandhi there is for me an awareness of paying off a debt to the Jewish civil rights activists who faced death to come to the side of black people in the South in our time of need. I am especially indebted to Michael Schwerner and Andrew Goodman who heard our calls for help - our government then as now glacially slow in providing protection to non-violent protestors-and came to stand with us.
They got as far as the truncheons and bullets of a few "good ol' boys" of Neshoba County, Mississippi and were beaten and shot to death along with James Cheney, a young black man of formidable courage who died with them. So, even though our boat will be called The Audacity of Hope, it will fly the Goodman, Cheney, Schwerner flag in my own heart.
That prompted a direct response from Howard Jacobson, also at CNN: "Human beings are seldom more dangerous than when they are sentimentally overcome by the goodness of their own intentions. That Alice Walker believes it is right to join the Freedom Flotilla II to Gaza I do not have the slightest doubt. But beyond associating her decision with Gandhi, Martin Luther King and very nearly, when she talks about the preciousness of children, Jesus Christ, she fails to give a single convincing reason for it."
How to make it all better? The counterintuitive solution of the week goes to Roi Ben-Yehuda, for his post, "Conflict Resolution Commandos: A Response to the Flotilla," in which he imagines real life soldiers of peace: 
As scholars of conflict resolution, we believe that such situations call for constructive adaptation on the part of those involved. To that end we propose the IDF take initiative and create the first ever Conflict Resolution Commando unit. Imagine back in 2010 if instead of masked men with guns, trained for intense warfare at sea, boarding a ship in the dead of night, the IDF had dispatched an elite unit of conflict resolution specialists. Could the tragedy at sea been averted? Could it be that new tools must be designed to maximize the possibility of non-destructive outcome to occur? Could it be that a fundamental reframing to many situations could be offered by people willing to die for a cause but not willing to kill for it?
Interesting thought. But it's not exactly the Hoplite phalanx.

        
No Disrespect
        
A U.N. Plan for Israel
        
Goldstone's Gaza
        
Mapping Israeli Settlements on the West Bank
        
Weekend Opinionator: The Battle Over the Battle in Gaza

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); RIOTS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Gaza; Greece; Israel; Mideast; Palestinians; Walker, Alice; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Relations; Gaza Strip; The Thread

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: Walker, Alice

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); TURKEY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Gaza Strip; Greece; Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



45 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: In a Twist, Loggers Nurture Spotted Owls

BYLINE: WILLIAM YARDLEY


HIGHLIGHT: As spotted owl populations decline, owl and forest advocates are trying to find creative ways to preserve and restore more habitat -- even if it means accepting logging on lands they would rather see left alone.

 BODY:
As I reported in Friday's Times, the release this week of a final recovery plan for the northern spotted owl came more than 20 years after the bird was first listed as a threatened species.
It so happens that over that same period of time, a stand of evergreens in a remote forest in the Cascade Range could grow from being a relatively young 45 years old to a more mature 65 years old. Experts say that window of growth could be just enough time for the stand to evolve into habitat that attracts spotted owls.
While some federal and state forests are managed to achieve that goal, owners of private forest land are less likely to do the same. The average growth cycle before many private timber stands are harvested in the Northwest is often closer to 45 years, to maximize the commercial value of the land.
Besides, if private timberlands grow to where they attract spotted owls, protections for the owl might kick in and the landowner could lose the ability to harvest timber.
"It's one of those 'build it and they will come' things,'" said Blake Murden, the director of wildlife and fisheries for Port Blakely Tree Farms here in Washington state. "That was the fear."The recovery plan, announced on Thursday, tries to address this dilemma by providing incentives for private forest owners to cultivate spotted owl habitat while still making it possible to log nearby lands if the cultivated stands attract owls.
Port Blakely is one of a small number of timber companies that is already involved in such a program, called a safe harbor agreement. The company entered into an agreement in 2009, five years after buying 45,000 acres abutting the Gifford-Pinchot National Forest in southwest Washington.
Port Blakely prefers a longer "rotation age" for much of its timber, about 60 to 70 years. The extra growth can provide for larger diameter and a different quality of wood that attracts different buyers, including companies that make utility and transmission poles. But when the company bought the land in 2004, it knew that if it managed the land the way it wanted to, it had the potential to attract owls from known nesting areas on nearby federal land.
"What we didn't want to do is have to change our management style," Mr. Murden said. "So we started brainstorming."
That led to the safe harbor agreement, which is to remain in place for 60 years. At least on paper, the idea is that the company will cultivate the land for owls at the same time it cultivates it for timber harvest. And if owls appear -- they have yet to do so -- the company will have more flexibility to harvest timber nearby while avoiding land close to the birds.
Mr. Murden said the goal, besides corporate stability, is to create "a stepping stone for dispersing owls," young birds moving out from nests on protected lands where they may have been born.
"We'll create habitat," he said, "but we won't be penalized for creating habitat."
Paula Swedeen, who surveyed spotted owls in the early 1990s and now works for the Pacific Forest Trust, a nonprofit conservation group, said safe harbor agreements reflect an evolution on the part of timber companies but also conservation groups.
As spotted owl populations decline by an average of 3 percent each year, owl and forest advocates are trying to find creative ways to preserve and restore more habitat -- even if it means accepting logging on lands they would rather see left alone.
"In this political and economic climate," Dr. Swedeen said, "it's a really hard sell to say all we're going to do is put the hammer down."

        
Bluefin Tuna and Ethical Dining
        
Albatross Is a Mother at 60
        
Take a Number, Mr. Walrus
        
Malaysian Forest Ebbing at Rapid Rate, Report Says
        
Pledge on Sharks Proved Hollow, Report Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (90%); BIRDS (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (77%); LAND RECLAMATION (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FISHERIES (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (56%) Cacade Range; northern spotted owl; Port Blakely; spotted owl; threatened species; Washington (State); Endangered and Extinct Species; Forests and Forestry; Land Use Policies; Logging Industry; Owls; Wood and Wood Products; Business; forests; Politics and Policy; wildlife

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



46 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Debt Ceiling Date Does Not Budge

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: August 2 is still the last day the government will be able to pay all its bills, according to a new Treasury estimate.

 BODY:
The August 2 debt ceiling deadline is holding firm. The Treasury Department said Friday morning that its latest estimates still show that's the date the government will exhaust its ability to pay all of its bills, unless Congress agrees to raise the total amount that the United States can borrow.
"Secretary Geithner urges Congress to avoid the catastrophic economic and market consequences of a default crisis by raising the statutory debt limit in a timely manner," the department said in a statement issued in the name of Mary Miller, the assistant secretary for financial markets.
Congressional Republicans say they will increase the borrowing limit only if Democrats agree to a plan to reduce the federal deficit. Democrats say any such plan must include revenue increases. The two sides have been locked in a stand-off for several months. The White House now is warning that a deal must be reached by mid-July in order to leave enough for the necessary legislation to be written and passed into law.

        
On Debt Talks, Now It's Obama and Boehner
        
Senate Democrats Seek Ouster of Banking Regulator
        
McConnell Thinking Big on Entitlements
        
The Early Word: Fighting Words
        
Democrats Press Boehner on Debt Ceiling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); BANKING LAW (66%) debt ceiling; Treasury Department; National Debt (US); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



47 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Central Labor Council Elects New President

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: Vincent Alvarez will be the group's first full-time president, and its first Hispanic one.

 BODY:
The New York City Central Labor Council - the umbrella organization for the city's more than one million union members - announced on Friday that it had elected a new president who will be its first Hispanic and first full-time president.
At a meeting Thursday night, 318 council delegates voted unanimously to elect Vincent Alvarez, a Brooklyn native who vowed to re-energize the union and its members after decades of the council's being a minor player in city affairs.
"I'm honored to be able to lead the largest labor council in this country," Mr. Alvarez, 42, said in an interview on Friday. "It's a very difficult time for workers in this city and this country." He replaced Jack Ahern, who resigned in March amid accusations of improper spending. 
Mr. Alvarez, who is leaving his post as deputy legislative director of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that his role would include being a spokesmen and champion for the city's embattled workers, private sector and public sector, especially when the mayor and governor have been demanding concessions on wages and benefits.
"Workers in every sector are facing unacceptable levels of unemployment, attacks on pensions, health benefits and collective bargaining, and we have levels of income disparity that we haven't seen since the 1920s," Mr. Alvarez said. "These are all serious problems, and they require a full response."
He added, "We obviously look forward to working with the mayor and governor to reach solutions to very complex issues, but in a way that protects workers because we keep seeing this unprecedented attack on working people." 
Mr. Alvarez, whose father emigrated from Cuba, is a graduate of Monsignor Farrell High School on Staten Island and of the State University of New York at Oneonta, where he majored in business economics. A member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, he worked for 17 years as an electrician, often repairing street lights.
He became the city labor council's chief of staff in 2007 and quit that post last year - he said on Friday that it was "a professional decision" to move to a good opportunity with the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
But three other labor officials have said that he resigned from the labor council because he had clashed with the council's previous president, Jack Ahern, about Mr. Ahern's excessive spending of council funds, including ordering expensive bottles of wine at lunch and hiring a stretch limousine to take his family to the St. Patrick's Day Parade.
 The council has been badly embarrassed in recent year because Mr. Ahern was pushed into resigning over his spending practices and because another recent president, Brian M. McLaughlin, was sentenced to 10 years in prison after being convicted of embezzling more than $2 million.
As the labor council's first full-time director, Mr. Alvarez said he hoped to transform the labor council into a heavyweight organization like the Los Angeles Central Labor Council, which plays a major role in that's city's affairs and politics, city affairs, sponsors many protests and throws its weight behind many organizing drives. 
For Mr. Ahern, the job was part time - he was also head of an operating engineers' union local. It was similarly part time for Mr. McLaughlin, who also served as a state assemblyman and held a senior position with Local 3 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 
Mr. Alvarez said, "I think there's going to be a wholesale change, because it will be a full-time position so the president will be on the ground every day, working to service the affiliates and out there advocating for workers on their issues."
On Thursday, the council's delegates also elected Janella Hinds, a member of the United Federation of Teachers, to fill the newly created position of secretary-treasurer.
After being elected Thursday night, Mr. Alvarez said: "Our city, state and country are continuing to struggle through one of the most difficult economic periods in the last 80 years. And during that time, we have seen workers suffer dramatically. It's time the New York City labor movement raises its collective voice and says 'enough is enough' to policies that adversely affect working people."

        
New Leader at Labor Council Had Earlier Quit in Protest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); WORKPLACE MORALE (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); LITIGATION (65%); EMBEZZLEMENT (63%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); SENTENCING (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) Jack Ahern; New York City Central Labor Council; Vincent Alvarez; Alvarez, Vincent; Labor and Jobs; Central Labor Council; New York City; Highlights; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%) Central Labor Council

PERSON: Alvarez, Vincent

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



48 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Stage Announces Fall Lineup

BYLINE: FELICIA R. LEE


HIGHLIGHT: Harlem Stage will give a new dance work by choreographers Nora Chipaumire and Jawole Willa Jo Zollar its world premiere in October, and the D.J. Rich Medina will transform Harlem Stage Gatehouse into a space to celebrate the life of Fela Kuti with music, dance and conversation on Nov. 19.

 BODY:
Harlem Stage, the multidisciplinary performing arts center supporting artists of color that has made a huge name for itself while managing to weather the recent economic storms, announced on Friday its fall 2011 season of new dance, film, theater and music. Among the highlights are "Visible," a new work by choreographers Nora Chipaumire and Jawole Willa Jo Zollar, which will have its world premiere Oct. 10-15 at the Harlem Stage Gatehouse. Two new editions of the WeDaPeoplesCabaret will jump-start the Uptown Nights series in September. Carl Hancock Rux is the curator on Sept. 17, with a program featuring Nona Hendryx, the political monologist Reno and the author and producer Nelson George. The Grammy-nominated trumpeter Christian Scott will offer two nights with his quintet on Oct. 28 and Oct. 29. The D.J. Rich Medina will transform the Harlem Stage Gatehouse into a space to celebrate the life of Fela Anikulapo Kuti on Nov. 19 with music, dance and conversation. On Nov. 10, as part of its Harlem Stride - Community Concert series in partnership with the Weill Music Institute of Carnegie Hall, the Grammy nominee Miguel Zenon leads his quintet in a program featuring music by great songwriters from Puerto Rico. Tickets are free. Ticket prices for most Harlem Stage performances are $20 or less; some are free and generally don't go higher than $45.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); FILM (78%); SONG WRITING (72%); TICKET SALES (65%) Harlem Stage; Culture (Arts); Harlem (NYC); arts general; dance; Music; Theater

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Harlem Stage

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Harlem (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



49 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Extra Savage

BYLINE: MARK OPPENHEIMER


HIGHLIGHT: This is surely an uncomfortable piece for some married couples to read together. As I write in the story, in every marriage there are things best left unsaid.

 BODY:
I discovered Dan Savage, the subject of my cover story this weekend, in 2004, when I became editor of the alternative weekly paper in New Haven. I did not know much about alt weeklies, and to get ideas I looked around for some of the best. Somebody said I had to check out The Stranger, the bigger of Seattle's two alt weeklies. So I e-mailed the editor, who was this Dan Savage guy. I figured that couldn't be his real name; it was probably some alt weekly stunt. But "Dan Savage" sent me a bunch of issues, and the paper was brilliant: smart, good-looking, edgy. Inside, the editor wrote a really good sex column called Savage Love, and I asked my publisher if we could drop our syndicated sex column and replace it with Savage Love. "Can't," he said. "Too dirty. People would object." That was about all I knew of Dan Savage for the next couple years, although occasionally I would see links to Savage's work on Andrew Sullivan's blog.
Then, all of a sudden, Savage was following me, or maybe I was following him. I started listening (later than most of my friends) to "This American Life," and so I heard Savage's radio essays (this one is a classic). I read this amazing piece in Mother Jones magazine, about how Dan Savage has pretty much destroyed the presidential chances of the former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum. (Quick synopsis: angry about Santorum's antigay comments, Savage held a contest among his blog readers to coin a definition for the word "santorum"; the winning definition is very, very dirty, and it resides at santorum.com, a URL that Savage squatted on. People who hear nice things about Santorum and think, Let me check him out, Google the man's name, and this no-good, dirty, obscene Web site pops up first in the search results.) Then Savage and his husband started the It Gets Better campaign to help gay youth. And so forth and so on.
The piece running on Sunday began as a profile of Dan Savage, one that I figured would have three legs to its tripod: sex columnist, Enemy of Santorum and It Gets Better dude. I wrote that piece as my first draft, and I think it was pretty good. There are things I miss about that draft: the conversation with Savage's older brother Bill, a college English professor who, like Dan, has an unusual romantic partnership; the story, first told on "This American Life," of how Savage infiltrated a local Republican convention and made mischief (he is a great political prankster); more about his history with Terry, and about their adoption of DJ; more about his own childhood in Chicago; and the fact that in drag he went by the name Miss Helvetica Bold.
But in a way that piece sold Savage short. Because Savage is a serious idea man, and I think that comes out in the essay I ultimately wrote. He has no formal academic training in history or queer theory or literature - he was a theater major at Illinois - but he has developed a coherent philosophy of sexuality in marriage that anticipates objections from the radical gay-liberation left and from the Christian, and secular but traditionalist, right. He has never produced a single, complete work propounding his views on sex and marriage, but his oeuvre is his columns, and to read hundreds of them is to encounter somebody who has grappled, intelligently, with the same questions that Andrew Sullivan and Jonathan Rauch answer in their erudite books.
So yes, I am glad this turned into an ideas piece. It is an imperfect one, of course. I did not consider religious objections to Savage's ideas, and I should have. I also did not, as commenters on nytimes.com have noted, acknowledge that infidelity can harm others outside the marriage, like a mistress or boyfriend or spouse of the unfaithful person. I am sure over the next few days people will bring more omissions to my attention. (Please do!)
A final note: This is surely an uncomfortable piece for some married couples to read together. As I write in the story, in every marriage there are things best left unsaid. I have already received one e-mail from a man who thinks he cannot handle monogamy, has wanted permission to take a mistress, but has been unable to raise the subject with his wife. Now, he tells me, he knows how to raise the subject gently: show her my article. That e-mail leaves me with a queasy feeling. I don't enjoy being part of his wife's pain. I believe in marriage, my own and other people's. I think children belong, ideally, with two parents under one roof. I was able to write this piece only because I know Savage agrees with me.

        
Lust in the Classroom
        
Sexual Economics 101

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WRITERS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Dan Savage; infidelity; Marriage; Sex; Savage, Dan; Homosexuality; Marriages; Writing and Writers

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (79%) Savage, Dan

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



50 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: What's a Crisis and What Isn't

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Focusing on employment policies and job creation is more urgent than developing a longer-term strategy to close the budget deficit, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Laura D'Andrea Tyson is a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and served as chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton.
Long term, the United States faces a fiscal challenge that must be tackled -- but it is not an immediate fiscal emergency. In the labor market, though, there is an immediate crisis, the worst since the Great Depression. 
According to the latest estimates from the Congressional Budget Office, if current fiscal policies are maintained, federal debt held by the public could rise to an unprecedented 187 percent of gross domestic product in 2035 from 62 percent of gross domestic product at the end of 2010. 
This is neither a desirable nor a sustainable outcome. Long before we got there, the United States would lose the confidence of investors, igniting a spike in interest rates, a collapse of the dollar, a global financial crisis and a devastating recession. 
But with substantial excess capacity in the economy, there is no evidence that the federal deficit is driving up interest rates and crowding out private spending. What's slowing the pace of recovery is not too much government borrowing but too little private spending. Nor are there symptoms of an imminent sovereign debt crisis facing the American government over the next few years. Rather, worries about slower growth in the United States, along with a flight to safe assets and a reduction in risk appetite by global investors, have kept the federal government's borrowing rates near historic lows. 
And that's despite threats by irresponsible members of Congress to initiate a default on the government's debt by failing to pass an increase in the debt limit. 
In the labor market, the situation is dire. Almost 14 million people -- 9.1 percent of the labor force -- were unemployed in May. About 45 percent of those had been unemployed for 27 weeks or more, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Another 8.5 million part-time workers wanted but could not find full-time jobs; an additional 2.2 million dropped out of the labor force because they could not find work. 
During the last five years, the percentage of the population working has fallen to 58 percent from 63 percent, reducing the number of Americans with jobs by 10 million. 
The economic and human costs associated with the jobs crisis are staggering. An extended period of unemployment means lower earnings: workers who return after long-term unemployment earn 20 percent less over the next 15 to 20 years than a worker who was continuously employed. 
The longer workers are unemployed the more likely they are to lose their skills and drop out of the labor force. And the longer workers are unemployed, the more likely they are to lose their homes, their health and their marriages -- and the more likely their children will grow up in poverty -- with adverse implications for their health, education, and future incomes. 
The primary cause of the jobs crisis is a lack of demand, the same problem that bedeviled the economy in the 1930s. Consumers, long the primary engine of economic growth in the United States, are in the midst of an unprecedented retrenchment. 
High debt levels, falling housing prices, a lack of employment opportunities and wage stagnation are forcing people to curb their spending, pay down their debt and increase their saving. In the 13 quarters since the beginning of 2008, the annual growth of real consumption, which still accounts for about 70 percent of gross domestic product in the United States, averaged just 0.5 percent. Not since the end of World War II has consumption been this weak for this long. 
Speaker John A. Boehner and the Republican majority in the House say the way to address the immediate jobs crisis and the long-term fiscal challenge is to make deep cuts in federal spending. Indeed, a recent study by the Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee concluded that "quick, decisive government spending reductions" can promote growth and jobs in the short term. 
But the overwhelming evidence suggests the opposite: when the economy has excess capacity, high unemployment and weak private demand, cuts in government spending reduce growth and eliminate jobs. 
On this point, there is widespread agreement among experts. Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, recently warned that sudden fiscal contraction might put the still fragile recovery at risk. The June report from the C.B.O. contains a similar warning. Even William Gross of Pimco, a vocal critic of the long-term fiscal position of the government, cautions that a move toward fiscal balance, if implemented too quickly, could "stultify economic growth." 
As Simon Johnson noted in his recent Economix post, fiscal contractions are expansionary only under special conditions. None of these apply to the United States today. 
So what should policy makers do? They should pair fiscal measures aimed at job creation now with a credible plan to reduce the deficit gradually -- and pass both at once, as a package. Approving a deficit-reduction plan but deferring its starting date until the economy is near full employment will cut the odds that immediate contraction will tip the faltering economy back into recession. 
Indeed, passage of such a package could bolster growth by easing investor concerns about future deficits, reducing long-term interest rates and strengthening consumer and business confidence.
There is strong bipartisan support among budget negotiators in Washington for an enforceable debt target as an essential component of a credible deficit-reduction plan. Breaching the target would lead to automatic changes in spending and revenues. I believe we should pair an unemployment-rate target with a debt target. The unemployment-rate target would postpone significant spending cuts or revenue increases to achieve the debt target until the economy is closer to full employment. 
Most economists believe that full employment for the American economy implies a structural unemployment rate of 5 to 6 percent. The unemployment-rate target should be set within that range. Current forecasts by the C.B.O., the Office of Management and Budget, the Hamilton Project and most private-sector economists predict that this target will not be achieved until 2015 or later. That's when serious actions to narrow the long-run fiscal gap would begin to take effect. 
Can we afford to defer such actions until the economy is much closer to full employment? Yes. 
As the economy recovers and temporary fiscal stimulus measures are phased out, the deficit as a share of gross domestic product is expected to decline markedly during the next few years. Extending some measures enacted at the end of 2010 -- the payroll tax cut for employees, the capital investment expensing deduction and long-term unemployment benefits -- would add little to the long-run fiscal gap and would boost the flagging recovery. 
Given the magnitude of the jobs crisis, we should go further by cutting payroll taxes for employers on new hires, including all hires by new firms. David Leonhardt, a columnist at The New York Times; Michael Greenstone, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and Robert H. Frank, an economics professor at Cornell, have recently proposed this approach. Mr. Frank estimated that eliminating the employer payroll tax on new hires could result in more than five million new jobs. A cut in payroll taxes should be maintained until the unemployment rate target is reached. 
As long as there is considerable slack in the economy and inflation remains low, the government should be able to finance targeted fiscal measures for job creation at reasonable interest rates, provided such measures are paired with a credible and enforceable deficit reduction plan. And provided that gamesmanship and blackmailing tactics over the debt limit do not undermine the creditworthiness of the United States on global markets. 
Painful choices about how to close the long-run fiscal gap -- primarily the result of imprudent fiscal decisions before the Great Recession, escalating health-care costs and an aging population -- must be shaped now and enacted promptly over many years once the economy has recovered. 
But in the next few years, the priorities of fiscal policy should be growth and jobs.

        
The Virtues of Investing in Transportation
        
Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses
        
The Unemployed Online
        
How Many Jobs Do We Need? 
        
Summertime Blues for Teenagers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); BUDGETS (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%); STATISTICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%) budget deficit; consumer confidence; consumer spending; Daily Economist; employment; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; long-term unemployed; Payroll Tax; politics; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; Economic Conditions and Trends; Federal Budget (US); Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Congressional Budget Office

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%) Congressional Budget Office

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



51 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: The Danger in Counting on Markets to Drive a Debt-Limit Deal

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Those who think a little bit of Wall Street panic may be just the medicine to break the federal debt ceiling impasse may not have reckoned on the turbulent unpredictability of recent investor behavior in the credit markets.

 BODY:
Many astute political observers worry that an elegant resolution to the negotiations over the federal debt limit may not be in the making - and that there is a tangible possibility that the United States will default on its debts.
Personally, I'm wary of reading these tea leaves. When the Republican leader in the House, Eric Cantor of Virginia, walked away from the talks last week, was that a sign that the negotiations were on the brink of collapse? Or rather, did it show that Mr. Cantor and his Democratic counterparts had made substantial progress and that it was time to call John Boehner and Barack Obama in from the bullpen? This is not a situation where either word or deed should simply be taken at face value: everyone involved has an incentive to conceal his or her true intentions. It's a bit like trying to predict the outcome of a poker hand without knowing the players' hole cards.
I am worried for another reason. Many observers, including some who are optimistic about the ultimate outcome, think that distress in the bond, credit and equities markets will be necessary in order to motivate a solution. For instance, here's Peter Orszag, Mr. Obama's former budget director, as quoted in a CNN article:
"We won't get to that kind of conceptual agreement until we get some kind of turbulence in the bond market," said Orszag, who now works as a Citigroup vice chairman of global banking. He spoke at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Orszag predicted that, perhaps as early as July, financial markets will start to seriously worry about the United States' ability to pay its debts. He predicted the cost of making loans would jump between a quarter to half percentage point before congressional leaders get serious and reach a deal.
"That's the kind of force that I think will be required in order to bring the parties together," Orszag said.
The idea, basically, is that a little bit of market panic would be a good thing, inducing Congress and the president to reach a deal, which would in turn prevent a lot of market panic.
There's some apparent precedent for this notion in the events of September 2008. When the Congress initially failed to pass a financial bailout program, the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 777 points in a single day, prompting Congress to relent and approve a slightly modified version of the original bill just 48 hours later.
But I worry that the logic of this scenario - in essence, counting on an orderly panic - may be intrinsically unsound. Once panic over the possibility of a default sets in, it may be hard to contain.
Let's start by considering how the markets appear to be reacting right now to the potential for a default. The best indicator may be prices for credit default swaps, financial instruments which make it possible to bet that a particular creditor (like a country or a business) will default on its debts. The more likely a default appears, the more expensive it is to make such a bet. It costs about 2,200 basis points to buy credit default swaps on Greece right now, for example - as compared to just 28 basis points for Sweden.
Before the financial crisis took hold in 2008, the basis-point prices of credit default swaps on United States treasury notes - essentially, bets on a federal debt default - were generally in the single digits. These days they are an order of magnitude higher, and have risen by 35 percent over the past year. By contrast, over the same period, the prices for credit default swaps on Japanese debt and German debt have stayed roughly unchanged, and those for Britain have fallen by about 20 percent. So there may well be market reaction specifically to developments in the United States.
The modest increase in credit default spreads is not exactly what worries me, however. Instead, note how jagged the chart is: there have been some extreme swings in prices from one day to another. By contrast, the stock market over the same period looks much smoother:
Here is a starker illustration. Instead of closing prices, the next two charts show percentage changes from day to day. First, the Dow industrials:
Over the past year the Dow has never closed more than 3 percent higher or lower than the day before. True, it has been a relatively stable year for the stock market - but even that 777-point swoon back in 2008 was just a 7-percent change.
Here is the same kind of data for the default swaps. Spreads have fluctuated by 3 percent or more on 58 trading days over the past year, and on 5 occasions it moved 10 percent or more - the Dow has done that only 10 times in its 115-year history:
Default-swap prices have not only been extremely volatile, but their volatility has also taken an especially turbulent form. On many days, prices for credit default swaps hardly change at all, but when they do change, it is often by a large amount. In statistical terms, rather than being distributed across a gentle, bell-curved shape, the fluctuations are instead leptokurtic or "heavy-tailed", like the red line in the chart below.
This might sound familiar to readers of Nassim Nicholas Taleb's book "The Black Swan." Data sets that behave this way, Mr. Taleb argues, tend to be intrinsically unpredictable. Stock market prices are subject to this phenomenon to some extent, but the prices for credit default swaps are especially strongly so.
The stock market is different from the market for credit default swaps in a number of important ways - the trading volume is much greater, for example - so the comparison is not strictly apples to apples. Nevertheless, the turbulence in the credit-swap data suggests that investors are having an extremely difficult time sizing up the risk of a default. 
Seemingly minor news can cause major swings in prices. For instance, prices on the default swaps for Treasuries rose almost 25 percent over four days in mid-May in reaction to some relatively benign and perfunctory comments by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. They rose more than 50 percent during a period of roughly a week in February 2010 in an apparent panic over debt problems in the euro zone, before falling back to their previous levels almost as quickly.
On the other hand, investors have not appeared to react to recent political developments. Prices have not increased since Mr. Cantor broke off negotiations, for example, and they rose only slightly following the Republican takeover of the House of Representatives in the elections last November.
In short, it is foolish to expect investors to react to the possibility of a debt default in a proportionate and orderly fashion, panicking "just enough" to provoke Congress into action. Financial markets have historically had a difficult time reacting to political events. Meanwhile, it would be nearly impossible to build a statistical model for predicting the likelihood of a default by the United States, or its economic consequences, because no such default has ever happened before. 
The mathematics of building such a model become even more complicated because of the paradoxical ways in which market reaction may affect behavior in Congress and vice versa. Suppose, for example, that investors were certain that Congress would pass an increase in the debt limit if the Dow were to drop by 2,000 points. In that case, they would have little reason to worry - and little impetus for them to bid down the Dow by 2,000 points in the first place. 
Given these difficulties, investors may instead be most likely to react to how other investors are reacting, meaning that negative sentiment could feed back upon itself, causing extremely rapid changes in prices. Any apparent panic in the market is likely to be genuine, with unpredictable near-term and long-term economic consequences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BOND MARKETS (71%); POKER (68%); STOCK INDEXES (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (79%); ERIC CANTOR (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); PETE PETERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



52 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Early Deadline

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
In Today's Times
The White House says that a deal on the debt ceiling is needed no later than July 22 to avoid sending the federal government hurtling into default, Democratic officials tell Jennifer Steinhauer and Mark Landler. Otherwise, lawmakers will not have time to draft all the necessary legislation and approve it in both chambers. After a break at Camp David this weekend, President Obama will head to the Senate on Wednesday with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to talk to Democrats about the negotiations. The Senate, unlike the House, will not get a weeklong break for the Fourth of July holiday because the majority leader, Harry Reid, decided Thursday to cancel the recess. The House returns July 6.Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithneris not going anywhere just yet, Mr. Landler reports. After Bloomberg News reported that administration officials were saying that Mr. Geithner might be heading for the exit once the debt ceiling is raised, he responded that he would stay in the job for the "foreseeable future."Preliminary financial reports trickling from the Republican presidential field show the candidates struggling to find donors in a race that will ultimately pit one of them against Mr. Obama, the most successful political fund-raiser in history, Nicholas Confessore writes. He adds that early fund-raising efforts by the Republican candidates have been hobbled by the fragile economy, the absence of a front-runner and the desire of many of the party's biggest donors to wait and see how the race develops.Mitt Romney, who leads the Republican presidential field in polling and fund-raising, took his campaign to the Democratic territory of Pennsylvania on Thursday. Trip Gabriel writes that Mr. Romney attacked Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, using the backdrop of a shuttered factory in Pennsylvania that Mr. Obama had visited to promote his economic stimulus plan as a backdrop for his attack on the president's handling of the economy.John Schwartz reports that thousands of prisoners convicted of crimes related to crack cocaine are eligible for shorter sentences under a revised policy approved Thursday by the United States Sentencing Commission. The panel voted unanimously to apply retroactively a 2010 law that brings penalties for crack cocaine offenses more closely in line with those for powder cocaine.
Around the WebNoting the angst provoked by Mr. Obama's insistence on eliminate tax breaks for corporate-jet ownership, The Wall Street Journal illustrates the difficulty of reaching a debt deal.The Washington Post highlights a report from the Congressional Budget Office warning of rapidly rising Pentagon costs.The Journal also takes account of the Obama administration's outreach to Islamist parties empowered by revolutions in the Arab world.
Happening Around WashingtonAmong the batches of economic date scheduled for release today are construction spending figures for May from the Commerce Department (10 a.m.) and a manufacturing index for June from the Institute for Supply Management (also at 10).NASA's administrator, Charles F. Bolden Jr., will speak at the National Press Club at 12:30 p.m. His appearance comes one week before the final scheduled space shuttle launching.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); COCAINE (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (66%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (61%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%) The Caucus

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



53 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Being an Ex-Governor a Double-Edged Sword for 2012

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Spending four or eight years at the helm of a state government can create a record that proves problematic, especially at a time when states are struggling.

 BODY:
It's no coincidence that most of the leading Republican candidates for president are former governors, whose executive experience is used as the primary argument for their fitness to move into the Oval Office.
Conventional Washington wisdom holds that governors are better positioned to win the presidency than legislators, both because of that executive experience and the lack of a lengthy Congressional voting record. But spending four or eight years at the helm of a state government can also create a record that proves problematic, especially at a time - like now - when the states they led are struggling economically.
On Thursday night, Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, watched as a budget stalemate forced the state government into a partial shutdown on the eve of the July 4 weekend. Minnesota parks are expected to be closed and state workers are being furloughed.
In a late-evening news conference in St. Paul, Mr. Pawlenty sought to turn the situation to his advantage. He lashed out at Democrats in St. Paul and Washington for what he called a "thirst for more spending and more taxes."
But the potential of a shutdown in the state that Mr. Pawlenty led until six months ago provides fresh ammunition to his Democratic critics and, potentially, to his Republican rivals. Democrats blame Mr. Pawlenty for budget maneuvers that they say helped cause a $5 billion budget shortfall. Mr. Pawlenty says runaway spending by the Legislature and the Democratic governor is to blame.
"I think the upcoming deficit is preposterous in the sense that it's based on a massive increase in spending," Mr. Pawlenty told reporters. "If the state government would simply live within the revenues it has available, it wouldn't have any deficit at all."
Mr. Pawlenty's aides argued Thursday night that the story of his record as governor is a positive one. And it's possible that the state budget crisis could provide Mr. Pawlenty an opportunity to appeal to conservative voters who appreciate his antitax position.
But the headlines Thursday evening are a reminder that issues from a governor's tenure have a way of bubbling back up to the surface when they are running for president.
Mr. Pawlenty is by no means the first to discover that.
Mike Dukakis, the former governor of Massachusetts and the Democratic nominee in 1988, repeatedly found himself defending his state's record after claiming to have led what he called the "Massachusetts miracle" as the state's chief executive. Former President George W. Bush had to answer for the state of Texas during his 2000 presidential campaign.
And in the current campaign, Mitt Romney has discovered that the health care plan that he bragged about passing while he was governor of Massachusetts has become a liability for his candidacy to be the Republican nominee.
In Mr. Romney's case, he has acknowledged the potential for political peril from his health care plan.
"A lot of pundits around the nation are saying that I should just stand up and say this whole thing was a mistake, that it was just a boneheaded idea," Mr. Romney said in a speech in May. But he is sticking by his plan, while criticizing similar efforts by President Obama on the national level. 
Other potential 2012 contenders have their own issues to deal with.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, brags about the jobs that were created while he was governor and his avoidance of tax increases. But his support for cap-and-trade policies while governor, and his backing of civil unions, are parts of his record that may make it tougher to win a Republican primary.
Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, is not yet a candidate. But her stormy tenure as her state's chief executive remains a controversial and difficult political challenge.
Ms. Palin maintains that her time in office reflects her strengths; a fawning documentary released last week in Iowa makes that case explicitly. But the specter of hundreds of reporters arriving in Alaska several weeks ago to scour through her e-mails shows how far a gubernatorial record can follow a potential presidential candidate.
To be sure, presidential candidates who have served in Congress have their own issues.
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota enjoys the benefits of touting her conservative voting record to Tea Party voters in Iowa and elsewhere. But she also has to answer critics who say her legislative record has few major accomplishments.
For Mr. Pawlenty and the other governors, however, their success as a governor remains the single largest political asset. And anything that undermines that success is a potential problem as their campaign moves forward.
On Thursday night, Mr. Pawlenty - who served two terms as Minnesota's chief executive - was asked whether he felt any responsibility for leaving the state in the current situation. 
No, he said. "If the state government would simply live within the revenues it has available, it wouldn't have any deficit at all," he told reporters.
And then a reporter asked what he would say to the state workers who are set to be laid off. Mr. Pawlenty, who has been focused more on the nation's economy of late, shifted back into governor mode.
"There's going to be a variety of near-term impacts," he said. "But the longer-term goal is what's important here, which is that the Minnesota government needs to live within its means."

        
2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
2012 Republicans Embrace Nuclear Power, So Far
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) 2008; 2012; barack obama; budgets; Democrats; governor; mitt romney; Republicans; Senate; tim pawlenty; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Palin, Sarah; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Governors (US); Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); SARAH PALIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Palin, Sarah; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



54 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 54 words

HEADLINE: Video: Early Moves in Pennsylvania; Early Campaign Finance Results

BYLINE: BEN WERSCHKUL


HIGHLIGHT: Trip Gabriel reports on the importance of the Pennsylvania, and a look at early results from the money primary.

 BODY:
Trip Gabriel reports on the importance of Pennsylvania with two high profile political visits this week. Also, a look at early results from the money primary.

        
Video: Common Ground 
        
TimesCast: Donors Unveiled
        
The Early Word: Clinton Touts New Cash, Electability
        
The Early Word: Last Chance for Pennsylvania
        
The Early Word: The Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAUCUSES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%) Campaign Cash; Pennsylvania; video; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Campaign Finance; Caucus Video; Elections

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



55 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Canceled Recess Upends Senators' Plans

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: Trips to Central America, Turkey and Afghanistan are canceled or abbreviated, and one senator's honeymoon plans are on hold.

 BODY:
Senators will return to business next week instead of going on their planned recess, because Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said they have to. But that doesn't mean that everyone is happy about it.
Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the lead Republican on the Budget Committee, complained in a news release Friday that in spite of Mr. Reid's insistence that they need to stay in town to work on negotiations to raise the nation's debt ceiling, Mr. Reid and the Senate Democrat leadership "have not scheduled any budget markup or any action on the debt ceiling or related matters."
(There are numerous meetings scheduled next week between the White House and Senate Democrats, but nothing specific is set for the floor of the Senate.)
"They know that they cannot produce a plan that will both prevent the most predictable economic crisis in American history and sustain their big-government vision," said Mr. Sessions, who called for the scrapping of the Fourth of July recess weeks ago. "It appears no resolution will be brought forward next week, only more closed-door meetings and selectively disseminated information." 
Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Senate Democrats, responded tartly in an e-mail, "The biggest obstacle to a deal right now is that Senate Republicans insist on protecting tax loopholes for oil companies, corporate jet owners and yachts."
Though Aug. 2 is the day when, officials say, the government will reach its debt ceiling and no longer be able to borrow what it needs to keep operating and repay existing debt, lawmakers would need at least a week to draft a bill and get it through two houses, so their deadline for reaching an agreement is July 22, which is quickly approaching.
Recess plans are typically set far in advance by senators and their staffs, often including trips overseas, and the last-minute disruption did have an impact on traveling members. For example, while Senators John McCain of Arizona, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut left Thursday for Turkey and Afghanistan, the trip will be abbreviated so that they can make it back to the Senate on Tuesday. (The three will still spend the Fourth of July with the troops, as they've done for several years.)
Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana was going to Central America to work with disadvantaged children, but that plan had to be scrapped.
Senator Max Baucus of Montana is getting married this weekend to Melodee Hanes and planned to spend time tooling around his home state with his new bride. Instead, he will scoot back to the Capitol, but in August the two plan to hop in an R.V., drive around Montana and go hiking in Glacier Park. Assuming the negotiations are done by then.

        
Lawmakers Beat the Bell Out the Door
        
House Closes for 2 Weeks; Senate In and Out 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); MARRIAGE (63%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (62%); HISTORY (53%) recess; Sessions, Jefferson B III; United States Politics and Government; Senate; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); JEFF SESSIONS (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); MARY LANDRIEU (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Sessions, Jefferson B III

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



56 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: June's Political Best Sellers

BYLINE: ORVILLE BUDDO


HIGHLIGHT: What's topping the summer reading lists of the government set.

 BODY:
"Demonic" by Ann Coulter debuts at No. 4. Ms. Coulter is convinced that the Democrats operate just like a mob, and a mob's sole purpose is to stir up and agitate. Ms. Coulter defines a mob as childlike, irrational and often violent in order to promote its agenda. 
"The Secret Knowledge, by David Mamet debuts at No. 10. Renowned American author and playwright, Mr. Mamet has switched sides and has confirmed himself a conservative. Mr. Mamet has said he is now a big fan of right-wing talk radio, which he called a refreshing contrast to NPR.
"Reckless Endangerment" by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner debuts at No. 7. Ms. Morgenson is a Pulitzer Prize-winning business reporter at The New York Times and Mr. Rosner is an expert on housing finance. The financial meltdown began in the mid-90s, they contend: it was during the Clinton era when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac joined forces with the private sector; when Washington and Wall Street partnered up. 
"The Post-American World: Release 2.0" by Fareed Zakaria debuts at No. 14. In this revision of his 2008 book, Mr. Zakaria focuses on the emerging economies of Brazil, China and India and what America's role now is amidst these financial growths in other countries.
The full list for June:
1. In The Garden Of Beasts, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha.
2. Seal Team Six, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin's, $26.99.) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions, including the battle of Mogadishu in 1993.
3. Unbroken, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner's story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II.
4. Demonic, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $28.99.) The columnist compares the Democratic Party to a mob.
5. Lost In Shangri-La, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) After a jungle plane crash in 1945, three survivors were caught between headhunters and enemy Japanese.
6. The Heart And The Fist, by Eric Greitens. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) A Navy Seal describes his military deployments and his larger vision of public service.
7. Reckless Endangerment, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner. (Times Books/Holt, $30.) This account of the Wall Street implosion highlights individuals who played crucial roles of responsibility.
8. Area 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs.
9. On China, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Press, $36.) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need a design of partnership.
10. The Secret Knowledge, by David Mamet. (Sentinel, $27.95.) The playwright denounces liberalism and offers his views on religion and American culture.
11. The Miracle Of Freedom, by Chris Stewart and Ted Stewart. (Deseret Book Company, $28.99.) The authors discuss "seven tipping points that saved the world," including the Battle of Thermopylae, Constantine's conversion to Christianity, and the Battle of Britain.
12. Decision Points, by George W. Bush. (Crown, $35.) The former president's memoir discusses his Christianity; his drinking; his family relationships; and 9/11, Iraq and Katrina.
13. To End All Wars, by Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) This account of World War I examines losses in the ranks and the cause of dissenters.
14. The Post-American World: Release 2.0, by Fareed Zakaria. (Norton, $26.95.) Author of "The Future Of Freedom" optimistic forecast for America as other nations prosper in the 21st century.
15. 1861, by Adam Goodheart. (Knopf, $28.95.) A historian examines the months between Abraham Lincoln's election to the presidency in 1860 and July 4, 1861, when President Lincoln delivered his first message to Congress.
Rankings are based on June figures at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

        
March Political Best Sellers
        
December's Best-Selling Political Books
        
August Poli-Books Best Seller List
        
June's Political Best Sellers
        
May's Political Best Sellers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); BESTSELLERS (76%); LITERATURE (76%); POLITICS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ESPIONAGE (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); MEDIA BIAS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); RUNNING (63%); MILITARY TRAINING (62%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%) political best sellers; Books and Literature; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



57 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Another Black Eye for Cyrus Vance

BYLINE: MICHAEL POWELL


HIGHLIGHT: The new district attorney's string of losses and/or embarrassments in high-profile cases has become perversely impressive.

 BODY:
Some day soon - today, perhaps? - an observant bookie might ask: Who faces longer election odds? Dominique Strauss-Kahn or the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr.? 
 The new district attorney's string of losses and/or embarrassments in high-profile cases has become perversely impressive. The East Village police officers accused of rape and the Deutsche Bank contractors both walked free in recent weeks. And a grand jury refused to allow Mr. Vance to pursue his most serious charges against two men accused of conspiring to blow up a Manhattan synagogue. 
 Now the the former managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Strauss-Kahn, seems about to spin free of career-ending felony charges.
 Mr. Vance's office filed a letter on Friday with State Supreme Court that reads like the legal equivalent of a skin-scrape, peeling back near every aspect of their witness's credibility. She lied about the torture and death of her husband at the hands of government troops in her native Guinea and she lied about her claims to having been gang-raped. 
 The sorry list grows longer. She lied about the details of the day of her sexual encounter with Mr. Strauss-Kahn. And law enforcement investigators told The New York Times that she has a bank account plump with the proceeds from a jailed drug dealer, who discussed with her the economic advantages of pursuing charges against Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
 The mystery attendant to Friday's proceeding is why Mr. Vance's office declined to drop the case entirely.
 None of this should suggest that Mr. Strauss-Kahn emerges with anything but the shards of his old reputation. The housekeeper's accusation against him was like tugging on an old cupboard door - when it flew open, old allegations of his contemptible behavior toward women came spilling out. 
 A few, unfortunately hailing mostly from my sex, claim to see vindication in this messy disaster. So we have this French fellow quoted in our article on the reaction in France: "This is a slap in the face of the feminists," said Marc Marciano, 53, a trader in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a Paris suburb.
 Mr. Marciano might find so much comfort in silence. As for Mr. Strauss-Kahn and his future, when the debate is between those who accuse you of rape and those who defend you as a mere disgusting cad, your image problems have not emerged from critical care.
 All of which brings us back to Mr. Vance and the spectacular botch that his office has made of this case. There is no argument, moral or legal, to be made for special treatment. But if a local prosecutor decides that justice demands bringing to ground the International Monetary Fund's managing director and a potential French presidential front-runner, he might want to nail down each detail before slapping on the cuffs.
 The former I.M.F. chief is a man who travels back and forth across the Atlantic as easily as most of us cross Broadway. Why not build a case and arrest him the next time he steps into Nobu? Those who argue against prosecutorial patience point to the case of Roman Polanski, who engaged in scurrilously bad, not to mention felonious, behavior in the United States, and then picked up his film career within the shadow of the Alps. 
 But Mr. Strauss-Kahn's life ambitions argue against the notion that he could have barricaded himself inside his Paris duplex, lived on takeout foie gras for a few months, and resumed his candidacy for president. He faced two choices: Restore his honor by facing the charges, or retire into disgrace.
 This of course is second-guessing (my value added!). What's clear now is that the highest profile case of Mr. Vance's still-young career appears to have collapsed in upon itself. His office's letter to the judges ends with the acknowledgement that the witness lied about her history, background, present circumstances and personal relationship. 
 It concludes: "Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions."
 Where do we begin? 
"Gotham Extra" is an occasional Web-only supplement to Michael Powell's "Gotham" column, which appears in the Tuesday newspaper.

        
Cuomo Supports DNA Collection Legislation 
        
25 Charged With Having Images of Child Sexual Abuse
        
Hey, Anyone Know a 'Dominique'? There's a Package for Her
        
Bill Aims to Protect Hotel Workers From Sexual Abuse
        
Strauss-Kahn Pleads Not Guilty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); FELONIES (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WOMEN (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%) Cyrus R. Vance Jr.; Dominique Strauss-Kahn; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Vance, Cyrus R Jr; Sex Crimes; Manhattan (NYC); Gotham Extra

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Vance, Cyrus R Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (91%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



58 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: In Ohio, a New Governor Is Off to a Smooth Start

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
In Washington, Congress may still be fighting over the national budget, but in Ohio, where Republicans control the House, the Senate and the governor's office, the budget passage has been about as smooth as a knife through butter.
That is partly because Republicans kept tight party unity, voting together on bills that Democrats say are some of the most conservative the state has ever seen. But the driving force was Ohio's governor, John R. Kasich (pronounced KAY-sik), who has pressed his legislative agenda with remarkable success since his election in November. 
On Thursday night, he signed his $56 billion budget into law, with few major changes from the version he had originally proposed and neatly ahead of a July 1 deadline. On Friday, he held a news conference in Columbus to celebrate.
''We faced our problems and took them on,'' Mr. Kasich said. ''We have now stabilized the state. It is a new way, and it is a new day and, we are delivering.''
It was a fireworks finale to a legislative season steered by Mr. Kasich, who is among the closely watched class of new Republican governors in key electoral battle-ground states. His stewardship of the state budget could have outsize political implications, influencing the mood of voters and their economic circumstances, which will help set the backdrop for next year's presidential election.
In his five months in office, Mr. Kasich, a former congressman and Lehman Brothers executive, has established himself as a get-things-done governor who has expansive powers and is not afraid to use them.
''Inning after inning, the guy scored every round,'' said Gene Beaupre, a political science professor at Xavier University in Cincinnati. ''I don't see where he lost anything in the budget game.''
Mr. Kasich said at the news conference that the budget restored fiscal responsibility to Ohio by closing an $8 billion budget gap. But his opponents argue that it accomplished that through deep cuts in spending on schools and local governments, which will be hard pressed to make up the difference. It also repeals the estate tax in 2013, which applies to the most affluent Ohioans and is another important revenue source for local governments.
''There are clear winners and losers in this budget,'' said Wendy Patton, senior associate at Policy Matters Ohio, a liberal economic research group in Columbus. ''Wealthy families and businesses benefit. School kids and communities don't.''
Michael Leachman, assistant director of the state fiscal project at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said Mr. Kasich's approach was not unlike that of other closely watched Republican governors, like Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Rick Scott of Florida: cutting spending and taxes as a way to increase jobs. The effort, he argued, would harm the economy by reducing consumer spending.
Mr. Kasich argued that the tax cuts were critical in an era when Ohio's economy had been ''dying.'' Avoiding tax increases ''is not ideological,'' he said. ''Ohio is not competitive. We wanted to become business-friendly.''
Bill Seitz, a Republican state senator from Cincinnati who voted for the budget because he said it advanced many long-overdue changes to, for example, prisons and the administrations of cities and towns, expressed concern that the cuts from local governments amounted to shifting the burden onto towns and cities.
''It's easy to spend other people's money, and that is essentially what this budget does,'' he said. ''Local governments will likely be in a position to ask voters for additional resources. It's pay me now or pay me later.''
Senate President Thomas E. Niehaus said in a telephone interview that local governments would soon have fresh revenues from casinos that had been approved by voters, and Mr. Kasich said they would also have savings from public-sector worker salaries and benefits under Senate Bill 5, a law passed this spring that weakens those workers' right to bargain collectively.
But Democrats say that that tool might not be an option, as a campaign is under way to repeal the law, and that, together with the other conservative legislation that has passed, including controversial changes to voting rules and a provision banning public hospitals from performing abortions, the measures might backfire at the polls.
''They are appealing to the most aggressive, energetic, loudest portion of the Republican Party,'' said Tim Burke, chairman of the Hamilton County Democratic Party. ''I think there is a very real possibility that they will be made to pay for all of that, come next year.''
But Ohio is a swing state, and the real question, Mr. Beaupre said, is how independent voters will react, and that is still too early to predict.
A repeal of Senate Bill 5 ''does not necessarily translate into voter behavior in 2012,'' he said. ''It's all still squishy at this point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, left, after signing the state budget bill into law, at the Statehouse on Thursday in Columbus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERRY GILLIAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ESTATE TAX (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (90%); RICK SCOTT (58%); SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



59 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS THE DEBT CEILING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Warns of Deadline

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
The Aug. 2 debt ceiling deadline is holding firm. The Treasury Department said Friday morning that its latest estimates still show that's the date the government will exhaust its ability to pay all of its bills, unless Congress agrees to raise the total amount that the United States can borrow. 
''Secretary Geithner urges Congress to avoid the catastrophic economic and market consequences of a default crisis by raising the statutory debt limit in a timely manner,'' the department said in a statement issued in the name of Mary Miller, the assistant secretary for financial markets.
Congressional Republicans say they will increase the borrowing limit only if Democrats agree to a plan to reduce the federal deficit. Democrats say any such plan must include revenue increases. The two sides have been locked in a stand-off for several months. The White House now is warning that a deal must be reached by mid-July to leave enough time for the necessary legislation to be written and passed into law.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



60 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: In Car Sales, Good Month For Detroit, Not Japan

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Shortages of cars made by Toyota and Honda and fewer discounts over all made June the worst month so far this year for sales of new vehicles in the United States, but automakers expressed confidence that the industry would rebound later in the year.
Although sales rose 7 percent from a year ago, the seasonally adjusted annualized selling rate fell to 11.5 million, below the level of 11.8 million in May. The selling rate, a closely watched measure of the industry's health, topped 13 million in February, March and April. 
''We continue to believe the economy will recover from the current short-term slowdown into the second half of the year,'' Don Johnson, General Motors' vice president for United States sales operations, said in a conference call. ''Some consumers have decided to sit on their hands and delay purchases, but we view this as temporary.''
Sales fell 21 percent at Toyota and Honda -- it was the worst June for both companies since 1997 -- and 8 percent at Subaru.
Those declines contrasted with gains of 11 percent by G.M., 10 percent by Ford and 30 percent by Chrysler, which outsold Toyota for a second consecutive month. The Detroit carmakers accounted for more than half of sales for the first time since September 2008.
It was the 15th consecutive month that Chrysler posted a year-over-year gain and the company's best June since 2007. Sales by its Jeep sport utility vehicles were up 74 percent last month, and popular new models introduced since its 2009 bankruptcy helped increase sales in the first half of the year by 20 percent.
Sales of the Toyota Prius fell 61 percent, to 4,340, an average of fewer than four per dealer and the lowest total for a month since September 2004, as the automaker struggled to restore availability after the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March. Toyota said it had just 1,400 of the cars left in inventory but that 36,000 were on the way to the United States this summer.
Toyota officials said inventories were improving considerably as many plants returned to normal production levels and that the company would advertise more aggressively in July to ensure customers knew dealers had cars to sell.
''Consumers had the perception that they would simply not be able to find the car they're looking for, and even if they did that they would have to pay an arm and a leg for it,'' Jesse Toprak, vice president of industry trends and insight at TrueCar.com, which tracks vehicle pricing and sales. Though availability is better than many shoppers might realize, he said, ''it's not going to be before the fourth quarter that we see a decent inventory mix for the Japanese automakers.''
For the first half of 2011, Toyota's sales were down 4 percent from those in the period a year earlier, and Honda's sales were up 3 percent. Chrysler's sales were 21 percent higher from January through June, G.M.'s sales were up 17 percent and Ford's rose 9 percent.
As in May, cars made by G.M. and Ford outsold their long-dominant rivals at Toyota and Honda. The Chevrolet Cruze, a compact car introduced by G.M. last year, was the nation's top-selling car in June. G.M. and Ford executives said buying patterns shifted toward larger vehicles later in the month as gas prices dropped in much of the country.
Toyota responded to its inventory shortages by pulling many discounts, but it introduced new deals in June after traffic at dealerships slowed sharply.
''Things actually were going along pretty well in March and April, and the shortage hit us badly,'' said Earl Stewart, owner of Earl Stewart Toyota in North Palm Beach, Fla.
His dealership sold 88 Prius cars in March but only 12 in June before running out. Mr. Stewart said his new-car department was profitable early in the year but lost money in May and June, as sales went from an average of 265 a month to about 140 in May and then 180 last month.
''They put the incentives back on, but you can't un-ring a bell,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''The message got out to a lot of people. It had a psychological negative impact on the Toyota buyer.''
To keep shoppers from sitting on the sidelines -- or worse, choosing a competitor's readily available vehicle -- Toyota and Honda have begun offering incentives to people who order a car even if it does not arrive at the dealership for several months. Normally, incentives are available only on vehicles that are in stock or delivered in the same month.
''Fortunately for them, Honda and Toyota customers are loyal to their brands and they've likely deferred their new-car purchases until inventory is available,'' said Jessica Caldwell, director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that provides car-buying information to consumers.
Toyota increased incentives by 31 percent from May, though the level remained about $500 a vehicle below the industry average of $2,165, Edmunds.com reported.
Tight supplies of Japanese vehicles have helped push up prices across the industry by giving other carmakers less motivation to offer big discounts. Prices for small cars have risen the most, given the increased demand for fuel efficiency.
The industry's average transaction price in June rose 2.9 percent from a year ago, to $30,009, topping $30,000 for the first time, according to TrueCar.com.
Analysts said they expected sales to remain somewhat sluggish through much of the summer but pick up later in the year.
''Incentive levels $500 below the first-quarter average and depleted vehicle inventory have added to the pressure as the month progressed,'' said Jeff Schuster, the executive director of global forecasting for the research firm J. D. Power & Associates. ''However, the fundamentals remain in place for a marked return to the recovery pace set in the first four months of the year.''
Some automakers also said sales were hurt on Thursday -- the last day of a month often accounts for considerable volume as dealers try to bolster their results -- after California enacted a cut in its sales and vehicle taxes, effective Friday. The cuts save the buyer of a $25,000 car more than $350.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Volkswagen Jetta
Honda Civic (B4) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TRENDS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); TSUNAMIS (50%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); TRUECAR INC (50%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



61 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: A New Type Of Student Loan, But Still a Risk

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
There are two possible reactions to the news in recent weeks that U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo are now offering fixed-rate student loans in addition to the variable rate kind that had been standard.
The first is to cheer. Borrowers now have a choice similar to people buying homes. Those who want certainty can pay extra for it, while those who wish to roll the dice and hope interest rates don't rise too much can do that, too.
The second response is to rail against the fact that these loans are even necessary. After all, the federal government will lend most undergraduates up to $31,000. That this is not nearly enough for many families to cover the bills at all sorts of colleges is some kind of national disgrace, right?
Both reactions, it turns out, are valid. So let's consider them one at a time. 
But first, a review (and a semiofficial renaming of the loan at issue here). Not so long ago, federal student loans were variable and you could get them from a bank. Now, they are fixed at as little as 3.4 percent for this coming school year, and you borrow directly from the government.
The federal loans are a good deal, but they are often not enough make up the difference between what a family has saved or can spend out of current income and what the student gets in grants and scholarship money.
This is where private student loans come in -- and proceed to send some undergraduates' total debts spiraling into the six figures by the time they manage to earn a bachelor's degree. While the government recently introduced lower federal loan payments for graduates with limited income and loan forgiveness for people in public service jobs, the banks don't have similar programs for their private loan borrowers.
And about this name -- private student loans. It's factually inaccurate. To get the lowest rates, a teenager with limited credit history will need a co-applicant, which usually ends up being a parent.
The vast majority of these loans end up being a joint effort, so let's call them what they are: private family loans. Yes, banks will often absolve the co-signer of responsibility after a couple of years if every payment has arrived on time, but forgetful young adults don't always do that. (This, by the way, creates black marks on everyone's credit history, not just the student's.)
So here come U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo with their new fixed-rate family loans. Both last for 15 years. The crucial difference is that U.S. Bank offers only one rate: an annual percentage rate of 7.8 percent. An upfront fee can raise the actual annual percentage rate on the loan to as high as 8.46 percent.
Wells Fargo's fixed-rate loans have no origination fee and are as low as 7.29 percent (or as much as another percentage point lower if you're a current Wells Fargo banking or education loan customer). But if you don't have excellent credit, the fixed rate could be high as 14.21 percent for community colleges or trade schools.
The current variable rate ranges from an annual percentage rate of 3.39 to 10.22 percent at U.S. Bank and 3.4 to 11.74 percent at Wells Fargo. Given the size of the gap and no signs that rate increases are imminent, why introduce this option now?
''We think that students and parents are looking for some level of certainty in the long run,'' said Lucille Conley, senior vice president of consumer lending for U.S. Bank. ''They've seen things happen in the housing market that may cause them more concern than they might have had four or five years ago.''
The bankers aren't suggesting that borrowers actually try to do the math. In fact, it's nearly impossible. The banks haven't created calculators that allow you to input a series of interest rate spikes and declines at various points along a 15-year timeline and then compare it with a fixed rate. And since the professionals have no idea themselves what interest rates may do, it makes little sense for them to encourage their customers to guess.
Instead, this is a product for people who sleep better at night knowing what their payment is. Turns out there are lots of people like this. Kirk Bare, Wells Fargo's business head of education financial services, said the bank was expecting a fairly low adoption of the fixed-rate loan and has been surprised by how many families have chosen it so far.
This is a fine thing, as far as it goes. Fine, that is, until you stop to think about what the mere existence of the private family loan actually means.
Let's start by repeating the first principle of borrowing for college, one that even lenders now repeat ad nauseam: do not, under any circumstances, take out one of these loans until you have used up all of your federal loan eligibility. Most students can borrow up to $5,500 in their first year as an undergraduate, $6,500 in their second year and $7,500 each year after that until they max out at a total of $31,000.
What if this is not enough? ''If you're bumping up against the federal loan limit, you have to look at it as a sign that you are in over your head in terms of your debt,'' said Zac Bissonnette, the author of a book called ''Debt-Free U,'' who recently graduated from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
It will come as no surprise that lenders aren't exactly fans of the ''any private loan is a loan too large'' school of thought. ''If you haven't saved enough to pay for the entire college bill, should you even be going to the first federal loan?'' asked Joseph DePaulo, executive vice president and chief marketing officer for Sallie Mae, the biggest family education lender.
''You could start the answer anywhere, and I wouldn't arbitrarily start it at federal loans versus private. I think it goes back to the question of your own comfort level. How much value do you put in the nature of the school you are attending relative to what your goals and objectives are while considering your means?''
Mark Kantrowitz, who runs the encyclopedic college financing Web site finaid.org, which ought to be the first stop for any family seeking to learn more about its options, suggests a middle ground: Do not borrow any more during college than you think your annual salary will be when you graduate. Mr. Bissonnette, however, worries that families may be too optimistic. Plus, teenagers may change their minds a few times during college about their career goals.
All of this would be so much easier if the federal government would lend most people way more than $31,000. If that ever happened, the banks would be out of the business of underwriting undergraduates.
My former colleague at The New York Times, Jonathan D. Glater, now a member of the law school faculty at the University of California, Irvine, set tongues wagging in this world recently with an academic paper that suggested a much higher federal loan limit, among other things. But it's hard to imagine any big changes in the current political environment.
Many families throw up their hands and borrow whatever the friendliest person in their college's financial aid office tells them. Keep in mind, however, that these counselors are in the enrollment business, not financial planning.
''Colleges don't have the guts to go to the extreme of saying that you should go to a less expensive school,'' Mr. Kantrowitz said. ''If they were to start being realistic and doing that, they would have to stop growing and start shrinking. Their pecuniary interests are pitted against the best interests of students.''
Meanwhile, he added, colleges fall back to a script that goes something like this: ''They say, 'If students are willing to borrow money, who are we to disagree? Maybe they have elasticity that we're not aware of.' ''
Elasticity is a pretty good word, actually. If you're a parent, you need to think hard about just how much you are willing to stretch -- and if the debt will break your children if they graduate into an economy anything like this one and you're not able to help.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prospective students touring the campus of Washington University in St. Louis. One expert suggests that students not borrow any more than their annual salary will be when they graduate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM DALY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); FAMILY (74%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



62 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ASKED AND ANSWERED GLENN SINGER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Defying the Trend, a Small Town Loosens Its Belt

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
While American cities large and small are grappling with budget deficits of historic proportions -- laying off teachers and police officers and closing libraries -- the town of Golden Beach, Fla., is doing fine, thank you. The town, nestled along the Atlantic Ocean in Miami-Dade County, has a minuscule unemployment rate, plenty of money and little crime. Among its current or former homeowners are Ricky Martin, Bill Gates and Paul Newman. The town also has a history of exclusion -- at one point in the 1980s it closed most of its roads to the outside world as part of an effort to deter crime. These days, the town has entry gates staffed by security officers. Mayor Glenn Singer, elected this year to his fourth term, discusses.
Q. Can you talk a little about Golden Beach? 
A. We're on the Dade/Broward County line. Golden Beach is about a mile and a half long and about one mile east to west. There are 370 homes and 1,200 residents. The average age is 39. The average home value is $1.9 million, and some go as high as $20 million. There's no crime, well, there is some petty crime. We have 23 police officers, a maritime patrol, beach patrols. Cameras are located throughout the town.
Q. A lot of other cities are suffering financially, but Golden Beach has been on something of a spending spree recently. Has the city had problems as well, and if so, how did you overcome them?
A. Ninety percent of our revenue is from real estate taxes. Two and a half years ago, we had an assessed value of about $1 billion. That has come down to about $760 million. We cut back expenses without eliminating services. I cut OT. I ran it like a business. We really tightened our belt because we didn't want to raise taxes on our residents. I knew the town needed rejuvenation. We are completing a $35 million capital improvement project where we've put in new underground utilities (electric, cable, telephone; a storm water drainage system that will eliminate flooding); new sidewalks and curbs and gutters; uniform decorative mailboxes and a new security system with 50 new cameras (including infrared cameras). We're also redoing our three bridges, and decorative street lights are going in now. It wasn't tax revenue that built this project. Tax revenue went down 25 percent. A $14.5 million bond passed in 2007. Then we got a $9 million FEMA grant [for flood prevention, among other things]. We had a lot of fines that were never collected, something around $460,000 for things like improper fencing around a pool or for painting houses without permits. Using all these funds, we were able to pull this project off. There's a tremendous amount of new activity. There have been more permit requests in the past 90 days than we've ever had. There are some big homes going up. A home going up now is going to be over 35,000 square feet.
Q. Commercial enterprises are banned, and there are no schools. What is there to do in Golden Beach?
A. We have a total of nine parks. Some of those are quiet parks. You can go there and read or use WiFi. We have North Park, which is an active park, where you can play football and soccer. South Park is more of a quiet park, but it is a place we can have concerts. There is a tot's lot with a pavilion where people can have parties. There is also Singer Park [recently named after the mayor]. It's a small, little park. It has a waterfall. We entirely redid it for $250,000. It had been called Rock Park. Then there's tennis courts, basketball courts. There is, of course, a beach pavilion which is open only to Golden Beach residents. It has a lifeguard and two beach attendants. The attendants will make sure you're a town resident, get you a chair. It is a private beach. It's a good beach, 150 feet wide and probably 300 feet or 400 feet wide.
Q. As mayor you do not receive a salary. How are you able to afford to live in Golden Beach?
A. I worked at an accounting firm in Dallas and then started [with two partners] a payroll company in Tampa called National Business Solutions. It was sold for $180 million in 2006.
Q. Golden Beach has a gate at its main entrances. If someone from outside Golden Beach wanted to come to play tennis or basketball, would they be allowed in?
A. Yes and no. We can't keep people from coming in, but if you don't have a Golden Beach decal there's no place to park. You need to go to Town Hall to get a permit. Town Hall is open five days a week. (Unauthorized vehicles are towed.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BEACHES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); CRIME PREVENTION (76%); TAX INCREASES (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); FLOOD CONTROL (65%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



63 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: An Accordion Epicenter Shrinks and Thrives

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO

 BODY:
CASTELFIDARDO, Italy -- Jet-lagged but determined, Salomon Salcedo thought nothing of trekking to this small hilltop town in the Marches region on a muggy June afternoon to satisfy a lifelong desire: buy a made-in-Castelfidardo accordion.
''They're the best,'' said Mr. Salcedo, 50, a policy officer in Chile for the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization, who began playing the accordion when he was a child.
''You won't find them in stores; they have to be made to order,'' said Mr. Salcedo, who was combining the visit with a work trip to Rome. ''And this is the place to come.''
For some people, the idea of traveling almost 7,500 miles for one purchase may seem extreme. 
For accordion makers in Castelfidardo, it is a common occurrence. Ask around and prepare to be regaled with stories of delegations of Frenchmen, Argentines and other aficionados traveling to this town just south of the Adriatic port of Ancona to buy a bit of Italian industrial excellence.
Just after World War II, when entire accordion orchestras were fixtures in the festivities of Italian immigrants to the United States, Castelfidardo churned out its prize product by the tens of thousands.
Now, years after the electric guitar became the instrument of choice in popular music -- people here still point to Elvis Presley and the Beatles as their economic nemeses -- and the production of basic models largely moved to Asia, Castelfidardo has continued to shift its focus to quality from quantity. That has allowed the town to sustain a key industry, though in a much diminished form.
''Our accordions are like bespoke apparel,'' said Francesca Pigini, a top manager for the company her grandfather started in 1946. ''For us, it's a pleasure and an enrichment to work and collaborate with artists and people who make music a big part of their lives.''
Pigini is the largest accordion maker in Castelfidardo, splitting production between instruments tailored to traditional music like polkas, waltzes or easy listening, and a classical repertoire, which grew considerably after Tchaikovsky introduced an accordion part in an 1883 suite -- a milestone, accordionists say. The company makes about 60 models, costing from 2,000 to 30,000 euros, or $3,000 to $43,000.
Pigini is one of the few companies in Castelfidardo that still makes almost every component in-house, employing about 40 skilled workers and producing about 1,500 accordions a year.
Mr. Salcedo, incidentally, planned to buy a Pigini, he said later in an e-mail.
Pigini accordions count for a sizable chunk of Castelfidardo's production, which has been inexorably eroded by changing musical tastes and -- more recently -- by the global economic crisis.
The story of how a 5,000-year-old Chinese free reed instrument called the sheng metamorphosed into the modern-day accordion passes through Vienna, where the first patent was presented in 1829, and winds through several European cities. But as far as Castelfidardo is concerned, the accordion is a homegrown success story pinned to the ingenuity of Paolo Soprani, who opened his shop in 1863.
Several stories told here romanticize the origins of Mr. Soprani's inspiration -- including improbable references to accordion-playing soldiers who fought at the Battle of Castelfidardo in 1860, one of the definitive skirmishes against papal troops that led to the unification of Italy.
But Beniamino Bugiolacchi, director of the International Accordion Museum in Castelfidardo, dismisses such legends, saying that Mr. Soprani's major accomplishment was taking an artisanal activity and applying modern industrial strategies to increase the business.
Production in Castelfidardo peaked in 1953, when nearly 200,000 accordions were made in dozens of factories that employed about 10,000 workers. Accordion makers in other Italian towns also did brisk business. Today, only about 27 companies remain, mostly small businesses employing about 300 people, a number that has been stable for the last five years, Mr. Bugiolacchi said. Rising production costs shifted the competitive edge to manufacturers first in Eastern Europe and more recently in South Korea and China.
But the precision and skills necessary to make accordions -- which require the assembly of about 6,000 pieces, if not more -- were easily transferred to other industries. Over the last 30 years, Castelfidardo has excelled in other sectors, like mechanics and woodworking.
''The accordion now accounts for around 15 percent of Castelfidardo's'' output, said Paolo Picchio, president of Consorzio Music Marche Accordions, a consortium of manufacturers and promoters. ''But the other 85 percent still has accordions to thank.''
Apart from the manufacturers, there are also specialized companies that supply parts like the sound-making reeds or the folding bellows.
''Castelfidardo is about high quality, and we're in the high end of this market niche,'' said Francesco Mengascini, whose company, which he runs with his father, makes about 800 accordions a year under the Beltuna brand. It could make more, he said, but the Mengascinis do not want to sacrifice quality, so they regularly turn down work. ''We're not great commercial experts, but we prefer to focus on the brand and satisfy clients.''
The company exports about 95 percent of its production, he said, which translates into dozens of different models. Unlike many other instruments, accordions are not made to any standard, and those used in various countries typically have their own distinctive sounds, Mr. Mengascini said.
There are, for example, piano accordions (with a keyboard) and button accordions, and different systems exist for both the left and the right hands. There are Russian, Tyrolean, Belgian, German, Italian and dozens of other variations on how buttonboards, keys and bass systems are mounted, and manufacturers in general grumble that a single system would be a relief.
While China has become the world's top producer of mainstream accordions, many in Castelfidardo view Asian manufacturing, where much of the production is for internal consumption, as a boon. Someday, they reason, all those young Chinese accordionists will seek out top-quality instruments.
''We're not pessimistic about the future because some young Chinese players will become professionals, and once they're looking for more important instruments where will they come? To Castelfidardo,'' said Mr. Picchio, the consortium president who also is the artistic director of the annual international accordion festival here, which draws hundreds of performers and fans.
One reason to be negative, other manufacturers counter, is that skilled labor is becoming more difficult to find as younger generations increasingly reject the years of training and technique required to make accordions.
''They prefer to work in other sectors, computers being the main draw,'' said Vincenzo Canali, the museum's president and an accordion expert.
Mr. Canali said that financial incentives to students might be the only way to draw people back to the trade. ''In any case, work will always be available,'' he said. ''If nothing else, it's a sure job.''
Ingenuity has helped to keep Castelfidardo's main industry afloat. Marco Tiranti, an accordion tuner and restorer, decided to start his own business, Euphonia, which produces about 20 accordions a year. He formed the company two years ago after patenting an innovation that creates ''a warmer, sweeter sound.'' Mr. Tiranti acknowledged that the market for accordions was saturated, ''and if you don't have something new, it isn't worth trying.''
Still, the global crisis is taking its toll and Mr. Tiranti said that the community's pulling together might be the best way to weather a difficult economy. Manufacturers, he said, could benefit from developing a coordinated approach to research and labor costs that could help invigorate the entire area.
''Small may be beautiful,'' he said, ''but in a global market synergy may be the only way to survive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Accordions have a long history in Castelfidardo, Italy. (B1)
Pigini, which makes 1,500 accordions a year, is one of a few companies in Castelfidardo that builds most of its components on-site.
 Top, assembly at a small factory that makes only 20 accordions a year. Above, musicians in Castelfidardo, which in 1953 had dozens of accordion factories employing about 10,000 workers. Today, only about 27 companies and 300 employees remain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFANO SCHIRATO FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (87%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); POP & ROCK (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (92%); CHILE (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



64 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Is Natural Gas a Promising Option?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
With the use of anonymous sources, unsubstantiated claims and biased experts in its ''Drilling Down'' series, The New York Times has proved itself to be firmly against the opportunities that clean, domestic, abundant natural gas provides.
''Insiders Sound an Alarm Amid a Natural Gas Rush'' (front page, June 26) contradicts the broad scientific consensus of America's vast natural gas wealth. The robust and attainable supply projections are supported by the federal government, numerous independent analysts, and academic and industry data. This information was provided to your newspaper. Technological advancements, even since 2009, offer vast and reliable natural gas supplies, leading to stable markets. 
This American resource benefits our energy security, economy and environment. If your newspaper has an agenda -- and it appears it does -- it should be disclosed to your readers.
REGINA HOPPER President and Chief Executive America's Natural Gas Alliance Washington, June 28, 2011
To the Editor:
The Times is to be commended for its investigative articles about the claims made by the oil and gas companies about the profitability of natural gas obtained from hydrofracking (injecting water, sand and chemicals to release gas from shale formations). These articles reveal the false basis on which the advocates for natural gas are attracting private investment and government subsidies.
In addition to continuing to call on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York not to allow hydrofracking anywhere in the state, we must also oppose the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions bill (H.R. 1835 and S. 1408, also known as the NAT GAS Act), which would provide tax incentives for converting vehicles to run on natural gas instead of oil.
Hydrofracking requires huge quantities of water, which will soon be more precious than oil, and threatens our food and water with various forms of contamination. Taxpayers must demand government subsidies for and immediate conversion to renewable forms of energy like solar, wind and geothermal. Subsidizing natural gas supports fossil fuel development while undermining renewable energy.
LISA DiCAPRIO New York, July 1, 2011
The writer is a professor of social sciences at New York University.
To the Editor:
Your articles about shale gas make clear what geologists and people looking closely at the industry have been saying for several years: drilling sites require heavy investment, the returns on each site are limited because of rapid depletion and the environmental degradation costs are very high.
Now what must be openly discussed are the effects this will have. There is a strong connection between the paradigm of energy requirements in an industrial society, and population growth effects on resource depletion and ecological degradation. It's past time to begin understanding this.
RICHARD PELTO Kenmore, Wash., June 27, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''Behind Veneer, Doubt on Future of Natural Gas'' (''Drilling Down'' series, front page, June 27):
I hope that the United States Energy Information Administration's ''lively debate'' about shale gas development not only continues but also expands to include a closer examination of how hydraulic fracturing may affect water resources. Officials at the highest levels of government must ensure that energy policies do not harm the nation's drinking water and aquatic resources.
Energy and water are highly interdependent resources, and as a 2007 Sandia Laboratories paper recommends, they ''need to be managed together in a more integrated way to provide reliable energy and water supplies and sustain future national growth and economic development while maintaining the health of ecosystems and the environment.''
Clearly we have rushed into shale gas development, just as we impulsively dived into corn ethanol production without understanding the consequences. If we don't heed Sandia's recommendation, we will continue to make bad energy policy at a time when we have little room for error.
KYLE RABIN Director Network for New Energy Choices New York, June 27, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LULU WOLF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (63%); TAX LAW (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



65 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Picked Up in June, Topping Expectations

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The rate of growth in the nation's manufacturing picked up for the first time in four months in June, surprising investors and fueling optimism that the recent economic slowdown will be temporary. 
The picture that emerged from other data released on Friday, however, was less encouraging. Although lower gasoline prices helped temper the gloomy mood among consumers last month, their expectations on the economy remained bleak, according to a survey.
While manufacturing has been a sweet spot in the economic recovery, consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the nation's economic activity, has failed to return to robust levels.
The manufacturing report eased fears that the economic recovery could remain sluggish, though some economists cautioned it was too soon to tell if economic growth had turned a corner.
Globally the picture was less cheerful, with purchasing managers' indexes in Asia and Europe sliding to multimonth lows last month.
A fall in construction spending in May, to a more than 10-year low, also tempered the economic outlook. The Census Bureau said construction spending during May was estimated at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $753.5 billion, 0.6 percent below the revised April estimate of $757.9 billion.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity rose to 55.3 in June from 53.5 in May, when it had slumped to its lowest level since September 2009. The reading topped expectations for 51.8, according to a Reuters poll of economists.
''It indicates perhaps the biggest weakness will be in May,'' said Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital in New York. ''It sets the groundwork for acceleration in growth for the second half of the year.''
One of the biggest factors behind the increase in the rate of growth was a jump in inventory building by manufacturers, which some economists said could be a sign of confidence that the economic recovery would gather speed later this year.
The employment gauge also rose, but new orders increased only slightly, and exports fell.
The prices paid index fell to its lowest since August 2010, further easing concerns about inflation.
Separate data on consumers was less encouraging as sentiment worsened in June. Falling gasoline prices stabilized the view of consumers of their current economic conditions, but longer-term expectations remained subdued, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey showed.
While small spending gains can be expected in the second half of the year, the trend is more likely to vary between lackluster and zero than lackluster and robust over the next several years, the survey said.
The final reading for the consumer sentiment index was 71.5 in June, down from 74.3 in May, and slightly below the preliminary June figure of 71.8.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Devin Gosney, a quality inspector, examines the interior of a wind turbine blade at a Siemens factory in Fort Madison, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN LOVRETTA/THE HAWK EYE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); CENSUS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



66 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: For Home Prices, It's Back to at Least 2004

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
IS your home worth as much as it was seven years ago? If so, you've done better than most Americans.
What is most impressive about the decline in home prices is the ubiquity of the fall and how many years of gains were wiped out. Real estate agents, using some dubious statistics, used to claim that national home prices had never fallen for an entire year, even if there sometimes were regional markets that suffered for a year or two. 
The most-followed index of home prices, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city composite, managed a small rise in April, the first gain after seven months of declines, but it remained at a level first reached in May 2003.
None of the 20 regions -- each ''city'' is actually a collection of metropolitan areas that include suburbs -- have prices now that are as high as they were in 2005, as can be seen in the accompanying graphic. Only four of them, New York, Washington, Seattle and Portland, Ore., have prices as high as they were in 2004.
The return of prices to levels seen many years ago has occurred in areas where prices soared during the boom as well as in regions where there seemed to be no bubble in home prices. From the end of 2001 through the end of 2006, prices in the San Francisco region rose 69 percent, far more than the modest 13 percent increase in the Denver area. But prices in both regions are back to where they were in 2001.
The effects of the decline are all the greater because banks made it easy to withdraw equity from homes when prices were rising, meaning that many more homeowners had mortgages that reflected peak values than would have been the case in earlier housing cycles.
The fact that so many homes are worth less than owners paid for them makes it much harder for those people to move, even if job prospects are better elsewhere, and has contributed to a slowdown in housing sales.
The indexes are based on comparisons of the price received for the same home at different times. During the first four months of this year, S.& P. counted 238,408 sales of homes for which it had a previous sale in its database. That was down 14 percent from the same period in 2010, when a temporary tax credit for some home buyers caused a modest recovery in prices that has since evaporated.
Only two of the 20 regions -- San Francisco and Washington -- now have prices that are up more than 10 percent from the bottom level reached during the downturn. The two other California regions -- Los Angeles and San Diego -- are the only ones up at least 5 percent from the lows.
It is possible that the indexes now are overstating housing weakness because sales of foreclosed homes, which may be in poor condition and which the sellers may be desperate to unload, make up a larger part of the available data. But there is no indication that the number of distressed sales is likely to decline anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: National home prices, as measured by the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index 20-city composite, are now at a level first reached nearly eight years ago, in May 2003. The index posted a small gain in April after falling to a new low in March. (Source: S.& P./Case-Shiller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



67 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: In Capital Subways, A Long Life of Climb

BYLINE: By SEAN COLLINS WALSH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Late for work, Cassandra Jackson hurried through the Washington subway the other week only to confront a broken escalator that was supposed to carry her to the street. Exactly 351 steps later she made it to the top.
''I'm going to have a heart attack,'' she said at the top of the stairs, hands on her knees and sweat on her forehead. 
The Metrorail system in Washington has more escalators than any other transit system in North America, and lately those moving staircases have been having health problems of their own. More than 100 escalators are out on a typical day, repairs are taking longer and rider patience is running out.
On busy holiday weekends, like the Fourth of July, or when there are huge gatherings on the National Mall, Metrorail's weaknesses are compounded by packed platforms and trains, which stresses escalators and can cause breakdowns.
Transit officials also blame a host of problems: aging equipment, a lack of parts and too many stations designed with long escalators that are exposed to ice and slush in the winter and sweltering heat and humidity in the summer. Even newer escalators are prone to breakdowns, Metrorail officials said, sometimes more frequently than the older models.
On top of that is a history of neglect. Last year, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority began a $63 million effort to catch up on escalator maintenance. Now riders are putting up with even more out-of-service escalators than usual. Passengers are standing in line for elevators primarily designed for riders with disabilities or in wheelchairs.
''We would have caught that train just now if this was working,'' said Pamela Bobb, pointing to an idle mezzanine-to-platform escalator at a downtown station. Mrs. Bobb was visiting Washington in June from San Antonio. ''It makes me wonder what else is broken,'' she said.
Five more years of out-of-service escalators are unavoidable during the modernization program, said Richard Sarles, the general manager who joined the transit authority in April 2010 after running New Jersey Transit. ''It's like trying to drive your car and having it maintained when you're driving,'' Mr. Sarles said. ''You can't do it.'' Many of the escalators, he said, are simply ''beyond their useful life.''
Last October, when a record weekend crowd swarmed the Metrorail during the comedian Jon Stewart's ''Rally to Restore Sanity'' on the mall, several people were injured when an escalator at the L'Enfant Plaza Station suddenly sped up before jerking to a halt, throwing dozens of people into a pileup at the bottom of the stairs. Metrorail said worn brake pads and an oil leak -- worsened by a surge in riders -- caused the accident. Metrorail has since reviewed all escalators for brake deficiencies.
Built in the 1970s, Metrorail is the nation's second-busiest subway system, but its trains and facilities are far younger than New York's, the busiest system in the country, or Boston's subway which opened in 1897.
Building the system required burrowing below more layers of modern infrastructure than older systems, causing many platforms in Washington to be built at exceptional depths -- Forest Glen Station, the deepest, is 21 stories below ground in suburban Maryland. Escalators and elevators to get passengers from the street to the platform were essential for the system.
Of the 588 escalators in Metrorail, many are remarkably long: A suburban stop in Wheaton, Md. has a monstrous 230-foot escalator, the longest in the Western Hemisphere, according to Metrorail.
Hiro Iseki, a University of Maryland professor who studies mass transit, said maintenance projects on the Metrorail system have historically been patchwork jobs.
''It may have fixed the problem for a very short time period, but the escalators just continued to have problems,'' he said.
Dr. Iseki has surveyed how transit amenities, like escalator and elevator performance, affect riders' decision to use the system. Problems with one of these ''paratransit'' factors, he said, increase the ''generalized cost of travel'' and can decrease ridership.
Frank DeBernardo, chairman of the Riders' Advisory Council, a Metrorail group, agreed. ''The escalators are the first thing people see and the last thing people see when they enter and exit the system.''
The makers of some of the oldest escalators in the system have gone out of business, making it more difficult and costly to find replacement parts, Metrorail officials said.
Unlike indoor mall or airport escalators, the units in the Metrorail face extreme temperatures that can cause breakdowns. Rain can cause electrical failures and pose potential hazards for mechanics.
Facing an expected $66 million shortfall this year, Metrorail does not have the resources to begin financing projects from its revenues. But last year, with help from federal economic stimulus money and increased support from local municipalities, Metrorail began a $5 billion, six-year improvement plan that includes the $63 million to refurbish 153 escalators.
In December, Metrorail appointed Rodrigo Bitar, an engineer, to the newly created position, ''general superintendent for elevator and escalator programs.'' This summer, Mr. Bitar will release a timeline for the escalator revamping program and oversee its execution, Mr. Sarles said.
Now, however, riders will see even more shutdowns over the next few years.
''There will be outages even on our best days,'' Mr. Sarles said. ''I want to reduce those unscheduled outages.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Metro riders crowd onto the only working up escalator at the Capitol South Station outside the Capitol.
 The outdoor escalators face extreme temperatures that cause parts to expand with the summer heat and contract when temperatures drop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); CITIES (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



68 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Yourself to Others: It's Not All Bad

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''TO compare is to despair,'' the saying goes, and I've generally found it to be true. If I try hard enough (and sometimes even if I don't) I can usually find someone who performs better or has more. And I can feel bad about it.
I objectively know that my own life is pretty good, but this upward comparison, as economists and psychologists call it, can somehow dim my own accomplishments. ''Comparison is rife with danger, but it's understandable why we do it,'' said Heidi Grant Halvorson, a social psychologist. ''We're human beings and we naturally seek information.''
One way to get information, Ms. Halvorson said, is to turn to experts. Another way is to look at those around us. 
And often what we see in our neighborhood or community is more important, in our minds, than anything else. Economic studies have shown, for example, that once they make a certain amount of money to cover basics, most people care more about relative, rather than absolute, income.
That is, most of us feel better if we make, say, $100,000 if the majority of our neighbors make $75,000 than if we earn $150,000 when most of our friends bring in $200,000.
One such study, ''Neighbors as Negatives: Relative Earnings and Well-Being,'' published in 2005 in The Quarterly Journal of Economics, found that ''higher earnings of neighbors were associated with lower levels of self-reported happiness.''
The paper cites the oft-quoted saying by the economist and philosopher John Stuart Mill: ''Men do not desire to be rich, but to be richer than other men.''
Erzo F. P. Luttmer, the author of the study and an associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College, said in a telephone interview that neighbors ''influence what you think is a normal lifestyle, and you struggle to keep up.''
We're often told to avoid comparing, but this is both difficult and not necessarily wise advice in all situations.
Ms. Halvorson, who is also author of the book ''Succeed: How We Can Reach Our Goals'' (Hudson Street Press, 2010), said we needed to think about why we were seeking the information. ''Upward comparison can be punishing and make you feel terrible,'' she said. ''But you can also look upward to learn.''
If we feel bad, for example, about how well we just played in a game of tennis, we can check out those who play worse to make ourselves feel better, and avoid watching the semi-pros on the other court.
Or, if we believe that we can improve and learn by looking at others -- and not just feel inferior about playing worse -- then we can watch the better players.
There are also pros and cons to comparing ourselves with people worse off than ourselves. It's not good if we're just trying to gain a sense of superiority or avoiding challenging ourselves to do better.
But such downward comparisons can remind us of our own fortune. They can also help us when we think about the things we regret but we cannot change.
As part of a study co-written by Isabelle Bauer, a clinical psychologist in Toronto, 104 people of various ages were asked to complete a survey about their greatest misgivings -- choosing the wrong career path, or failing to make amends to someone who passed away or marrying the wrong person.
The study found that those who felt that other people had regrets that were ''more'' or ''much more'' severe reported an increase in positive emotions when reassessed four months later compared with those who said that other people's regrets were ''less'' or ''much less'' severe.
''If you can't change what you did, then downward social comparison helps us gain perspective,'' Ms. Bauer said. ''And those people are able to move on and re-engage in other goals. If you compare upward about things you can't change, then you seem to just feel stuck.''
But those who compared themselves downward and had the opportunity to do something about their regrets didn't feel any more positive over time, she said.
Comparisons can also serve as a reality check, particularly when speaking about money.
My colleague Ron Lieber, for example, wrote about NetworthIQ, a site that allows people to anonymously post their own net worth. Would we be happier and healthier, he asked readers, if we knew the net worth of our friends, colleagues and neighbors?
The overwhelming response was no. As one commenter put it: ''I am sickened by the idea of calculating one's 'net worth' in terms of money. It's good to have savings and it's good to have a nest in which one can nestle when one exceeds productive years. However, to express your worth in terms of the 'how much?' question is one more step toward dehumanization. I'd rather figure out my net worth in terms of how much I am worth to the world in which I live.''
Not everyone feels that way, of course, and plenty of people have posted their profiles on NetworthIQ.com.
ING Retirement, a United States-based division of the Dutch financial services group, a few years ago introduced INGCompareME.com, which allows you to anonymously type in your profile -- your age, income, gender and marital status.
Then you answer some personal finance questions, like the amount of money you've put aside for retirement, your mortgage payments, what you think you'll need to save to retire comfortably and so on. You are then instantly compared with your peers.
I answered some of the questions and seemed pretty average. I guess I was pleased our retirement savings were slightly higher than those of the other 1,071 people who answered the question with a similar profile, but I also wasn't sure if I should be.
Might it just mean that all of us are saving too little? Was I getting a false sense of security?
Not at all, said Denis-Martin Monty, vice president of emerging product development at ING Retirement. Rather, it is a useful tool to get us to think about things we often don't want to -- like how much (or little) we've put away for retirement.
The site was initially tested among 28,000 employees of ING's larger clients. When asked at the end of the survey, 64 percent of those who measured themselves chose to take some sort of positive action, like enroll in a retirement plan or increase their savings rate.
Mr. Monty also pointed out that studies show that most of us think we're above average, what he called the Lake Wobegon effect.
''We tend to overestimate where we stand in comparison to other people,'' he said. So people aren't necessarily looking at how much more they're actually saving than other people, he said, but how much more they thought they were saving.
The site recently hit the million-user mark, Mr. Monty said.
David Laibson, a professor of economics at Harvard University, who has looked at the impact of providing peer information on retirement savings decisions (it can be helpful, but not always) agreed that such comparisons can serve a purpose
''Comparisons to large groups of peers are often useful,'' he said. ''It's never the final word on what I should do, but it does give me food for thought.''
I doubt most of us are ever going to stop comparing ourselves with others. The most important point to keep in mind, however, is as Ms. Halvorson said: ''There's a lot of imperfect comparison going on. We never see the whole picture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Young ballerinas at the Lincoln Center, comparing height. Seeing how you measure up to others in material goods and achievements can be disheartening, but it can also be a good way to challenge yourself and learn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); WRITERS (86%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); BALLET (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TENNIS (50%); SPORTS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



69 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Why Two Cases Aren't Worth Pursuing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
This is shaping up as a bad month for fallen Texas sports icons.
Next week, Roger Clemens will go on trial in Washington, accused of lying to Congress about using performance-enhancing drugs. As the beefy right-hander settles in at the defendant's table, his fellow Texan Lance Armstrong will no doubt be sitting somewhere uncomfortably watching the world's greatest cyclists pedal through the countryside of Brittany while wondering if he, too, might soon face a criminal trial and possibly be stripped of his Tour de France trophies.
Armstrong owns a record seven of those trophies; Clemens has a record seven Cy Young Awards. The parallels don't end there. Both men were raised by strong-willed single mothers. And now, both of their fates are inextricably linked to that of another man, Jeff Novitzky, a special agent for the Food and Drug Administration.
It was Novitzky who turned Clemens's former personal trainer and central accuser, Brian McNamee, into a government witness. And it's Novitzky who is leading the effort to prove that Armstrong was taking banned substances during his improbable run of first-place finishes at the Tour de France. 
On its face, the story couldn't be more straightforward: Heroic government agent goes gunning for a couple of Texas-size cheats. So why am I having such a hard time rooting for the guy?
After all, no one seemed more deserving of a comeuppance than Roger Clemens, baseball's schoolyard bully in cowboy boots. Even the dyspeptic Barry Bonds, the disgraced, disfigured godson of baseball royalty, was sympathetic by comparison, a figure more worthy of pity than scorn.
Three and a half years ago, when Clemens's name appeared, 82 times, in the Mitchell report, it was hard not to savor the irony: The headhunter was now the hunted. Since then, he has done nothing to earn our sympathy.
Unlike his onetime close friend and former teammate Andy Pettitte, who wasted no time acknowledging that he had been injected with human growth hormone, Clemens did what he had always done. He muscled up -- or lawyered up, anyway -- and tried to intimidate his opponents.
His lead lawyer, Rusty Hardin, a former prosecutor who built his reputation sending criminals to death row, sued McNamee for defamation and essentially threatened Novitzky.
Clemens, meanwhile, was violating every rule in the celebrity crisis-management handbook, which calls for humility and composure, not petulance and obstructionism. Who can forget him storming off the stage in a huff when his post-Mitchell-report news conference went off the rails?
Clemens evidently learned nothing from this public-relations debacle. Questioned at a recent celebrity golf tournament about the incriminating testimony reportedly being offered by some of his former teammates, he attacked: ''You're wrong again. All's you have to do is know how to read. You know how to read?''
Despite his best efforts, it's still hard not to see Clemens as a kind of victim, the unlucky scapegoat for a conspiracy of willful blindness across baseball during the game's steroid-fueled renaissance. He may be getting what he deserves, but how about the owners who profited from the crowds who turned out to watch the Rocket defy the aging process on the mound?
Then there's Armstrong, the cancer survivor who won, again and again, the most physically demanding contest in all of sports and as he did so spun himself into a role model and inspiration to millions. But would it really be a surprise to discover that his Nike-sponsored mythology of survival and triumph was really just that -- mythology?
There was real betrayal in the revelation that baseball was contaminated. With cycling, we knew better. The history of the sport is the history of performance-boosting pharmacology, from the cocaine and strychnine cocktails of the 19th century to today's designer hormones. Including Armstrong, six of the last seven riders who finished first at the Tour de France have been linked to doping.
When the first Balco indictments were handed down in February 2004, they were trumpeted as a blow for democracy, the sports equivalent of the toppling of the statue of Saddam in Firdos Square, which had taken place less than a year earlier. ''This is not just a call to action,'' John Ashcroft, the United States attorney general at the time, declared in a nationally televised news conference. ''It is a call to the values that make our nation and its people strong and free.''
But a lot has changed since then. Most notably, we've lived through two endless wars and our nation's worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Now here we are, well into the second year of the Armstrong investigation, and we are still waiting for criminal charges to be brought against top executives at many of the firms that left our economy in tatters.
(As it happens, the United States Attorney's Office in Los Angeles, Novitzky's partner on the Armstrong investigation, reportedly dropped its case against the former head of Countrywide Financial, Angelo R. Mozilo, who was suspected of dumping $140 million in Countrywide stock when he knew the firm was faltering.)
For his part, Novitzky is starting to look more and more like Ken Starr, circa 1998, myopically pursuing a case whose relevance diminishes with each new news cycle.
Armstrong's critics might call him a cheat and a liar, but what law did he break? The government may find a way to charge him with defrauding the United States Postal Service, one of his sponsors, saying he falsely claimed he was clean. This may be a legitimate legal argument, but it won't be easy to prove. More to the point, is it worth trying to prove?
If there's one thing we've learned from the steroids era -- and Novitzky deserves credit for this -- it's that a lot of professional athletes will cheat if they can. They might even lie about it. A handful of prosecutions is not going to change that.
Of course, Armstrong was more than a cyclist. He was a humanitarian, as much Greg Mortenson -- the mountain-climber-cum-Third-World-school-builder whose own heroic narrative has come under question -- as Roger Clemens. In other words, he's just another guy who disappointed us. The sports world, like the real world, is full of them. Do we really need to devote scarce government resources to proving they let us down?
A Georgia congressman, Jack Kingston, has asked the F.D.A. for a financial accounting of the globe-trotting Armstrong investigation. Whatever we have spent to date, it will rise exponentially if a prosecution goes forward. As we saw with the trial of Bonds, the last object of Novitzky's obsession, there is no guarantee that it will result in a conviction that justifies the investment. How much is it going to cost us to add Lance Armstrong to our list of compromised heroes, when, let's face it, in the court of public opinion he's already there?
The real moral of Novitzky's taxpayer-financed crusade may be that it's time to put sports back in their proper place. Our nation's values are not at stake, as Ashcroft once had us believe. But that doesn't mean we can't all still hope to witness some truly inspiring sports moments in our lifetime that aren't ultimately tainted by P.E.D.s.
While we're at it, it may be time to look differently at the tainted performers themselves, not as heroes or villains but as human beings who existed in the context of their dirty games, who did some impressive things on the field and some deplorable things off it. Their falls from grace may have something to teach us not only about their hubris but also our own misplaced desire for transcendent athletes. Those are lessons that go beyond sports, and we can learn them without the help of a modern-day Eliot Ness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeff Novitzky, who has had Roger Clemens and Lance Armstrong in his sights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
The former pitcher Roger Clemens is expected to have his day in court this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN ZAKLIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 The former cycling champion Lance Armstrong has raised millions to fight cancer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); CYCLING (72%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (70%); LIBEL & SLANDER (67%); GOLF (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (58%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



70 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Official From F.D.I.C. Picked To Lead Banking Regulator

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama announced Friday that he would nominate Thomas J. Curry to lead the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees hundreds of national banks, including the giants Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo.
Mr. Curry, a longtime state banking regulator in Massachusetts, has served for the last seven years as one of the five directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Mr. Obama also said he would nominate Mary J. Miller as under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance. She is currently assistant secretary for financial markets.
Mr. Curry's nomination responds to the demands of Senate Democrats that the White House replace the acting head of the comptroller's office, John G. Walsh, whom they regard as obstructing key aspects of the law passed last year to overhaul financial regulation.
But Mr. Curry's confirmation also requires the acquiescence of Senate Republicans, who support many of the decisions made under Mr. Walsh and are likely to grill Mr. Curry about his commitment to maintaining the agency's independence from the administration.
There are now more than a dozen vacancies in senior regulatory and economic positions. Mr. Obama has yet to nominate people to fill many of those jobs, while others remain vacant because Senate Republicans have refused to allow votes on his selections.
The comptroller's office has lacked a permanent leader for almost a year.
Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the banking committee, issued a statement praising Mr. Curry and pledging to advance his nomination ''as quickly as possible.''
''Tom has been a strong, effective director at the F.D.I.C. for the past seven years, and his experience should serve him well as the next comptroller of the currency,'' Mr. Johnson said.
Senator Richard Shelby, the ranking Republican, did not respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Walsh has angered Democrats by arguing in speeches that the extent of new and planned regulations may impair the health of the banking industry, in particular capital requirements that place new limits on the ability of banks to borrow money.
A second issue concerns the balance of state and federal power. The comptroller's office has fought with considerable success to exempt national banks from the requirements of state laws. The financial legislation passed last year required the agency to revisit the issue, and last month it issued a proposal that would leave its longstanding policies essentially unchanged.
In response, the Treasury Department took the unprecedented step of submitting a public comment to the agency criticizing its proposal for ignoring the law's intent.
Mr. Curry, who spent almost a decade running a state banking agency, has made it clear that he believes that states should have more latitude to apply laws that protect consumers.
His current thoughts are likely to be a central subject at his confirmation hearing.
Ms. Miller joined the Treasury Department last year. She now oversees the vast task of borrowing money to finance the government's operations. Earlier on Friday, she announced her latest estimate -- Aug. 2 -- of when the government would reach the limit of its borrowing authority, unable to pay its bills unless Congress authorizes additional borrowing.
She spent 26 years at T. Rowe Price, rising to lead its fixed-income division.
She would succeed the current under secretary for domestic finance, Jeffrey A. Goldstein, who has announced that he will leave the department at the end of the month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM JOHNSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



71 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING LEGAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Washington Mutual Investor Suit Settled

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Washington Mutual's officers, directors, underwriters and auditor have agreed to a $208.5 million settlement to end class-action securities fraud lawsuits, according to court documents. 
The settlement is among the largest stemming from the financial crisis, behind a $624 million settlement by the Countrywide Financial Corporation and $475 million by Merrill Lynch & Company.
The lawsuits, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, accused the defendants of concealing from investors poor loan underwriting and inflated appraisals that overstated earnings and inflated the company's stock price.
As the housing market began to crash, Washington Mutual's loans soured at an alarming rate. In September 2008, regulators seized the company's savings and loan business in the largest bank failure in the nation's history.
The day after the seizure, the bank holding company, Washington Mutual, filed for bankruptcy.
Under the terms of the class-action settlement, announced in court papers dated Thursday, claims against the directors and officers will be settled for about $105 million.
About a dozen underwriters of the company's securities contributed $85 million to the settlement; the company's auditor, Deloitte & Touche, contributed $18.5 million.
The settlement is subject to court approval.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); HISTORY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); APPROVALS (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



72 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: For 2 Republican Leaders, a Bond, Not a Rivalry

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Speaker John A. Boehner was pressed on whether he shared Senator Mitch McConnell's view on wringing savings out of Medicare in the continuing debt limit fight, he hardly waited for the questioner to finish.
''I would agree with Senator McConnell,'' Mr. Boehner, of Ohio, said quickly. 
No surprise there. On issues like the economic stimulus, the health care law, climate change and federal spending levels, there has been scant daylight between the speaker and Mr. McConnell, the Kentuckian who leads Senate Republicans.
Their close alliance, unusual between senior party leaders from the House and the Senate, has substantial implications as they head into end-game negotiations with President Obama on the federal budget. By sticking together, they have been able to pound home a seamless Republican message to voters, reduce the White House's ability to play Senate Republicans off their House counterparts and make consistent demands in the budget talks.
''It is remarkable the degree of unity and message discipline they have had,'' said Tom Daschle, a former Democratic Senate leader from South Dakota. ''It is a huge asset.''
But with much at stake in the budget battle heading into the 2012 elections, and both men facing an array of political, ideological and substantive tradeoffs, the McConnell-Boehner pact is likely to be tested as all sides come down to painful decisions in coming weeks about what they are willing to accept to get a deal.
''We work hard at not surprising each other,'' Mr. McConnell said in an interview.
In the maneuvering on how much to cut spending as part of a package that would also raise the limit on the national debt, both Mr. McConnell and Mr. Boehner have said budget savings must exceed the amount of any debt limit increase; both say they are dead set against any tax increases, and both say Medicare savings should be part of any major agreement.
But there are a few differences in approach that could loom larger as the talks heat up. Mr. McConnell has been more open to the idea of a short-term increase in the debt ceiling, a prospect that unsettles House Republicans who would prefer not to vote multiple times on the debt limit before they all face the electorate in November 2012. (Just 10 Republican Senate seats are up next year.)
Democrats see Mr. Boehner as being more open to new revenues -- he suggested earlier in the year that tax breaks for the oil industry might be expendable -- than Mr. McConnell, particularly if the revenues could be tied into a major deficit reduction package. As the leader of the House, Mr. Boehner also has more riding on the outcome than Mr. McConnell.
Their relationship is a marked contrast to those of some of their predecessors who fought as much with their counterparts across the Rotunda as with the opposition party.
Since Mr. Boehner became leader of House Republicans in 2007, he and Mr. McConnell have pulled in tandem in a way that has made it difficult for Democrats to drive a wedge between House and Senate Republicans. Their inner workings have also been absent of the backbiting and staff infighting that often occurs between the offices of the two leaders.
''It is a friendly and trusting relationship, and we are not looking for ways to make ourselves look better at the expense of the other,'' said Mr. McConnell, who often unobtrusively makes his way over to the speaker's office via a relatively secluded hallway off his own suite. He joked that he followed the trail of cigarette smoke emanating from Mr. Boehner's suite.
Through such regular personal contact and more frequent staff interaction, the speaker and the Senate leader have followed a common communications strategy -- the president's budget, they often asserted earlier this year, ''spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much'' -- and have managed to set the terms of debate by focusing almost solely on spending and the deficit. At House leadership meetings, Mr. Boehner often conveys the views of Mr. McConnell based on their talks.
And they have shown a willingness to step aside for each other as well. Mr. McConnell conducted last December's negotiations with the White House over the extension of the Bush tax cuts; Mr. Boehner took the lead in the spending-cut deal in April that averted a government shutdown.
Both Mr. McConnell and Mr. Boehner are seasoned professionals who do not see themselves as having a lot to prove. Neither seems to harbor ambitions beyond his current role. In contrast, both Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and the Senate leader Bob Dole of Kansas had presidential aspirations back in 1995, goals that led to as much competition as cooperation and undercut Republican efforts as they confronted the Clinton administration.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, who was promoted to majority leader in 2002 without extensive Senate experience, also had their moments. House Republicans had a major falling-out with Mr. Frist over his decision to cut back a tax agreement in order to appease Republican Senate moderates.
Former Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, had their own problems on the Democratic side in recent years, with each office often expressing frustration and befuddlement at what the opposite number at the other end of the Capitol was doing.
Given the tie between the two leaders, there is occasional grumbling in the House that Mr. Boehner is too deferential to the views of Mr. McConnell and the Senate. But for the most part, lawmakers laud the relationship as benefitting both House and Senate Republicans in their confrontations with Democrats and the White House and in dealings with the new conservative factions in their respective chambers.
''This is the best leader-to-leader relationship I have seen in my time in Congress,'' said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina, who is close to both men. ''There is a level of trust that hasn't existed in the past.''
The debt limit negotiations could test that trust, considering the resistance among both House and Senate Republicans to Democratic demands, and the potential economic consequences of a failure to raise the debt ceiling. Both Mr. McConnell and Mr. Boehner have strong ties to the business community and will be cautious about taking actions that could cause more economic upheaval.
Mr. McConnell said he and the speaker already knew that it took effort to hold Republicans together.
''Even if your intentions are the best, there are a lot of things going on that incessantly pull you in different directions,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''So to stay on the same page, you really have to work at it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mitch McConnell, left, and Speaker John A. Boehner have worked to pound home a seamless Republican message. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (90%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



73 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Pay Workers Fairly and Save Money

BYLINE: By JANICE M. NITTOLI. 
Janice M. Nittoli is the associate vice president and a managing director at the Rockefeller Foundation.

 BODY:
DESPITE persistent unemployment and stagnant wages, few believe that our cash-strapped government is likely to simply create better-paying jobs. But there is a way for this country to get more from the millions of jobs we already finance with federal dollars, while reducing the cost of entitlement programs. 
Our government shops for half a trillion dollars in goods and services each year. Nearly one of every four workers is employed by a company that receives federal contracts. But many government contractors routinely violate minimum-wage and maximum-hour laws. A 2010 study of the 50 largest wage penalties by the Government Accountability Office found that half were against companies that received federal contracts in the 2009 fiscal year. This meant not only that workers received less than their due, but also caused a drain on tax dollars, as they turned to Medicaid and food stamps to make ends meet.
President Obama should mandate, in an executive order, that all federal contractors obey the wage and hour laws already on the books.
Although they are already supposed to obey these laws, companies frequently break them; the penalties are minimal, while enforcement is sporadic. If employers had to certify to the government that they complied and risked losing multiyear, multimillion-dollar contracts if they were caught lying, they would be much more likely to follow the rules. Certification would function as a self-enforcement mechanism, and would be more effective than the existing policing system, which relies heavily on understaffed state and federal labor agencies.
We have for too long turned a blind eye when the companies we buy from shortchange their workers.
In 2009 the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-backed research organization, estimated that nearly 20 percent of all federal contract workers earned less than the federal poverty wage of $9.91 an hour. About 400,000 of these workers earn less than $22,000 a year, the federal poverty line for a family of four. A 2006 study of federal apparel contractors estimated that for any factory with 100 employees, that shortfall resulted in a bill to taxpayers of $292,000 for public assistance.
Making this change need not await the conclusion of an endless Washington debate. Mr. Obama could mandate it tomorrow. (President John F. Kennedy did something similar for equal employment opportunity, in 1961.)
The simplicity of this proposal is an advantage over previous plans for so-called high-road contracting. Some were too complicated; others foundered because they were back-door attempts to raise minimum wages or mandate employer-sponsored health insurance, laudable but controversial goals. Conservatives often object to anything that strikes them as excessively generous to labor, but mandating that our laws be observed should be something everyone can agree on.
The number of workers affected by such an executive order would be huge. They include skilled workers who make stealth helicopters and infrared goggles, and also those who sew Army uniforms, clean and guard federal offices, serve food in cafeterias, mow lawns at military bases and do laundry.
Too many of them depend on public assistance to supplement their wages. As taxpayers, we pour money into this leaky bucket and end up paying twice for services we get once. Safety nets are important, but we should also seek to lay out trampolines to lift workers into a growth economy. One act of leadership could make our federal spending part of the solution instead of the problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (88%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



74 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: New York Times Co. Sells Part of Its Stake in the Boston Red Sox

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The New York Times Company said on Friday that it had sold more than half of its minority ownership in the Boston Red Sox and several other sports properties. 
The company sold 390 of the 700 Class B units of the Fenway Sports Group that it owned to three separate buyers in a deal for $117 million. The company, which did not disclose the buyers, expects to record a pretax gain of about $64 million in the third quarter because of the sale.
The sale leaves the company with 310 shares, or about a 7 percent stake, in the Fenway Sports Group. It said it was also exploring selling those shares. Fenway owns the Red Sox; the Liverpool Football Club; about 80 percent of the New England Sports Network, a regional cable sports network that televises the Red Sox and Boston Bruins hockey games; and 50 percent of Roush Fenway Racing, a leading Nascar team.
About a year ago, the company sold 50 shares to Henry F. McCance, a venture capitalist.
In 2002, the company paid $75 million for 17.75 percent ownership in Fenway. But in 2008, faced with a deep recession and pressure to sell noncore assets, it began looking for someone to buy its stake as a way to generate cash.
The Times Company owns other interests throughout New England, including The Boston Globe, The Worcester Telegram & Gazette and Boston.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); NASCAR RACING (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (52%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (92%); FENWAY SPORTS GROUP (92%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON BRUINS (56%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



75 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Spurned by Lady Liberty, Macy's Fireworks Show Stays Put

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
For this year's Fourth of July celebration, Macy's had hoped to turn its massive fireworks show into a birthday party for the Statue of Liberty, which was dedicated in New York harbor 125 years ago. The show's planners wanted to surround the statue with barges loaded with shells, fire some others off from the base of the statue and even have Beyonce perform on a stage there.
But city officials rejected that plan, saying that Lower Manhattan could not handle the throngs of spectators who would be drawn downtown. So Macy's settled for a third consecutive year of staging its fireworks show on six barges in the Hudson River. 
Beyonce will still sing a couple of songs for NBC's national broadcast of the fireworks. But that performance, which was scheduled to be taped on Friday night, was relegated to a barge tied up about 100 yards from the eastern edge of Liberty Island, the Statue of Liberty's home.
The department-store chain's dashed hopes for a monumental backdrop for the display shows just how tricky it can be to navigate the logistical and political shoals of the city and its various, demanding precincts. In Brooklyn, resentment still lingers at the highest levels over Macy's decision to move the fireworks from their longtime spot in the East River to the Hudson two years ago.
That move initially was presented as a one-time shift to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Henry Hudson's landing in Manhattan. But Macy's decided to keep the display on the west side of the island last year in anticipation of moving downriver to the statue this year. Now, Macy's officials are mum about where they want to fire off their rockets next year, despite the parade of entreaties from Marty Markowitz, the borough president in Brooklyn.
Macy's ''should return the pyrotechnic spectacular to the East River or even New York Harbor, where it helps boost our city's economy, bringing viewers out to the restaurants and riverfront nightspots of Brooklyn and the outer boroughs of Manhattan and Queens,'' Mr. Markowitz said. ''As it stands, the celebrants with the best views will once again be residents of New Jersey and the west side of Manhattan, excluding a large part of the city in which Macy's has its flagship store.''
Weary of the interborough competition, Macy's officials say they would prefer to move the fireworks around the city but are constrained by the lack of places to safely ignite 40,000 shells over a throng. ''We also have to think about a viewing location that is easily accessible,'' said Orlando Veras, a Macy's spokesman.
The National Park Service, which controls access to the statue, supported having the fireworks in the harbor and even approved the idea of shooting some of them from the island, said David Luchsinger, the superintendent of the monument. But Mr. Luchsinger rejected the notion of having Beyonce perform on a stage at the base of the statue, even though he said the planners were offering to pay ''the sun, the moon and the stars.'' He said he would not agree to a commercial use of the statue that might get in the way of visitors.
Macy's expects as many as three million people to watch the fireworks in person, many of them packed onto the West Side Highway, to be closed between 23rd and 57th Streets for several hours on Monday. Those who arrive early or have invitations to the Macy's private party can crowd onto the piers and pathways of the Hudson River Park.
Instead of setting up a stage for the network broadcast on the deck of a ship, as it has done the past two years, Macy's has claimed three piers in the park for its ''command center.'' The fee for reserving that space from Sunday evening through Monday night: $50,000. That is a fraction of the amount paid two years ago to the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum for the use of its flight deck as the show's main stage, but it may be the biggest sum Macy's pays to any government agency for the fireworks show.
The rental fee will help to cover the costs of cleaning up after the show for the Hudson River Park Trust, a city-state entity that operates the park. The city shoulders all of the other costs of controlling the crowd and picking up trash afterward, but city officials said they could not provide an estimate of how much all of that overtime for police and sanitation crews will be.
Paul J. Browne, the New York Police Department's chief spokesman, declined to say how much the department has budgeted for July 4 because he said it would reveal how many officers will be deployed.
The Sanitation Department will have a crew of 61 workers, 11 officers and 2 chiefs working eight hours of holiday overtime starting at 8 p.m. Monday, said Vito Turso, spokesman for the department. He said he did not know how much that would cost the city, but said it would be about half as many workers as are used to clean up Times Square on New Year's Day. This year, that effort cost more than $108,000, Mr. Turso said, but he noted that the fireworks watchers will not leave behind tons of confetti.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 2009 Macy's Fireworks display
 the fireworks are set off on barges in the Hudson River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); RETAILERS (72%); CITIES (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2011



76 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rates: A Dowist Perspective

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Stocks and the Fed.

 BODY:
One of my principles of 21st-century public discourse is that nobody ever admits that they were wrong about anything. And so it is with the totally obvious failure of the prediction that interest rates would soar once the Fed stopped adding to its bond holdings. These predictions were made by many people early this year; here's what actually happened:
So sure enough, the usual suspects are claiming that the uptick at the end vindicates their argument.
Now, the first point is obviously that the QE2-blamers were warning about soaring rates when the 10-year bond rate was 3.6 or 3.7; having it bump up to 3.2 after having briefly having fallen to 2.9 isn't exactly what they were telling us would happen.
But more than that, it's obvious that the recent rise in rates reflects increased optimism, not a fear that bond vigilantes are about to pull the plug on America.
How do we know that? Partly by reading the news: the upturn started when Greece passed its austerity package, and continued when the latest manufacturing survey came in better than expected.
But there's also the behavior of other asset prices, in particular stock prices. If what we were seeing was a collapse of investor confidence in America, we'd expect to see stock prices falling. What we actually see is this:
Yep, stock prices soared as interest rates ticked up.
The people who claimed that the only thing keeping rates low was the fact that the Fed was buying bonds were wrong -- full stop. But they will never admit it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



77 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, July 3

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: America's debt ceiling and Congress' failed budget talks continue to dominate the Sunday talk shows.

 BODY:
America's debt ceiling and Congress' failed budget talks continue to dominate the Sunday talk shows this week. Guests will debate the nation's spending issues and entitlement programs before analyzing the war in Afghanistan and the transforming effects of immigration.
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, will appear on C-Span's "Newsmakers" to discuss the debate over raising the debt limit, taxes and entitlement programs. His colleague, Senator John Cornyn of Texas, will speak on the same topic on "Fox News Sunday" before Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Joe Lieberman, Independent of Connecticut, talk about how the troop withdrawal in Afghanistan will affect the situation on the ground.
Senator John McCain will join CNN's "State of the Union" to share his observations on the war effort after his trip around the Middle East. The rest of the program will focus on "making it in America" by examining what it takes to achieve the American Dream in a rough economic environment. Steve Case, co-founder of A.O.L. and chairman of the White House Startup America Partnership, will give insight on how to create jobs, while Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan will speak on the state of homeownership in America.
ABC's "This Week" will celebrate Independence Day by taking a look at the Constitution and its influence on current political debates. Professors Michael Eric Dyson of Georgetown University and Jill Lepore of Harvard University will join a roundtable of analysts to decide if the text favors either political party's arguments. Later, Michelle Rhee, former D.C. schools chancellor, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, and Jose Antonio Vargas, a Pulitzer-prize winning undocumented immigrant, will discuss what it means to be an immigrant in the United States today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); RAND PAUL (57%); STEVE CASE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



78 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Obama Again Assails Tax Breaks

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: In his weekly radio address, the president again portrays Republicans as the defenders of hedge-fund managers and corporate-jet owners.

 BODY:
 7:32 a.m. | Updated President Obama on Saturday repeated his challenge to Republicans to accept higher taxes on wealthy people and corporate interests, as part of a plan to reduce the budget deficit.
 In remarks prepared for his weekly address, Mr. Obama said that reaching an agreement would demand tough choices of both Democrats and Republicans, and that taxes could not be off limits.
 "It would be nice if we could keep every tax break, but we can't afford them," he said, reprising a theme he struck in a news conference on Wednesday. "Because if we choose to keep those tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, or for hedge-fund managers and corporate-jet owners, or for oil and gas companies pulling in huge profits without our help - then we'll have to make even deeper cuts somewhere else." 
Mr. Obama listed college scholarships, medical research and Medicare costs for the elderly as the kinds of programs that would suffer if the White House and Congress could not agree on some tax revenues to be part of the multitrillion-dollar budget package. He noted that in negotiations steered by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the two sides had already identified more than $1 trillion in spending cuts.
But the negotiations have bogged down in recent days, with Republicans flatly rejecting any revenues from tax increases. In the news conference, Mr. Obama chided the lawmakers for leaving a deal until the 11th hour, comparing them unfavorably to his daughters, Malia and Sasha, who he said generally finished their homework a day early.
Senate leaders canceled a planned recess next week to continue negotiating. The Treasury has said the government will reach its debt ceiling on Aug. 2 and that it will no longer be able to borrow to keep operating and repay existing debt. The White House believes that it must have a deal by July 22 to get legislation through both houses and to the president's desk by that deadline, Democratic officials briefed on the talks said this week.
In the Republican address, Senator Dan Coats of Indiana criticized the president's handling of the economy and suggested that he looked to Indiana for guidance on solving Washington's fiscal crisis. "The Hoosier way is quite simple - we work hard and we live within our means," Mr. Coats said. "In Indiana, we understand that you cannot spend more money than you take in."
Indiana officials, he said, had the "political courage and moral sense" to know that they had to "spend less, borrow less and tax less," to resolve the state's problems. "The president and Democrats in Congress must recognize that their game plan is not working," Mr. Coats said. "It's time to acknowledge that more government and higher taxes is not the answer to our problem."

        
Obama Is Fund-Raising in Philadelphia
        
Romney to Get Some Welcome Help
        
Christie Crows About Changes to Pension System 
        
Obama's Social Media Outposts Join the Campaign
        
Boehner Warns Obama on Libya Operations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MEDICARE (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (54%) budget deficit; president obama; Obama, Barack; Federal Budget (US); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAN COATS (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



79 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Black Chicagoans Fuel Growth of South Suburbs

BYLINE: By DARNELL LITTLE and DAN MIHALOPOULOS. 
dlittle@chicagonewscoop.org dmihalopoulos@chicagonews coop.org

 BODY:
One path that so many black middle-class home buyers have followed from Chicago's South Side in recent years ends just off Lincoln Highway, past the entrance to the Newbury Estates subdivision in Matteson.
On Willow Road, a boulevard lined with 3,200-square-foot houses, five of the nine buyers in the 1000 block moved to Newbury Estates from heavily black sections of the South Side. Buyers came from the Woodlawn, Park Manor, Morgan Park, Gresham and Englewood neighborhoods, property records show.
The subdivision, about 30 miles from the Loop, represents only part of a much greater migration to the south suburbs from 2000 to 2010. In all, Chicago's black population declined by about 181,000 people, or 17 percent, in that period, according to recently released figures from the 2010 census. The rapid contraction of the black population was the main driver of the city's overall population loss of about 200,000 in the last decade, a fact noted by Rahm Emanuel in his mayoral inauguration speech in May.
''No great city can thrive by shrinking,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ''The best way to keep people from leaving is to attract the jobs that give them a good reason to stay.'' 
But many left despite having good jobs in the city. Although the census data does not indicate where those who left Chicago ended up, the new population figures show that Matteson recorded the largest numerical increase in blacks of any city in the Chicago area.
Statistics obtained by the Chicago News Cooperative reveal rising income levels in parts of Matteson and other south suburbs where the black population grew rapidly in the last decade, suggesting that high wage earners factored prominently in the movement from the city to the southern periphery of Cook County.
The trend of blacks' leaving Chicago in the past decade apparently included all economic levels, said Alec Brownlow, a geography professor at DePaul University. Spiking foreclosure rates in South Side and West Side neighborhoods increased the already high number of vacant and abandoned homes, making those areas less popular with middle-income blacks, Mr. Brownlow said.
''I would imagine that the wave of out-migrants displaced by the teardown of public housing units is supplementing the middle classes moved by the foreclosure crisis,'' he said.
The Chicago Housing Authority's demolition of public housing across the city was responsible for the sharpest declines in what had been predominantly black census tracts. But housing authority officials, in a report released in April, said most families from the vanished high-rise developments resettled within the city, mostly in low-income, minority neighborhoods.
The decline in the black population in the first decade of the 21st century was evident across Chicago, including in many historically middle-class areas.
Demographers say some blacks from Chicago and other Northern cities moved as far away as the South, where they have ancestral ties. But in the Chicago area, many blacks with the economic means to buy new homes are living in places like Matteson, where a middle school near the new $24 million community center is named after Colin L. Powell. Some Chicagoans who moved to Matteson in the last decade say the highly promoted revitalization of some parts of the city did not touch their old neighborhoods as much as it improved downtown and nearby areas that gentrified.
Whatever advances came under former Mayor Richard M. Daley's administration were not enough for Rodney Smith, a corporate account manager for FedEx in downtown Chicago. He left his longtime home on the Southeast Side in 2003 for Park Forest and moved to Matteson in 2007, buying a house in a new subdivision across Lincoln Highway from Newbury Estates.
''It didn't matter how far I had to drive,'' Mr. Smith, 52, said. ''For me -- I came from 96th and Yates -- this is paradise. It was a shooting gallery there every night. I was just a typical homeowner trying to get the hell out of the city.''
Mr. Smith said a succession of Chicago police commanders ''promised to get the gangs and the drugs under control, and there was no real change.''
While he checked the mailbox at the end of his driveway in the Ridgeland Estates subdivision, he said he would be interested in returning to the city only if he could move into a condominium on the lakefront. The $1,700 that he spends on his monthly mortgage payments for his spacious home in Matteson would be enough for no more than a small unit in a desirable section of Chicago, he said.
In the city, Mr. Smith said: ''There is no middle. Daley and his politics effectively did what was rumored -- middle-class erosion. It's either rich or poor.''
Mr. Smith's only misgiving about life in Matteson is that his neighborhood is almost entirely black, and he had wanted his family to experience living in a mixed neighborhood. From 2000 to 2010, Matteson (which has a population of roughly 19,000) experienced an 85 percent increase in its black population, to almost 15,000. The white population dropped from more than 4,000 to less than 2,800.
During that same period, average incomes soared in many newly developed areas of the city off Interstate 57. In the census tract where Newbury Estates was built in the middle of the last decade, the median household income rose by about $5,000 when adjusted for inflation, to almost $95,000 a year, according to statistics from the Illinois State Data Center. Similar rises in median income also occurred in parts of other south suburbs where the black populations grew dramatically, including Richton Park, South Holland, Lansing and Park Forest.
Nonetheless, there are some clouds even over Matteson and its neighbors. The economic downturn and real estate market bust in recent years have taken a toll, prompting fear among some of the newcomers that their refuge may succumb to the same urban woes they fled.
Joseph Fondern, 47, president of the Newbury Estates homeowners' group, said that one of his neighbors had not paid his neighborhood maintenance fees since coming from the city a couple of years ago. Referring to the recent arrivals from Chicago, Mr. Fondern said, ''The unfortunate thing about some, not all, of them is they are not used to many things in this community, like being in a homeowners' association.''
The economic makeup of homebuyers in many largely black areas of the south suburbs is shifting, too. In the areas that gained the most blacks in the last decade, 42 percent of buyers in 2006 were middle- and upper-income, according to the Woodstock Institute, a research group in Chicago. That figure dropped to 26 percent by 2009.
But whatever their income level, the newcomers say they feel more at ease after leaving the city. James Turner, an engineer at the University of Chicago, said he and his wife moved to Newbury Estates in 2005 because ''there is too much chaos'' in Englewood, where they used to live. Mr. Turner, 58, recalled his old neighborhood as he worked in the front yard of his 3,000-square-foot home.
''You can't trust the city,'' Mr. Turner said. ''You can't trust it to have peace unless you are somewhere on the North Side, next to the lake. Maybe Rahm Emanuel can do something and put the police where they should be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Borris Hooker, 46, working on his yard in the Newbury Estates section of Matteson, which has a growing blackpopulation.
 Homes along Willow Road in Newbury Estates, above. The town of Matteson has lured many Chicagoans, like Rodney Smith, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); CENSUS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (85%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); TRENDS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%); DISPLACED PERSONS (65%); GEOGRAPHY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (95%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



80 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Elsewhere

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
FOR city dwellers who haven't fallen under the spell of the Hamptons, there are plenty of other escapes, including popular beaches to the south in New Jersey and lakeside hideaways to the north in the Hudson Valley. 
''People started early this year,'' said Theresa Jensen, a broker at the real estate firm 21st Century Mary Allen on Long Beach Island, N.J. ''I think with the winter and the weather we had, everyone was thinking summer way ahead of time.''
A lifelong resident of the island, which is 18 miles long and barely four blocks wide, Ms. Jensen said that while getaway places could still be booked, as the Fourth of July approached, they were moving fast.
Properties on the bay side of the island start as low $1,200 a week and top out at around $4,000 a week. On the ocean side, she said, rentals also start as low as $1,200 a week but go all the way to $18,000 a week.
Ms. Jensen said a five-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath house on the ocean was renting for $5,900 a week. Although it is been a good season so far, she said, as the summer drags on some landlords will negotiate.
In the Hudson Valley the summer rental market is harder to gauge, with many properties rented directly by the owners.
The overall housing market downturn has had an impact, said H. Pete Lazier, principal broker and owner of Coldwell Banker Currier & Lazier Realtors in Middletown, N.Y.
He said that with people either unable to secure financing to buy homes or just fearful of entering the market, interest has surged in year-round rentals.
''We get calls every day,'' he said.
That demand has affected the summer picture, since fewer short-term rental properties are available.
Laura Pheriault has rented out her small two-bedroom cottage on Kinderhook Lake in Columbia County for the last three summers and said it had been steadily occupied the entire time.
The other day, she still had a vacancy for the last two weeks of August. She was charging $900, which she said was on the lower side for lakefront property.
''My place is very basic,'' Ms. Pheriault said. ''It is very rustic.''
In hard economic times, she said, it was better to be reasonably priced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LAKES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



81 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: Never an Empty Seat

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
DAYTON, Ohio -- The assembly line lives. Back when this region thrived on heavy industry, a Delco plant bustled on the edge of downtown. Nowadays, on the site where automobile parts once rolled off the belt, Dayton produces sold-out baseball games.
On Saturday, barring a rainout, the Dayton Dragons will have their 815th consecutive sellout, surpassing the national sports record set by the N.B.A.'s Portland Trail Blazers from 1977 to 1995.
This is a stunning success, considering the decline of industry even before the recent recession. Yet the city is holding on, as fans subscribe to season-ticket plans, lured by the old American game itself -- and maybe even more by showbiz shtick from performers known as the Green Team and goofy mascots like Gem and Heater.
''I took my 90-year-old mother to games for three years,'' said Fritz Menke, a season-ticket holder since 2000, the first year. ''If I asked one of the Green Team, Heater would come over and give her a kiss on the top of her head, and she would get all red in the face -- and talk about it for a week afterward.'' 
His mother has since died, but Menke retains a partial-season plan. Fans are so loyal that some have waited three years to be able to subscribe, a tribute to the upbeat approach of the Mandalay Entertainment Group and its baseball division, which owns six minor league teams. Its investors include the movie magnate Peter Guber and the sports icons Magic Johnson and Archie Griffin.
Minor league baseball has been rebounding for several decades, with new stadiums replacing rickety, gloomy old parks. But no franchise has sold out like the Dragons of the Class A Midwest League, who have also sent Adam Dunn, Joey Votto and Jay Bruce to the parent Cincinnati Reds, just 52 miles down Interstate 75.
''When Joey and I played there, people told me that if you never make the majors, this is as close as you will ever come,'' said Chris Dickerson, an outfielder with the Yankees, who batted .303 for the Dragons in 2004. ''Everything was first class -- the front office, the ground crew, a true class act. I still have dear friends in the Reds organization that I met in Dayton. It's no surprise they're about to break the record.''
The wonder is that Mandalay has thrived in a region that has taken a terrible hit in recent generations. Dayton is known for innovators like the Wright Brothers of aviation; Charles F. Kettering, a founder of Delco; and John H. Patterson, the founder of NCR, once known as National Cash Register.
Then industry began drying up and so did Dayton -- down about 40 percent to an estimated 158,832 in 2009 from 262,332 in 1960, according to the Census Bureau. The metropolitan region has about one million residents, but the core of the city was looking threadbare in the mid-1990s. One early believer was Anthony Capizzi, then a city commissioner, now a Montgomery County Juvenile Court judge.
''Being an urban mayor, I knew that people went to games in downtown Cincinnati,'' said Michael Turner, a former mayor of Dayton and now a five-term United States representative from the district. ''We felt they would come here for the right mix.''
A task force began trying to lure a baseball team to keep the city active in the warmer months.
''We found out it wasn't so easy,'' said Dan Sadlier, then the president of Fifth Third Bank, who praised Maureen Pero and others on the task force.
A Bold Stroke of Green
The region has a great baseball tradition. Cincinnati had the first professional team in the country in 1869 and Dayton has sent many fans and nationally prominent sportswriters downstate to follow the Reds. But in the 1990s, Marge Schott, the owner of the Reds, was asserting her right to ban all competition in a 75-mile radius. In 1999, Schott was phased out for other reasons, and the new leadership agreed to stock a prospective farm team in Dayton.
The Mandalay group found an available franchise in Rockford, Ill., but it needed a ballpark. Some suburban communities and one college wanted to host the team, but the task force wanted the team to help revitalize the crumbling downtown.
One of the challenges was ''the urban myth'' of crime, said Joe Tuss, the deputy county administrator for Montgomery County. Another myth was that driving downtown would be difficult.
''We'd love to have traffic and parking problems,'' Tuss said the other day.
The leaders knew taxpayers would be skeptical of the cost, but the ballpark never went to a referendum. Tuss said Mandalay invested $5.5 million into building a stadium and agreed to pay for 100 percent of the upkeep in a long-term commitment. Under Sadlier's leadership, Fifth Third Bank bought the naming rights for 20 years. Tuss said the city invested $22.5 million on streets, sidewalks and the infrastructure around the ballpark.
Once the team was set for the 2000 season, Mandalay went to work with its bodies-in-seats expertise.
''We believe minor league baseball is a great marriage between entertainment and sports,'' said Art Matin, the chief executive of Mandalay, based in New York. Matin was not with the company then, as it dispatched talented executives including Jon Spoelstra, who had helped Portland establish the sellout record about to be broken by the Dragons.
The biggest move may have been the transfer of two Mandalay executives -- Robert Murphy, now the chief operating officer for all six Mandalay baseball teams, and Eric Deutsch, the executive vice president -- to Dayton from Las Vegas. Their mission was to install a ballpark culture that would be ''almost Disneyesque,'' Deutsch said.
There is nothing minor league about these two executives, who wear business suits and take meetings and brandish thick corporate handbooks with guidelines for every occasion. They also exhibit their inner Bill Veeck -- that is, the legendary shirt-sleeve, beer-drinking, cigar-smoking, wooden-legged man of the people who lured fans into seats any way he could.
While drills were blasting out the steel pilings and rubble from the old Delco plant to make room for a new ballpark, the new Mandalay executives hired fake knights and dragons for a 1999 guess-the-nickname shindig, just to get people downtown. They chose a vivid green for the team, avoiding the red associated with the Ohio State Buckeyes and the Big Red Machine of the mid-1970s, both of which throb mightily in Dayton.
Murphy and Deutsch trained their ticket representatives not to strong-arm people into buying plans they could not use, avoiding the yawning box seats like those at Yankees and Mets games in their expensive new playgrounds.
The Dragons sold out their first game on April 28, 2000, and have sold out every one since, often surpassing the capacity, now listed as 8,200, including 7,230 seats. Saturday night's home game, a 3-2 victory over Bowling Green, brought the streak to 814.
At the worst of the recession, the Dragons loosened payment schedules, skipping December so people might afford holiday presents. For pure Veeckian impact, Murphy distributes season tickets in flamboyant packaging. He does not force fans to pay in advance for an entire playoff package, then hold the unused money as a quasi-legal down payment for next season, the way many major league teams do -- ''just because they can,'' Murphy said with a trace of disdain.
From the first, Mandalay held training sessions called Dragons University, teaching employees how to treat the customers. Lee Howard, who worked at the Delphi factory until the line stopped moving, is a born diplomat masquerading as an usher behind home plate. The vendors are polite and the cleanup crew moves as fast as a leadoff man. The other night, a young girl spilled her ice cream and a worker arrived, mop in hand, within a minute.
And the price is right. Richard Winters, a mortgage banker, buys four full season tickets for a total of $2,800, slightly below the premium package of $3,500 -- not much more than a few box seats would cost for one game at Yankee Stadium.
''With all due respect to the baseball side,'' he said, the entertainment, the night out, is what keeps the sellouts going.
A Commercial Spark
Jeff Hoagland, the president of the Dayton Development Coalition and also a season-ticket holder, said, ''We were trying to recruit businesses.'' Financial incentives for new ventures are vital, he said, ''but if we have a business coming into town, we'll give them the Dragons experience.''
Other times, he takes his son Charlie. ''He is truly passionate about baseball,'' Hoagland said. ''The players will give him a high-five. We go to Reds games, and he sees guys he knows. The Dragons have changed my life. I see things through the eyes of a 4 1/2-year-old.''
Sometimes all eyes are misty, when the Dragons stage a Home Run for Life, letting a critically ill child round the bases between innings, with both teams lining the basepaths and cheering, with the foghorn booming and the scoreboard glittering and the mascots gamboling.
Not all productions work. Dickerson recalled a promotion in 2004 when ''rocket balloons were supposed to go 60 feet in the air, but it happened to be a windy night and the balloons landed on the field, and players from both teams had to pick up the balloons.''
''One of the great blunders in marketing history,'' he said. ''But they tried.''
The Dragons do not sell standing-room tickets, so regular patrons will not feel crowded at food stands or in restrooms. By definition, the club has negligible walk-up sales, but it tries to attract new fans through limited sales of $7 tickets to three lawn sections behind the outfield. In a sport that is losing its African-American players and fan base, Dayton's crowd has a noticeable minority feel.
''I had a complaint when they started that people didn't get a chance to buy tickets, but they have a good community outreach,'' said Greg Hill, an electronics technician, who is black.
The other night, a couple of dozen young fans from the Boys and Girls Club from Greenville, Ohio, received $11 tickets, courtesy of the United Way, that included a fast-food meal and a souvenir cap.
The Dragons have helped revitalize a few blocks around the park. The city has put in the handsome RiverScape walkway along the adjacent Miami River. Tech Town, a cluster of technology companies, is nearby. A decaying warehouse has been gussied up. An architectural firm renovated an old building and moved in. Offices of Work-flowOne and Deloitte are visible from the plaza outside the park. Six or seven modest housing clusters have sprung up a few blocks away.
''There were a few detractors in the beginning that didn't believe it would be successful,'' said Phil Parker, the president of the Dayton Chamber of Commerce. ''I think they will admit they were wrong.''
Behind right field, the Brixx Ice Company serves drinks and multiple television sets and a full menu in an 1867 building believed to have been the original icehouse for the neighborhood.
''The Dragons have been a godsend to us,'' said Chris Bhai, the burly owner, who is trying to evoke the funky Wrigley Field of his Chicago childhood. The Dragons draw more than 8,000 fans every night, Bhai said, adding, ''I'm just looking for 1 percent of them.''
Close Enough to Baseball
Fifth Third Field is not exactly Wrigley Field or Fenway Park, whose Red Sox have sold out 671 straight games, a major league record. But it's a ballpark. And it sells out every night.
The Dragons have sent 48 players to the major leagues, including Votto, the personable Canadian star of the Reds. When Votto developed anxieties after the death of his father in 2009, he took a few weeks off, then played a few tune-up games in a homecoming to Dayton, where he had lived with a host family when he was with the Dragons.
There is a family mood on game nights. The foghorn blasts at 6 p.m. when the gates open. Fans walk in from free street parking, enjoying the bright sunlight on the far edge of the Eastern time zone. Some fans head for the suites, which can be leased in the high $20,000 range, and others spread out on the wraparound concourse.
On these lush summer evenings, the shaky economy is stored in the back of the mind. Children con adults into buying them snacks; the Green Team lobs free T-shirts into the stands. Manager Delino DeShields, who stole 463 bases in 13 big-league seasons, tries to coax a victory out of young players, most of whom will never make the majors. Yet for these few months, they are the biggest thing in town.
One of the Dragons drops a lovely bunt down the third-base line and beats it out for a single. Some of the fans applaud, making this event feel, oddly enough, just like a ballgame.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since starting play at Fifth Third Field in 2000, the Dayton Dragons have sold out all 814 of their home games, a streak that tied the Portland Trail Blazers. Fan-friendly mascots and players have been a key. (SP1)
Dayton improved the infrastructure around the stadium, and developments followed, including housing and a promenade.
 Eric Deutsch, left, the club's executive vice president, with Bob Murphy, an executive for the Dragons and five other clubs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); BASEBALL (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: MANDALAY ENTERTAINMENT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



82 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Problems With Plastic, Part 2

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
EVERY once in a while I write a Practical Traveler column that really seems to hit a nerve. ''How to Avoid Credit Card Problems Abroad,'' published online June 8, was one of those columns.
Within three days, more than 100 readers had weighed in with tales of woe and hard-won knowledge.
Many of the comments expressed frustration about using American cards -- particularly when traveling in Europe -- which rely on magnetic-strip technology rather than embedded microprocessor chips used in cards that are becoming common outside the United States.
For example, Ian Keay, a painting contractor from San Francisco, wrote about his encounter with fickle credit card acceptance on toll roads in France. ''We rented a car in Paris and sailed South on the A6 and A7,'' through various tollbooths, without a problem, he noted. ''Then, suddenly one just rejected every card we had, and not a soul in sight, holiday traffic backing up behind us, nightmare city.'' He managed to cobble together enough cash to continue, but not without feeling ''the lingering embarrassment of being from a backward country.'' 
Another reader, Amin Nosrat, from Houston, recently returned from Vienna, where he tried to buy a train ticket from an airport kiosk. ''I must have tried five machines and three credit cards,'' he wrote. ''Amazingly (and I don't know why), one finally worked.''
Other readers offered suggestions for workarounds, like carrying cash (or, more specifically, coins) in case a card is rejected by an automated ticket kiosk at train or metro stations. Sunjay Mohan, an American lawyer currently living in Bangalore, India, is one of many readers who simply take out cash at A.T.M.'s, which generally don't discriminate between cards that have chips and those without. ''I travel extensively in Europe and Asia and cash is king,'' Mr. Mohan wrote, adding ''I get local currency as soon as I get down at the airport using my US Bank ATM card and I am good to go.''
Others found that politely asking a clerk to swipe their card again or punch the number into the keypad seemed to do the trick. ''Most merchants now can process both chip and PIN and magnetic swipe cards,'' noted Tracy Myers, a software architect in Beijing who frequently travels to Europe for work. ''They just don't know how to do it and it takes some patience and a bit of insistence,'' he wrote.
Indeed, several readers pointed out that merchants are equipped and, in fact, obligated, by providers like Visa to accept your card, even without a chip, if they normally accept cards by that provider. But as Riley Peterson, from Brooklyn, who spends two to three weeks a month working in Paris, put it: ''Most places will accept Visa in theory; but in practice, if your French is bad or your magnetic strip is old, you're in for some trouble. Nothing worse than trying to buy groceries at rush hour with 20 people behind you and having to explain to the cashier why your card should work, but doesn't.''
His solution: ''I opened a Euro account with Credit Agricole and they issued me a chip & PIN card within a week.'' This was a process, Mr. Peterson added, that involved digging up hotel bills to prove how long he had been in Paris. ''While opening the account was a pain (U.S. utility bills, passports, etc.),'' he wrote, ''it's made life here much more convenient. I just wire money from my Chase account and keep it as a backup for the inevitable situation where my card doesn't work.''
Since the article was published, some banks have announced they are adding chips to the credit cards they offer. On June 17, Chase announced that the newer chip technology known as E.M.V. (for Europay, MasterCard and Visa) will be available on a second card in the company's portfolio, the J. P. Morgan Select Visa Signature card, which comes with a $95 annual fee. The bank previously offered E.M.V. chip cards to a limited number of high-net-worth customers. And U.S. Bank,, which recently introduced an E.M.V. chip to 20,000 customers who use its FlexPerks Travel Rewards Visa, said it plans to offer chip technology in more travel cards later this year.
Travelex offers a preloaded debit MasterCard called Chip and PIN Cash Passport, available in British pounds or euros, equipped with the embedded chip. But some readers pointed out that the card is not a perfect solution. For one, it isn't available online in certain states, including New Jersey, which means those customers must purchase it at a retail store (where the cost is slightly higher) listed on Travelex.com. Also, if you link it to a credit card instead of a debit card attached to your bank account, the transaction may be treated as a cash advance by your credit card company, including associated fees. Furthermore, the exchange rates you'll get when loading it with cash aren't great. And even with the special chip, the card may be rejected as it is accepted only by merchants who take MasterCard.
''I bought one for a recent trip to the Netherlands and never found anywhere where it was accepted,'' wrote Eliot Smith, a university professor from Bloomington, Ind., who ended up turning to the A.T.M. instead. (MasterCard says the situation Mr. Smith encountered was ''a technological glitch'' that has since been addressed.)
Also, according to cashpassport.com, there are a number of countries, including Albania, Belarus and Bosnia, where its Cash Passport cards are not allowed, as they are subject to United States economic sanctions. The site goes on to say that if you attempt to withdraw cash from an A.T.M. or use your card at merchants in those countries, your request will be declined.
Another issue readers encountered was having their charges rejected because their purchases abroad prompted a fraud alert or account freeze by their bank -- even after the banks were notified that the cards would be used in foreign countries. ''We have had that problem over and over again -- with Chase VISA and with Citi MasterCard,'' wrote a reader with the screen name ''katmon'' from Jerusalem. ''We are just finishing a year of travel, and regardless of how many times we went through the list of countries and approximate dates, we were unpredictably denied.''
For all the problems Americans encounter when using their credit cards abroad, a few readers pointed out that foreigners have similar problems when using automated kiosks like those found in New York City subway stations, which require credit card users to enter a United States ZIP code to complete the transaction.
''When a booth wasn't available nearby, this caused problems,'' wrote Judy McGinnis, from Wellesley, Mass., who frequently encountered this issue when living abroad and visiting the States. ''With the number of visitors to NYC, I am surprised that this stumbling block exists,'' she said. ''Not too welcoming.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (87%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (74%); CHIP & PIN PAYMENTS (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (70%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (65%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); INDIA (86%); CHINA (75%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



83 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Rock And the Hard Place On the Deficit

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
DEALING with our nation's gaping budget deficit is going to hurt. So here is a question for policy makers: What would hurt more, raising taxes or reducing spending?
The Republicans who walked out of budget negotiations the other week think they know the answer. They insist that higher taxes would threaten our fragile economic recovery and do serious long-term damage. Better to cut federal spending, they say.
President Obama pressured Republicans last week to accept higher taxes, in addition to reduced spending, as part of a plan to pare the deficit. 
The economic evidence doesn't support the anti-tax view. Both tax increases and spending cuts will tend to slow the recovery in the near term, but spending cuts will likely slow it more. Over the longer term, sensible tax increases will probably do less damage to economic growth and productivity than cuts in government investment.
Tax increases and spending cuts hurt the economy in the short run by reducing demand. Increase taxes, and Americans would have less money to spend. Reduce spending, and less government money would be pumped into the economy.
Professional forecasters estimate that a tax increase equivalent to 1 percent of the nation's economic output usually reduces gross domestic product by about 1 percent after 18 months. A spending cut of that size, by contrast, reduces G.D.P. by about 1.5 percent -- substantially more.
Some in Washington and in the news media have seized on a study I conducted with David Romer, my husband and colleague, that they say shows tax increases having a bigger short-term effect on the economy than spending cuts.
They are mistaken.
Our study, which examined only federal tax policy, found that conventional analysis underestimates the effect of tax changes on the economy substantially. The key problem we address is that changes in taxes are often linked to what is happening in the economy.
A tax surcharge in 1968, for instance, raised taxes because output was rising rapidly and was expected to keep surging. That the economy's growth rate was about average even after that step might be interpreted as evidence that the surcharge did little. But considering the motive for it, and the fact that the economy had been predicted to continue growing quickly when it was introduced, this tax increase appears to have had a substantial chilling effect on the economy.
If there were a similar study on government spending, it would likely show that spending cuts also have larger effects than conventionally believed. Like tax actions, spending changes are often correlated with other factors affecting economic activity. For example, large cuts in military spending, like those after World War II and the Korean War, were typically accompanied by the end of wartime taxes and production controls. Those probably lessened the economic impact of the spending cuts, leading many researchers to underestimate the reductions' effects.
There is a basic reason why government spending changes probably have a larger short-term impact than tax changes. When a household's tax bill rises by, say, $100, that household typically pays for part of that increase by reducing its savings. Its spending tends to fall by less than $100. But when the government cuts spending by $100, overall demand goes down by that full amount.
Wealthier households typically pay for more of a tax increase out of savings, and so they reduce their spending less than ordinary households. This implies that tax increases on wealthy households probably have less effect on the economy than those on the poor or the middle class.
All of this argues against any form of fiscal austerity just now. Even some deficit hawks warn that immediate tax increases or spending cuts could push the economy back into recession. Far better to pass a plan that phases in spending cuts or tax increases over time.
But if federal policy makers do decide to reduce the deficit immediately, reducing spending alone would probably be the most damaging to the recovery. Raising taxes for the wealthy would be least likely to reduce overall demand and raise unemployment.
What about the long-term health of the economy? Here, too, the relative costs of tax increases and spending cuts are often misstated.
Higher tax rates reduce the rewards of work and investing. This can have supply-side effects that lower economic growth over decades.
But a large number of academic studies has found that these effects are relatively small. An excellent survey due to be published in the Journal of Economic Literature found that raising current tax rates by 10 percent would reduce reported income -- the end result of work and entrepreneurial effort -- by less than 2 percent. That is far less than what was hypothesized by prominent Reagan-era supply-siders like Arthur B. Laffer. He and others postulated that raising taxes 10 percent would ultimately reduce income by more than 10 percent, leading to a decline in tax revenue.
Certain spending cuts may also have small effects on long-run growth. Entitlement spending on Social Security and Medicare could probably be slowed without reducing the nation's productive ability. But as the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform emphasized in a report in December, such changes can and should be made in a way that protects the most vulnerable Americans.
Government spending on things like basic scientific research, education and infrastructure, on the other hand, helps increase future productivity. This type of spending often produces high social returns, but the private sector is unlikely to step up if the government pulls back. Case studies described in a recent survey found that less than half of the returns from research-and-development spending were captured by the private investor, so corporations shy away from such endeavors. Cutting federal funds for R.& D. would leave a void and could have significant long-run effects on growth.
These long-term considerations, like the short-run concerns, point to a plan for reducing the deficit that combines spending cuts and tax increases. The cuts should spare valuable investment spending. On the tax side, nearly every economist I know agrees that the best way to raise revenue would be limit tax breaks for households and corporations.
The fiscal commission proposed a concrete plan that would trim a wide range of credits and exemptions, including the preferential treatment of employer-provided health insurance. It would use part of the revenue to reduce tax rates and the rest to cut the deficit. This would help deal with the deficit while actually improving incentives.
The bottom line is that tax increases should be part of any comprehensive budget plan. Opinion polls suggest that many Americans understand this. It is time for policy makers to accept this economic reality.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE AUSTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (60%); KOREAN WAR (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



84 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: California's Next Nightmare

BYLINE: By ALEX PRUD'HOMME

 BODY:
People tend to underestimate the power of floods: six inches of fast-moving water can knock you down; two feet of water can float most cars away. Floods kill an average of 127 Americans a year -- more than tornadoes or hurricanes -- and cause more than $2 billion of property damage annually, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association. 
This spring, the nation was riveted by images of blown levees and submerged towns in the Midwest along the Mississippi River. But an even more threatening situation looms in California, especially around the San Francisco Bay Delta. The delta is the link between two-thirds of the state's fresh-water supply -- which originates in the Sierra Nevada and the rivers of the north -- and two-thirds of the state's population, which resides in the south. Starting in the 1870s, farmers began building 1,100 miles of levees around the delta to control floodwaters and create farmland out of tule marshes. Today many of those levees are old, decrepit and leaking. Jeffrey Mount, a geologist at the University of California, Davis, predicts that there is a 64 percent chance of a catastrophic levee failure in the delta in the next 50 years.
Scientists consider Sacramento -- which sits at the confluence of the Sacramento and American Rivers and near the delta -- the most flood-prone city in the nation. Experts warn that there are two events that could destroy the levees and set off a megaflood. One is an earthquake; the second is a violent Pacific superstorm, like the one called the Pineapple Express, which sweeps water off the ocean around Hawaii and dumps it on the mainland with firehose intensity while battering the coast with high wind and waves. A megaflood would not arrive as gradual seepage; it would be a rapid submerging of hundreds of square miles. Salt water would be sucked from the bay (in what is known as the big gulp) and impelled into the delta, contaminating drinking supplies for 25 million people, destroying some of the nation's most productive farmland, washing away buildings, highways, gas lines and railroads and causing landslides. A flood in the delta could sink downtown Sacramento under as much as 20 feet of water, as well as cripple California (the eighth-largest economy in the world), hobble the nation and disrupt global trade.
Robert Bea, professor of engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, warns: ''In terms of damage, deaths and long-term cost, a rupture in the delta levees would be far more destructive than what happened in Hurricane Katrina. This is a ticking bomb.''
Sacramento has flooded many times, most infamously in 1862, when a 45-day rain turned the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys into vast inland seas. Gov. Leland Stanford attended his inauguration by rowboat, and the state capital was temporarily moved to San Francisco. It was the largest deluge in state history, though geologic records indicate that six other powerful storms swamped the region before then. The chance of a megaflood inundating Sacramento again is not only plausible, predicts the U.S. Geological Survey, but ''perhaps inevitable.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: THE LEVEE PROBLEM: Levees (shown in orange) are berms that prevent a waterway from overflowing. They are made from whatever material is at hand -- earth, clay, sand, rocks, concrete. Levees require constant maintenance and are notoriously susceptible to leaks, because of age, burrowing gophers, shifting tree roots or human error. The land on which they are built subsides, while the water they hold back applies unrelenting pressure. In 1997, more than 30 of the San Francisco Bay Delta's levees failed, flooding an area 30 by 200 miles and killing nine people
in 2004, the Jones Tract levee breach, just west of Stockton, caused $100 million in damage. California is currently trying to rebuild the delta's levees.
THE EARTHQUAKE TRIGGER: There are five separate fault lines in Northern California that put the delta and its levees at the greatest risk. Because of the region's sandy soil, clay and peat, the ground shakes during an earthquake up to 10 times as much in the delta as outside it, increasing the chance of levee failure. Seismologists predict that there is a 40 percent chance of a ''catastrophic'' earthquake of 6.7 magnitude or greater in the region in the next 30 years: a significant quake would destroy the delta's levees.
 THE SUPERSTORM TRIGGER: The U.S. Geological Survey has combined sediment-study data along with meteorological modeling to create a hypothetical situation for an ''ARKStorm'' - a superstorm that could lead to a flood that would devastate the West Coast. The name comes from ''atmospheric river'' (AR): a vast air current that transports water vapor can be more than 300 miles wide and transport the equivalent of 15 times the average water flow of the Mississippi at is mouth. If an atmospheric river hits a mountain range, it can turn into an ARKStorm, which could drop 10 feet of rain in a month, blast winds of 125 m.p.h., displace 1.5 million people and damage a quarter of California's buildings. (GRAPHICS BY BRYAN CHRISTIE) (MM34-MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); RIVERS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); METEOROLOGY (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); LANDSLIDES (76%); OCEANOGRAPHY (76%); LAKES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



85 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Giving Credit to Wal-Mart

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Wal-Mart's Authoritarian Culture,'' by Nelson Lichtenstein (Op-Ed, June 22): 
Wal-Mart has the right to follow whatever corporate policies it deems appropriate to fit its extraordinarily successful business model. The company is tough on suppliers and has a very successful distribution system, and from the efficiencies of both it passes along substantial savings to its customer base. And it provides some 1.4 million jobs for both men and women throughout the United States. Wal-Mart didn't get to be the world's No. 1 corporation by standing still!
You have a choice of where to work, and if you don't want to work at Wal-Mart, you don't have to.
As a professor of business and marketing, I beg to differ with Mr. Lichtenstein on his assumptions and conclusions. Sure, employees at some point have to make tough choices during their working lifetime -- and some may well involve balancing the demands of work and family, especially during this current economic downturn.
A corporation cannot run its business model strictly around the family. Certainly Wal-Mart is not the only company with aspiring lower-level managers who eventually get promoted and have to relocate. How about we give Wal-Mart some credit once in a while rather than always trying to put a ''Target'' on its back.
GEORGE R. COOK Rochester, June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



86 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Complaints About Proposition 13? It Depends on Who's Not Paying

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Elizabeth Lesly Stevens writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
Tom Ammiano, who represents San Francisco in the State Assembly, is bravely venturing where few politicians dare. He advocates revamping Proposition 13, the sacrosanct measure that has essentially frozen many property-tax bills at 1976 levels.
For the past two legislative sessions, Mr. Ammiano has sought to close what he and many others see as a loophole in Proposition 13's treatment of commercial property. Even if an owner sells his entire interest in a piece of commercial real estate, the property is not reassessed if no single entity acquires more than a half-ownership stake. It is easy for corporations to structure deals to avoid a tax increase. 
Mr. Ammiano thinks it's an outrage that companies can skirt the intentions of the law when properties change hands.
''You have very large commercial enterprises, Wells Fargo, Wachovia, with this little sleight of hand in the way they structure ownership,'' he said Wednesday in an interview. ''It is very, very dishonest.''
Yet the feisty Mr. Ammiano is quiet as a church mouse about altering the residential protections of Proposition 13 -- of which he is a signal beneficiary.
Mr. Ammiano, who is also a comedian, pays just $530 a year in taxes on the Bernal Heights home he has owned since 1974. As far as the city and Proposition 13 are concerned, his house is worth $45,600. Zillow estimates its current worth at $645,000. At that value, the tax would be about $7,500.
How good a deal is this? Imagine for a moment that Mr. Ammiano's house was a car. If he parked the car at a metered space near his Civic Center office, the amount he now contributes each day to the commonweal in the form of property tax would buy just a hair less than 29 minutes, curbside.
Perhaps his next stand-up routine could be built around this theme: San Francisco on $1.45 a Day.
There is nothing illegal about Mr. Ammiano's good fortune. As long as a property does not change hands, Proposition 13 limits annual increases to 2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less.
And he is hardly alone. The latest Case-Schiller survey for home sales in San Francisco reports a median market price of $760,000. Yet 23,059 of the 139,918 single-family homes in San Francisco are currently assessed at less than $100,000. If these properties were valued at the median, that would yield about $184 million in additional revenues; even valued at $500,000, they would generate an extra $114 million.
Of course, many people simply cannot afford to have their property taxes jump to market rates. Proposition 13 has delivered just what Howard Jarvis, its crusty champion, wanted: Older residents are not getting squeezed out of their homes by rapidly escalating taxes.
But you can make the case that the cost of that benefit has escalated out of all proportion to reason. It certainly looks that way to Anthony Costa, Mr. Ammiano's next-door neighbor.
Mr. Costa, a City College librarian, bought his house -- a mirror image of Mr. Ammiano's -- in 2004. He pays $8,300 in annual property taxes.
While he says he bears his neighbor no ill-will, what Mr. Costa does object to -- strenuously -- is the reduction in government services he attributes squarely to Proposition 13.
''Prop 13 is a tragedy which has made things in California worse every year since it was passed,'' Mr. Costa wrote in an e-mail. ''The people of California have to settle for inferior schools, libraries, transit, roads, sewers, parks and other services. I don't object as much to my personal tax bill, as I do the obscene discrepancy between the great wealth of this state and the relative poverty of our government and public institutions.''
Even Mr. Ammiano agrees that it is unfair that he pays one-sixteenth the property tax of Mr. Costa. ''My feeling is, there's a need for reform, absolutely,'' he said.
But that isn't where he's expending his energy in Sacramento.
A little defensively, Mr. Ammiano, 69, noted that he had not availed himself of every opportunity to whittle down his property tax bill. ''There is a senior-citizen exemption for homeowners tax in San Francisco,'' he said, ''and I do not take advantage of that.''
Actually, there used to be such a tax break. It was suspended in 2009, according to the city assessor's office -- a victim of state budget cuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Property taxes for Tom Ammiano's Bernal Heights home, center, are a fraction of those paid by his neighbors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOR SWIFT FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TAX LAW (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); ZILLOW INC (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); Z (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



87 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Culture, But in San Francisco?

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
FREE lunch -- heck, free breakfast, lunch and dinner, plus all the M&Ms and Red Bull you can stand -- is a delicious perk of working in Silicon Valley.
Free or even subsidized food in corporate cafeterias makes eminent sense in such a suburban setting. Corporate campuses, built where fruit and nut trees once stood, are cut off by busy thoroughfares. To go out for lunch, you have to drive a mile or so, park, eat and then high-tail it back to work.
Nothing much, food-wise, has sprouted around those campuses. There is not a bite to eat within a half-mile of Hewlett-Packard's midcentury modern lab building in Palo Alto, the model of tech campuses in the valley. 
So when this cafeteria culture hits the big city, does the collision somehow stultify economic activity? Cities, after all, need people out on the sidewalks.
That was an important lesson learned in the 1960s and '70s, after urban renewal advocates like Robert Moses in New York bulldozed neighborhoods in hopes of starting afresh. Buildings with no space for shops rose on the scraped earth, and it took years for people to return to the sidewalks.
All of this comes to mind because San Francisco is offering tax breaks to tech companies that relocate their offices to the city's blighted neighborhoods. Twitter will be the first recipient of this largess when it moves into new offices in the Furniture Mart on a particularly desolate section of Market Street next year.
Twitter, which is competing for talent with Google and Facebook, gives its employees free food. The question is whether those urban employees will leave the building often enough to dramatically improve the neighborhood.
Gabriel Metcalf, the executive director of the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association, or SPUR, an urban policy research group, says the impact of corporate cafeterias in an urban setting has not been rigorously studied. But, Mr. Metcalf says, ''You certainly get more life on the street if everyone is going out to lunch.''
Twitter may be a good test case. Market Street, a wide avenue that bisects downtown San Francisco, begins at the Ferry Building. Smart designers transformed that structure from a seedy and little-used transportation hub; it now teems with shops and restaurants that attract tourists and office workers alike. During the twice-a-week farmers' market, people stand in line for a half-hour to buy ramen, exotic sausages or rotisserie pork sandwiches from food carts.
But a mile and a half up Market, in the shadow of the golden dome of City Hall, it's a different picture. Boarded-up buildings. Empty, littered lots. Even in boom times, the area never improved.
This is where the city has encouraged Twitter to set up shop. To transform the area, though, people will have to get out on the street. When the people come, shops open. When the shops open, more people come. A virtuous cycle begins.
But what happens when people don't leave the buildings -- when the culture of the suburban campus drops into an urban center? Two places in the city offer laboratories of sorts for a possible answer.
In a former industrial neighborhood called Mission Bay, the University of California, San Francisco, built its medical center. The university stashed its cafeterias up off street level. As a result, the area has remained sterile and empty. Employees and students drive in, then drive out. The public stays away.
That is expected to change when Salesforce.com, a company that has thrived providing Web services to corporate sales representatives, finishes building a new headquarters nearby. It will consist of eight buildings over 14 acres -- a suburban campus in the city. The architects, Legorreta & Legorreta, of Mexico City, have incorporated street-level retail space into the project that is open to the sidewalk. They say they want to invite the public in. Salesforce has never had a corporate cafeteria.
Then there is a no-name neighborhood, south of San Francisco's financial district, that is home to a satellite office of Google. While the fare in that office's corporate cafeteria isn't as extensive as it is in the company's home office in Mountain View, 40 miles to the south, it is still copious and free for employees.
The results are not surprising. In the time that Google has been in San Francisco, few establishments that draw people to the sidewalk have opened in its neighborhood. There is a new expense-account-set restaurant across the street, and a taco truck popular with the employees at the nearby Gap headquarters, which also has a corporate cafeteria, though meals there are unsubsidized.
EVEN a city like San Francisco, which in some ways likes to tell people how to live their lives -- trying to ban McDonald's Happy Meals, second-hand smoke outdoors and plastic shopping bags -- is unlikely to start telling companies how to feed their employees.
''It's not the kind of thing you can micromanage,'' says Mr. Metcalf of SPUR. ''It's nice to have something that they leave alone.''
But he hopes that the executives who move into blighted city neighborhoods see a reason to encourage employees to get out.
''The city benefits,'' he says, ''when a company decides to integrate more with the public life of the street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In San Francisco, Twitter will move its offices to a Market Street area where city officials have been promoting more renewal. The company's future home is seen above and from the inside of a Starbucks store at near left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); RETAILERS (66%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); GOOGLE INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



88 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Budget Needs Let Fireworks Fly Lawfully

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
The Fourth of July promises to be more explosive than ever this year in cities and counties where fireworks had been banned for decades.
Colorful pyrotechnics with names like ''Untamed Retribution'' and ''Rain Fire'' will paint the skies above backyards and beaches as consumers find it easier to buy fireworks and elected officials try to reap the benefits.
Desperate to find any source of untapped revenue, many cities, counties and states are scrapping decades-old restrictions on firework sales, trying to rescue budgets battered by several years of economic doldrums. 
A 65-year-old ban on fireworks in Hawkins County, Tenn., was lifted in May after a county commissioner persuaded colleagues that the sales could generate as much as $200,000 in annual permit fees and sales tax revenue.
''Every penny helps,'' said Shane Bailey, the county commissioner.
Still, dry conditions have led parts of the South to buck the trend, especially in Texas, where months of severe drought have prompted many counties to restrict or ban fireworks. Other states worried about wildfires, like Florida and Arizona, have imposed their own limitations.
But in many places, concerns about safety have been trumped by the need for more cash and an ''if you can't beat them, join them'' mentality. Officials in some states, like Pennsylvania, have eased their worries by limiting firework sales for their own residents but allowing out-of-state customers to binge on a vast array of exotic offerings.
''I think the Pennsylvania lawmakers, if they are going to make it illegal for Pennsylvania residents to buy those heavy-duty fireworks, they should ban them completely,'' said Harry Wyatt, the mayor of Phillipsburg, N.J., which is on the state line.
The fireworks industry generated $952 million in sales in 2010, a record, according to the American Pyrotechnics Association, and all signs point to big numbers in 2011 as well. Sales to consumers account for roughly two-thirds of the total.
Only four states continue to ban firework sales: New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts and Delaware. Julie L. Heckman, executive director of the American Pyrotechnics Association, a trade group, said that a decade ago, sales were permitted in only about half the states. Several, including New Hampshire and Kentucky, have loosened restrictions to allow merchants to sell a wider variety, she said.
One of the main reasons bans are being lifted is that residents can simply drive to the next town, or state, to buy fireworks.
''I'm tired of other counties sucking us dry,'' said Mr. Bailey, the county commissioner in Tennessee, who said Hawkins County now had a dozen or so fireworks stands. ''It's a concern when our tax dollars fund services in surrounding counties and we need to improve infrastructure at home.''
In Nebraska, Jim Suttle, the mayor of Omaha, said his city lifted its fireworks ban because everyone was buying them anyway but driving to nearby towns to spend the money.
Even though fireworks were illegal, he said, ''we just kind of turned our heads, and the whole city was alive with people having fun.'' Since the ban has been lifted, he said, ''the response has been very, very positive. I would say 92 to 95 percent of the population supports this.'' Fireworks in Omaha are sold by charities.
The loosening of restrictions on consumer sales comes as some strapped local governments have cut back on large fireworks displays or eliminated them altogether to cut costs. Even in this, however, there is new light for the industry. Jim Souza, president of Pyro Spectaculars, which is producing 400 fireworks shows this Fourth of July, including New York City's, said his business had stayed even after dropping 5 percent each of the last two years.
Governments are increasingly turning to community groups and private donations to help cover the costs of fireworks, industry officials say. The city of Laguna Beach, Calif., for example, held fund-raisers throughout the spring to pay for Monday's celebration.
Restrictions on fireworks sales have long been rooted in fears of injuries. But Ms. Heckman, of the American Pyrotechnics Association, said government officials had been put at ease by data indicating that fireworks had become safer.
There were an estimated 8,600 injuries from fireworks in 2010, compared with 10,900 in 1991, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
At the same time, the amount of fireworks used in the United States increased significantly, to a peak of 282 million pounds in 2005 from 152 million pounds in 2000, an 86 percent increase, according to the American Pyrotechnics Association.
Bill Weimer, a vice president at Phantom Fireworks in Youngstown, Ohio, said the improved safety was a result of strengthened testing standards for the industry that took effect in 1994.
While states have lifted their bans on fireworks sales, many maintain restrictions on what can be sold and who can buy them. In Florida, for instance, fireworks can be bought only for special uses, including scaring away birds from farms or fish, or for railroads to use as a signal.
Apparently there are a lot of people signaling trains or scaring birds, because fireworks stores in Florida abound.
Some states allow fireworks to be sold year-round. Some restrict sales to the weeks before the Fourth of July, when most fireworks are sold. Many states allow the sale of only ground-based fireworks (as opposed to those that shoot up into the air).
In Pennsylvania, residents are limited to buying sparklers and a few other small-time fireworks. A TNT Fireworks store in Easton, Pa., has a separate entrance for Pennsylvania residents; out-of-state buyers shop in a much larger space behind a wall. Pennsylvania is a popular destination for buyers from New Jersey and New York, two states with bans.
''My father took me to buy fireworks, and now I'm doing it for my kids,'' said Reggie Noble, who was filling his cart with fireworks at the Phantom Fireworks in Easton one day this week. Mr. Noble, 41, who is better known as the rap artist Redman, said it did not make much sense that he cannot buy fireworks in New Jersey, where he lives.
''I can see the dangers they are trying to prevent, but it's still happening,'' he said. ''I vote that they should lift it up.''
Orli Hernandez, 45, had a similar view of New York's ban.
''Everybody buys them,'' said Mr. Hernandez, who lives upstate but plans to shoot off his fireworks in the Bronx. ''They are good for the economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Jersey loses out on tax revenue as residents like Reggie Noble, the rapper known as Redman, buy fireworks in Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCHULTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 In Pennsylvania, at stores like Big D's Fireworks in Blooming Grove, only out-of-state residents can buy the more exotic types. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DROUGHT (77%); SALES TAX (76%); MAYORS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); FIREWORKS SHOPS (73%); TRENDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



89 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: When We Talk About Race

BYLINE: By RICHARD THOMPSON FORD. 
Richard Thompson Ford is a professor of law at Stanford University and the author of ''The Race Card: How Bluffing About Bias Makes Race Relations Worse.'' His new book, ''Rights Gone Wrong,'' will be published in September.

 BODY:
THE END OF ANGER
A New Generation's Take on Race and Rage
By Ellis Cose
308 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $24.99
Dramatic stories of hardship and injustice have always been at the center of the struggle for racial equality. Homer Plessy refused to ride in a segregated black train car in late-19th-/century Louisiana; the World War II veteran George Dorsey and three other African-/Americans were killed by a racist mob outside Atlanta in 1946; Emmett Till was lynched by white bigots in Mississippi in 1955; and in that same year, Rosa Parks sparked the Montgomery bus boycott when she would not surrender her seat to a white passenger. These events and many others inspired activists to press for change and convinced average Americans that change was necessary. The worst abuses of the Jim Crow era have been eliminated, but the moral outrage inspired by a personal encounter with a bigot remains the most powerful vehicle for conveying the injuries and indignities of racial inequality. Accordingly, civil rights lawyers seek out plaintiffs whose grievances reflect larger in/justices, and activists rally around people who symbolize pervasive social problems. 
In his 1993 book, ''The Rage of a Privileged Class,'' the journalist Ellis Cose followed in this tradition, using numerous interviews to show that even wealthy and successful blacks suffered innumerable slights, insults and unexpressed prejudices that left them with an enduring frustration and pessimism. But much has changed in the intervening years, most conspicuously the election of a black man to the presidency. In ''The End of Anger,'' Cose confronts a more complex and at times contradictory America. Drawing on a series of interviews with former participants in A Better Chance -- a program that helps talented, underprivileged students attend elite prep schools -- and with African-American alumni of the Harvard Business School, Cose tracks changing race relations in the post-civil-rights era. He finds that the glass ceiling has been shattered and the anger and resentment that seemed a permanent feature of the black experience in the 1980s and '90s have yielded to a new optimism, which has survived the recession and the racist invective of the Tea Party. This isn't simply irrational exuberance -- the afterglow of Obama-mania. Instead, Cose sketches a picture of steady historical and generational change in which growing optimism among blacks is a natural response to waning racial bigotry among whites.
Cose names each generation of Americans to reflect improving race relations: the black ''fighters'' of midcentury America were succeeded by the civil rights ''dreamers'' of the late 20th century, who are now sharing power and prominence with the ''believers'' of the new millennium. Not coincidentally, midcentury white ''hostiles'' gave birth to post-civil-rights-era ''neutrals'' and, now, Obama-era ''allies.'' The generational scheme is oversimplified, but it offers a useful heuristic device for understanding the evolution of race relations. Cose's collection of intergenerational interviews provides tangible evidence of the improvement in racial dynamics over the last 50 years: the contempt and blatant discrimination suffered by the fighters and dreamers giving way to the inter/racial relationships and expanded job opportunities of the believers.
Nevertheless, any account of American race relations is at best a good news/bad news story. Even successful blacks still feel they must work harder than whites to get ahead, and a host of invisible but potent institutionalized impediments blocks the path of the less fortunate. ''The End of Anger'' takes an extended look at the sometimes deliberate targeting of minority households by banks peddling subprime mortgages, and the tragic consequences of decades of punitive criminal penalties for poor blacks. But personal stories cannot depict institutionalized inequality, inadvertent discrimination and subtle prejudice as readily as they can dramatize the outrages of Jim Crow-style bigotry. It's often hard to tell in any particular case whether an individual injustice has occurred or who is to blame for the patterns of inequality that define today's most dire racial problems. People of all races were seduced by loan officers pushing subprime mortgages, and sometimes such loans were a family's only chance at home/ownership. Similarly, every unsuccessful job interview doesn't involve prejudice. And in some cases tough criminal penalties are both necessary and justified. So Cose supplements interviews with subprime mortgage borrowers and struggling ex-/convicts with statistical analyses, and he interviews lending officers and social service workers -- people who can speak to broad patterns of inequality. Statistical disparities show that racial inequality remains a problem, and careful analysis of lending practices, hiring patterns and law enforcement reveals systemic biases. The combination of interviews and academic studies works, although those studies are not as absorbing as the testimony of an indisputably aggrieved victim.
In the discussions of racial politics and civil rights, the interview-/driven approach faces more severe limitations. Unlike a firsthand account of a moving experience, the calculated statement of a public figure doesn't speak for itself; it demands critical analysis. But as a good journalist, Cose is reluctant to editorialize about his subjects, leaving the reader struggling to distinguish spin from reliable evaluation. These chapters contain some interesting details about the career paths of movers and shakers like the former Tennessee congressman Harold E. Ford Jr. and the N.A.A.C.P. president, Benjamin Jealous, but for the most part Cose's subjects -- well-/established leaders with relatively conventional platforms and constituencies -- give predictable interviews. Politicians speak of reaching across racial lines and connecting to voters from all walks of life -- a no-brainer in today's cosmopolitan society -- and the section on civil rights ends with the anodyne consensus that activists should ''adopt a much broader agenda.'' What institution doesn't want to expand its scope and influence?
In order to respond to the racial in/justices of the new millennium, the civil rights movement will have to do more than broaden its agenda. It will need to change it, putting less emphasis on conspicuous racial animus and more on opaque, systemic and often inadvertent causes of inequality, spending less time and energy on cathartic public demonstrations and more on mundane questions of institutional design. Individual stories of injustice will always be affecting, but it may not be possible to capture the impersonal causes of today's most severe and pervasive inequalities with a personal narrative. This -- not how to bring more people and more causes under the civil rights banner -- is the movement's most pressing test. As Cose remarks, ''The challenge facing civil rights groups . . . will be convincing the public that the battle for civil rights is anything but a relic in this age when . . . old-fashioned racism grows weaker by the day.'' In a sense, Cose faced a similar challenge in writing ''The End of Anger'': how can one make the more complex racial problems of today as compelling as the un/ambiguous bigotry of the past?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cose sees Obama as 'both the beneficiary of and the catalyst for a new American vision.' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); WRITERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); MILLENNIUM (76%); WOMEN (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (62%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: End of Anger: A New Generation's Take on Race and Rage, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



90 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Creativity and Fulfillment

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Job Jugglers, on the Tightrope'' (June 26), which described how people in various fields were piecing together multiple part-time jobs in order to make living: 
At one point, the article said that many people in this situation ''may find full-time office work unfulfilling'' or lacking in creativity -- and that they were searching for happiness in their work. But happiness is a byproduct of consistent accomplishment, even in a field that is not glamorous or creative.
I am creative, but after graduating from college, I chose an office job that might seem unfulfilling to some people in the article. I never expected personal fulfillment through my job, though ironically, I often experience it. And I never feel overqualified.
I have been derided by ''friends'' for being a secretary. ''You don't care about prestige,'' one said. ''True,'' I answered.
I do care about health insurance, my small but welcoming apartment (I alone pay the rent), evenings drifting through Lincoln Center, weekends free to pursue the arts -- all made possible by my office job.
And as the recession shows no signs of abating, I feel lucky to be a career legal secretary.
Eileen Pollock
Manhattan, June 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



91 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Alessia Pirolo, Christopher Alessi

 BODY:
Alessia Pirolo, a daughter of Laura Bertollo and Ruggero Pirolo, both of Padua, Italy, was married Saturday to Christopher Adolph Alessi, a son of Robert A. Alessi and Emma Rein Alessi of Manhasset, N.Y. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. Pietro Lievore, a Roman Catholic priest, at the church of San Nicolo, in Padua. 
The bride, 29, and the bridegroom, 24, met at Columbia, from which they received master's degrees in journalism.
The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, is a freelance writer in New York whose focus is real estate. She graduated from the University of Padua.
The bridegroom is an associate staff writer for the Web site of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, where he covers economics. He graduated from New York University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (87%); RELIGION (87%); WRITERS (86%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



92 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Pushes Back With Young Muscles

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
Detroit
THE rooftop party was in full swing when midnight approached on a warm Friday evening. Kerry Doman, 29, founder of an event planning business; Justin Jacobs, 28, head of a citywide recreational sports league, and Ara Howrani, 29, a photographer who runs a commercial studio, knocked back beers, while a group of office friends from a nearby dot-com chatted about the scratch-and-sniff wallpaper in their colorful new headquarters.
In another circle, a group of real estate brokers excitedly discussed the renovation of a 1920s office tower called the Broderick into a 127-unit apartment building with a restaurant, lounge and retail stores.
''I want the penthouse,'' Jeffrey Hillman, 37, said jokingly as he pointed to the building's ornate Baroque-style top in the distance. ''I'll fight you for it,'' retorted Hank Winchester, 37, a local TV reporter. 
The scene might have been run of the mill in Seattle or Williamsburg, Brooklyn, or other urban enclaves that draw the young, the entrepreneurial and the hip. But this was downtown Detroit, far better known in recent years for crime, blight and economic decline.
Recent census figures show that Detroit's overall population shrank by 25 percent in the last 10 years. But another figure tells a different and more intriguing story: During the same time period, downtown Detroit experienced a 59 percent increase in the number of college-educated residents under the age of 35, nearly 30 percent more than two-thirds of the nation's 51 largest cities.
These days the word ''movement'' is often heard to describe the influx of socially aware hipsters and artists now roaming the streets of Detroit. Not unlike Berlin, which was revitalized in the 1990s by young artists migrating there for the cheap studio space, Detroit may have this new generation of what city leaders are calling ''creatives'' to thank if it comes through its transition from a one-industry.
With these new residents have come the trappings of a thriving youth culture: trendy bars and restaurants that have brought pedestrians back to once-empty streets. Places like the Grand Trunk pub, Raw Cafe, Le Petit Zinc and Avalon Bakery mingle with shops with names like City Bird, Sole Sisters and the Bureau of Urban Living.
Those familiar with past neighborhoods-of-the-moment recognize the mood. ''It feels like TriBeCa back in the early days, before double strollers, sidewalk cafes and Whole Foods,'' said Amy Moore, 50, a film producer working on three Detroit projects. ''There is a buzz here that is real, and the kids drip with talent and commitment, and aren't spoiled.''
The rooftop party was hosted by a group called Move Detroit 11/11/11, started with the aim of getting 1,100 new people to move to Detroit by November.
''The Broderick project is huge because, believe it or not, there is not enough housing in the greater downtown area for all the young people moving to Detroit,'' said Kevin Wobbe, 37, a founder of the group.
Kendyll Myles, 24, is one example of a new arrival. ''I am mentoring young schoolgirls after work, modeling for a new fashion design company, and if I wanted, could be out every night at a different launch party or cultural event,'' she said.
After finishing her master's degree in public health last year, Ms. Myles had job offers from hospitals all over the country, including in Washington. Her family urged her to go anywhere but Detroit. ''They thought I would be robbed and shot here,'' she said.
But when she saw IAmYoungDetroit.com, a Web site profiling residents under age 40, she decided Detroit was the city for her. Those featured on the site (which she found after typing into Google ''anything positive about Detroit?'') included Emily Doerr, 26, an M.B.A. candidate who recently opened Hostel Detroit, where guests pay as little as $18 a night for a bed; and Sean Gray, 29, who reimaged a British slogan, ''Keep calm and carry on,'' into posters and T-shirts for Detroiters. The site's publisher, Margarita Barry, 26, this month will open ''71 POP,'' a retail gallery showcasing the work of 71 emerging artists and designers on the ground floor of a previously abandoned building that now has 30 environmentally friendly lofts and artists' studios. (Rents start at $710 a month.)
Part of the allure of Detroit lies in simple economics. Real estate is cheap by urban standards (Ms. Myles lives in a $900-a-month one-bedroom apartment with a garage), and the city is so eager to draw educated young residents that it is offering numerous subsidies to new arrivals. Ms. Myles, for instance, received $3,500 from her employer, which, like many companies in the city, is offering rent or purchasing subsidies to staff members who choose to live in the city.
Detroit Venture Partners is offering start-up financing to early-stage technology companies; Techtown, a business incubator, research and technology park associated with Wayne State University in Detroit, is providing support to entrepreneurs and emerging companies through its ''Thrive'' program. And Bizdom U, an ''entrepreneurial boot camp'' started by Dan Gilbert, the founder and chairman of Quicken Loans, is offering graduates of its four-month-long course financing opportunities of up to $100,000 if they base their start-up in Detroit.
''Downtown Detroit is quickly becoming a hotbed for both entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial companies,'' said Mr. Gilbert, who plans to fill two downtown office buildings he recently bought, as well as one he has a contract to buy, with tech and Web-based companies.
In addition, Green Garage Detroit, an incubator for environmentally friendly companies, plans to open its doors in August to lend support to at least a dozen start-ups. And there's the Detroit Creative Corridor Center, which supplies infrastructure, strategic counseling, consulting and resources for those wanting to start businesses in film, fashion, digital media, production or architecture. With all this help, the city seems like a giant candy store for young college graduates wanting to be their own bosses.
All that has helped create an entrepreneurial spirit that that has led to start-up ventures like the independent clothing company Aptemal begun by two twentysomethings, who are most noted for their ''Detroit Hustles Harder'' hand-printed T-shirts worn by Eminem, among others. The Wheelhouse, a bike store begun by two young women, and the Hub, another cycle shop, are turning the Motor City into a cycling city. And Inside Detroit, a nonprofit organization offering city tours and relocation advice, was begun by a Detroiter at just 25 years old.
''There is so much space and opportunity here,'' said Jason Murphy, 34, one of two Bennington College graduates who bought an iconic restaurant, the Russell Street Deli, in the city's Eastern Market area, three and a half years ago. ''What we hope is that our movement of young people with businesses in greater downtown Detroit can help the many people in the outlying neighborhoods who are still living below the poverty line.'' He and his business partner support the many urban farms popping up in vacant spaces throughout the city, he said, like Grown in Detroit and Brother Nature, and buy locally whenever possible.
Liza Bielby and Richard Newman, both 30 and directors of the Hinterlands Ensemble, moved to Detroit from Milwaukee eight months ago, seeking a sustainable work and living environment for their physical theater company. Between them, they have lived all over the world, from Kosovo, where the couple worked on a multi-ethnic project, to Berlin and China, where Ms. Bielby, a Fulbright scholar, studied traditional Sichuan opera. ''The minute we visited here, I felt as engaged by the people and projects going on as I had felt living anywhere abroad,'' she said.
Luckily, Mr. Newman, her boyfriend, agreed. ''Not only is it more affordable for us than other cities,'' Mr. Newman said, ''but no one is doing exactly what we are trying to do here, which gives us more of a chance to succeed and offer something new to the community.'' They pay $400 a month, he said, to live in a house that is part of an artist's residency project called Filter Detroit.
Detroit's revival is also being attributed to the city's ''15 by 15'' initiative, started in 2008. With a goal of getting 15,000 young talented households to downtown by 2015, government workers, entrepreneurs, philanthropists, business leaders and individuals, along with nonprofit groups, have been working to entice the 94 percent of college graduates who initially migrate to cities, according to recent census figures.
''Our goal is to attract and retain this young talent pool,'' said David Egner, president and chief executive of the nonprofit Hudson Webber Foundation, spearheading the ''15 by 15'' initiative. ''We want to give them affordable housing, interesting jobs and business opportunities they cannot find in other cities.'' His biggest obstacle, he added, is still the city's reputation of being a dangerous place to live. ''Crime in downtown Detroit is actually 37 percent less than the national average, but few people know that,'' he said.
Perhaps no one is more passionate about the city, though, than those who grew up in Detroit -- like Monica Blaire, 29, a singer her fans call the ''new Aretha Franklin.'' ''It is fantastic to see all these people rediscovering the city,'' said Ms. Blaire, who last year was one of 12 Detroiters to receive a Kresge Artist Fellowship, a $25,000 award that also included professional development and support for her songwriting.
This spring the opening ceremony for Hostel Detroit seemed more like a college party. While Mr. Howrani shot photos of Ms. Doerr, the hostel founder, thanking her supporters, Ms. Bielby of the Hinterlands Ensemble entertained the crowd on her trombone as part of the Detroit Party Marching Band, a makeshift musical troupe with colorful uniforms. On several picnic tables were sandwiches and treats donated by local restaurants, like the Russell Street Deli. Among the guests were officials from the office of the city's mayor, Dave Bing, as well as the lieutenant governor.
Between greeting friends and shooting photos, Mr. Howrani, who had previously lived in Los Angeles, explained why he and his sister, Ana, who had been living in Seattle, happily left the West Coast: ''Basically, being a part of Detroit's resurgence is incredibly fun.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about revitalization in downtown Detroit referred incorrectly to the Detroit Party Marching Band. They received their uniforms from a high school band director in Iowa; the uniforms were not found in an abandoned Detroit public school.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DETROITERS: The Detroit Party Marching Band, a makeshift ensemble, in a performance, above. A rooftop party, hosted by Move Detroit 11/11/11, a group that wants 1,100 new residents in Detroit by November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARA HOWRANI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); CITIES (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); RETAILERS (69%); CENSUS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); YOUTH MARKET (65%); BAKERIES (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (51%); POPULATION DECLINE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011



93 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Big Banks Easing Terms on Loans Deemed as Risks

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
As millions of Americans struggle in foreclosure with little hope of relief, big banks are going to borrowers who are not even in default and cutting their debt or easing the mortgage terms, sometimes with no questions asked.
Two of the nation's biggest lenders, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, are quietly modifying loans for tens of thousands of borrowers who have not asked for help but whom the banks deem to be at special risk.
Rula Giosmas is one of the beneficiaries. Last year she received a letter from Chase saying it was cutting in half the amount she owed on her condominium.
Ms. Giosmas, who lives in Miami, was not in default on her $300,000 loan. She did not understand why she would receive this gift -- although she wasted no time in taking it. 
Banks are proactively overhauling loans for borrowers like Ms. Giosmas who have so-called pay option adjustable rate mortgages, which were popular in the wild late stages of the housing boom but which banks now view as potentially troublesome.
Before Chase shaved $150,000 off her mortgage, Ms. Giosmas owed much more on her place than it was worth. It was a fate she shared with a quarter of all homeowners with mortgages across the nation. Being underwater, as it is called, can prevent these owners from moving and taking new jobs, and places the households at greater risk of foreclosure.
''It's a huge problem,'' said the economist Sam Khater. ''Reducing negative equity would spark a housing recovery.''
While many homeowners desperately need help to keep their homes and cannot get it, the borrowers getting unsolicited relief from Chase sometimes suspect a trick. Cutting loan balances, even for loans in default, is supposedly so rare that Federal Reserve economists wrote in a paper in March that ''we could find no evidence that any lender was actually reducing principal'' on mortgages.
''I used to say every day, 'Why doesn't anyone get rewarded for doing the right thing and paying their bills on time?' '' said Ms. Giosmas, who is an acupuncturist and real estate investor. ''And I got rewarded.''
Option ARM loans like Ms. Giosmas's gave borrowers the option of skipping the principal payment and some of the interest payment for an introductory period of several years. The unpaid balances would be added to the body of the loan.
Bank of America and Chase inherited their portfolios of option ARMs when they bought troubled lenders during the housing crash.
Chase, which declined to comment on its program, got $50 billion in option ARM loans when it bought Washington Mutual in 2008. The lender, which said last fall that it had dealt with 22,000 option ARM loans with an unpaid principal balance of $8 billion, still has $33 billion of them in its portfolio.
Bank of America acquired a portfolio of 550,000 option ARMs from its purchase of Countrywide Financial in 2008. The lender said more than 200,000 had been converted to more stable mortgages.
Dan B. Frahm, a spokesman for Bank of America, said it was using every technique short of principal reduction to remake its loans, including waiving prepayment penalties, refinancing, lowering the interest rate, postponing some of the balance and extending the term.
''By proactively contacting pay option ARM customers and discussing other products with better options for long-term, affordable payments, we hope to prevent customers from reaching a point where they struggle to make their payments,'' Mr. Frahm said.
Chase, Bank of America and the other big lenders are negotiating with the Obama administration and the nation's attorneys general over foreclosures. Debt forgiveness and the moral hazard question of who deserves to be helped are among the most contentious issues.
The banks say cutting mortgage balances would be unfair to borrowers who remain current as well as impractical because so many loans are securitized into pools owned by investors. Bank of America's chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, told the attorneys general in April that cutting principal for current borrowers would send the wrong message to all those who have struggled to pay their bills. His counterpart at Chase, Jamie Dimon, bluntly said it was ''off the table.''
Having an option ARM loan, however, apparently qualifies the borrower for special help. The loans, with their low initial payments and ''teaser'' interest rates, were immediately popular with buyers who could not afford or did not want to pay the soaring prices on houses. The problem was, eventually the rate would reset or the loan balance would have to be paid in full. ''Nightmare Mortgages'' they were called in a 2006 BusinessWeek cover piece.
Option ARMs were never quite as bad as predicted, partly because the crisis pushed down interest rates so far that the resets were relatively mild. Many owners did default on them, but others, like Ms. Giosmas, were quite happy to pay less for years than they would have under a conventional loan. She used option ARMs on her investment properties too.
''They saved me,'' she said. ''Why would I want to pay a lot more every month? I'd rather have it in my pocket.''
The concern the banks are showing for those who might get in trouble contrasts sharply with their efforts toward those already foreclosed. Bank of America and Chase were penalized last month by regulators for doing a poor job modifying mortgages in default.
Adam J. Levitin, a Georgetown University law professor, said these little-publicized programs were more evidence that the banks were behaving in contradictory and often maddening ways.
''Loan modifications that should be happening aren't, while loan modifications that shouldn't be happening are,'' he said. ''Homeowners of any sort, whether current or in default, would rightly be confused and angry by this.''
The homeowners getting new loans, however, are quite pleased. In effect, the banks are paying the debt these owners accrued as the housing market plunged.
Ms. Giosmas bought her two-bedroom, two-bath apartment north of downtown Miami for $359,000 in early 2006, according to real estate records. She made a large down payment, but because each month she paid less than was necessary to pay off the loan, her debt swelled to about $300,000.
Meanwhile, the value of the apartment nosedived. By the time Ms. Giosmas got the letter from Chase, the condominium was worth less than half what she paid. ''I would not have defaulted,'' she said. ''But they don't know that.''
The letter, which Ms. Giosmas remembers as brief and ''totally vague,'' said Chase was cutting her principal by $150,000 while raising her interest rate to about 5 percent. Her payments would stay roughly the same.
A few months ago, Ms. Giosmas sold the place for $170,000, making a small profit. Having a loan that her lender considered toxic, she said, ''turned out to be a blessing in disguise.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



94 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Biweekly Payoff

BYLINE: By MARYANN HAGGERTY

 BODY:
WITH interest rates low, biweekly mortgage payment plans are looking less attractive than ever.
If you have recently taken a mortgage, you are likely to receive solicitations pushing these plans, from your own lender or a third party. The pitch is that for a few hundred dollars up front, you can painlessly save thousands in the long term on interest, simply by having half your mortgage payment debited from your bank account every two weeks, instead of paying monthly.
For years, financial advisers and consumer advice columnists have offered the same caution about such plans: Don't pay to participate. You can achieve the same results yourself at no cost. 
''I would never pay a bank for that option, because basically a biweekly is sending in one extra payment a year,'' Robert B. Walsh, a principal of Lighthouse Financial Advisors in Red Bank, N.J., said of the payment plan.
The 26 every-other-week payments each year are the equivalent of 13 monthly payments, and the extra cash goes to cut your principal, allowing you to pay off the loan earlier. How much earlier depends on your interest rate. If you had a 30-year fixed-rate loan at 7 percent -- outrageously high these days -- you would pay it off in 23.9 years, and save $33,555 in interest on each $100,000 of principal, assuming you began biweekly payments right after you took out the loan. With the same loan at 4.5 percent, payoff would require 25.7 years and save just $13,619.
Citibank calls its BiWeekly Advantage Plan ''a faster way to build your home equity.'' The plan charges a $375 enrollment fee, plus $1.50 per draft. Other biweekly plans, including third-party payment services, charge similar amounts. Some lenders, including Wells Fargo and Bank of America, offer biweekly plans free to customers who pay from an account with that bank.
Citibank acknowledges the do-it-yourself advice. ''Some homeowners try to make extra principal payments themselves, but most aren't able to keep a consistent schedule,'' the bank says on its Web site.
Nonetheless, technology makes such payments particularly painless. If your lender offers direct payments via an online site, it will let you add extra principal to the payment. Add an amount equal to one-twelfth of your monthly payment, and don't think of it again.
If you physically mail a check each month, you'll have to think some, but not a lot. Your payment coupon has a line where you can write in the additional principal amount you are paying.
Asked why Citibank offered biweekly payment plans, Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for Citigroup, said it is ''a matter of client preference'' and pointed out that some clients do not bank online.
Albert Engel, an executive vice president of Valley National Bank in Wayne, N.J., distinguishes between payment plans, which he calls ''synthesized biweekly mortgages,'' and the biweekly loans his bank offers. Those loans are amortized biweekly, in contrast with most payment plans, which accelerate payments without changing the underlying monthly accrual schedule.
That is, while you pay each two weeks, nothing is credited to your account until the monthly due date. Valley National's loans credit those payments every 14 days, for a slightly faster payoff.
At today's rates, few customers choose biweekly loans, Mr. Engel said. Still, ''it remains a standard product for us,'' he said. ''As rates increase, we expect this program will become much more fashionable.''
Mr. Engel is particularly dismissive of third-party payment plans, saying borrowers are ''foolish'' to pay a fee. If nothing else, he suggests a low-tech alternative. ''Write a check for half the mortgage each two weeks, and put it in a coffee can.'' Each month, send two checks from the coffee can. At the end of a year, there will be two extra checks; send those.
''In effect,'' he said, ''they are doing the same thing a lot of these entities are charging to do.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); INTERNET BANKING (76%); ADVICE COLUMNS (70%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WEB SITES (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



95 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Lonely Voyage of Player,Piano and Audience

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
CRAIG TABORN was deep into a solo expedition one recent evening at the Rubin Museum of Art in Manhattan, seeming for all the world like someone cracking a secret code. Poised for action at a grand piano, he disrupted an expectant stillness with a turbulent digression. With his left hand he formed the lopsided bass-clef vamp of a piece called ''Avenging Angel''; with his right he improvised complex annotations, firing them off in boldface or sleek cursive. It was taut, transfixing music, sharpened by the austerity of the setting: just Mr. Taborn at the piano, on his own.
Solo piano, as a mode of performance, holds a privileged place in jazz, with a history predating the origins of the genre. What's striking is the way that artists keep renewing the relevance of the format, which hasn't changed much, in mechanical terms, for well over a century. Just within the last month or so there have been accomplished new releases not only from Mr. Taborn -- ''Avenging Angel'' doubles as the name of his ECM debut -- but also Gonzalo Rubalcaba and Larry Goldings, pianists of wildly different temperament. These and a few other recent albums share an understanding of jazz's far-reaching solo-piano tradition. The diversity among them nudges that territory still further. 
The dual objective of a solitary jazz pianist has always been entertainment and enlightenment; it's the relationship between the two that has shifted over the years. Any pianist approaching the task today has to begin by deciding where to come down on the issue, since precursors lurk at every point along the spectrum. The most compelling solo jazz piano music has a way of blurring the lines, valorizing technical astonishments mainly as a means to an end, while delivering less tangible, more mysterious rewards.
At the turn of the last century, when Scott Joplin published ''Maple Leaf Rag,'' enjoyment naturally led the agenda. Jazz history has since claimed the song as a bedrock text; it leads off both the ''The Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz,'' compiled in 1973, and ''Jazz: The Smithsonian Anthology,'' issued this year. (Both compilations feature multiple versions, first as intended by Joplin and then as interpreted by jazz musicians.) A genuine sensation at a time when sheet-music sales provided the metric for success, ''Maple Leaf Rag'' probably won some of its admirers firsthand, so to speak, as they grappled with the canny arpeggios juddering through the song.
Improvisation became more of a priority with the advent of the stride style, which featured a steady left-hand chug to mask the absence of accompaniment. Among the early stride heroes, starting in the 1920s, were James P. Johnson and Fats Waller. The following decade brought solo pianism ranging from the terse economy of Teddy Wilson to the sparkling fullness of Earl Hines. And then there was Art Tatum, a solo pianist of such spectacular authority that many would argue he has yet to be surpassed.
Tatum drew on so much music, from stride to classical, that he gave the impression of endless possibility at the piano. He also mastered the feeling of surprise. His playing was as much about discovery as dexterity. But his legend has coalesced around the issue of technique, sometimes to the point of fetishization. A few years ago a company called Zenph Sound Innovations staged an unmanned performance of his album ''Piano Starts Here,'' using proprietary technology and a Yamaha Disklavier. (A CD was later issued under his name, with the subtitle ''Live at the Shrine,'' which is accurate only to a point.)
The evolution of modern jazz put a premium on cooperative rhythm-section interplay, making the self-contained world of solo piano seem a bit like a noble antiquity. Bebop in particular produced more than one generation of players with a powerful right hand and a subordinate left hand: the piano-playing equivalent of a fiddler crab. And yet there continued to be those who understood solo playing as its own separate discipline, artists like Erroll Garner, Jaki Byard and Dave McKenna. The great oblique modernist Thelonious Monk did some strong, distilled work in the format, notably on ''Alone in San Francisco,'' recorded in 1959 and reissued by Concord last month.
The first word in that album title crops up often in modern jazz's solo-piano literature, almost like an existential cry. Ray Bryant, who died last month at 79, released his first solo album, ''Alone with the Blues,'' in 1958. A decade later Bill Evans named his first true solo album ''Alone,'' and any hint of vulnerability in the title was probably genuine. He was known to have had steep trepidation about solo playing, with its unforgiving clarity and lack of interplay. (His previous solo effort, ''Conversations With Myself,'' famously hedged the issue by featuring three piano tracks, overdubbed.)
Evans made a sequel, ''Alone Again,'' in 1975, the same year that ''Alone, Again'' was released by his steelier contemporary Paul Bley. And if solo playing elicited anxiety for a pianist like Evans, it has been nothing but liberating for Mr. Bley, who is now 78 and has a body of highly regarded solo albums behind him. Some of these -- like his 2007 ECM album ''Solo in Mondsee'' -- revolve around blank-canvas improvisation, underscoring the appeal of the format to pianists of avant-garde temperament. Cecil Taylor, the free-jazz paragon, has been a lionized solo pianist for most of his long career. But the imperative of exploration doesn't stop with free improvisers; it has become a necessary subtext even for a solo pianist engaging with songs.
The French pianist Martial Solal, now in his 80s, is known for pairing Tatumesque virtuosity with a wryly digressive approach to melody. Last year Geri Allen released an album of gorgeous, rippling originals inspired by the pianism of Mr. Taylor, Herbie Hancock and McCoy Tyner.
This spring two leading contemporary pianists released solo albums that treat songs like discrete excursions: ''Alone at the Vanguard'' (there's that word again), by Fred Hersch, on Palmetto; and ''Live in Marciac,'' by Brad Mehldau, on Nonesuch. ''Labyrinth,'' a new album from Denny Zeitlin, just out on Sunnyside, leaves a similar impression. It bears noting that these are all live recordings: jazz is a music of interaction even in its strictest form, and a lone pianist playing to an audience isn't, in the end, really alone.
Which may be one way to explain the predominance of Keith Jarrett in the solo field over the last 40 years. His 1975 ''Koln Concert,'' on ECM, is the best-selling solo-piano album of all time, and the cornerstone of a rarefied career. An improviser with the instincts of a conjurer, Mr. Jarrett often communicates inspired stoicism in his solo playing, even when he's flirting with sentiment. The presence of a worshipful audience helps his cause.
And the absence of that audience is palpable on ''The Melody at Night, With You'' (ECM), from 1999. Recorded in a home studio while Mr. Jarrett was convalescing from chronic fatigue syndrome, it's a dry, contemplative album, a plate of standards austerely and lovingly served. Its mood suggests deep seclusion: the ''With You'' in the title, a dedication to his wife at the time, is also an invitation to the listener, a key to entry.
A similar invitation is offered throughout ''In My Room'' (BFM), the solo-piano debut of Mr. Goldings, who's best known in jazz circles as a Hammond B-3 organist. The image and typography on the album's cover evoke the stylishly minimalist house aesthetic of ECM, and some of its originals, like ''Crawdaddy,'' bear the thumbprint of Mr. Jarrett. But Mr. Goldings, who has a steady gig with James Taylor, ultimately presents a calmly coherent style, inspired by pastoral notions of Americana: ''Beautiful Dreamer,'' ''Take Me Out to the Ballgame.'' The album's cloistered title comes from the Beach Boys song.
There's no such breeziness in ''Fe ... Faith,'' the first release on Mr. Rubalcaba's 5Passion label. It's an album of exquisite touch: Mr. Rubalcaba, who lives in South Florida, is a product of Cuba's elite musical conservatory, and his classical training has never left him. Beautifully recorded, it begins in a kind of cathedral stillness -- Mr. Rubalcaba didn't come by its title casually -- and slowly warms to its own premise. There are crisp, exploratory essays based on themes by John Coltrane, Dizzy Gillespie and Miles Davis with Bill Evans. There are silvery originals inspired by Cuban bata drumming, and by each of Mr. Rubalcaba's three children. The whole album gleams.
''Fe ... Faith'' might have even been the most startlingly good solo jazz piano album released this year, were it not for ''Avenging Angel.'' That album -- a clutch of compact interrogations, unpremeditated but structurally coherent -- reflects Mr. Taborn's galactically broad interests, along with his multifaceted technique. You might hear flashes of 20th-century classical music: Ligeti perhaps, or Messiaen. You might hear echoes of Mr. Jarrett and Mr. Bley (and ECM's founder-producer, Manfred Eicher). In the album's obsession with permutation, you might hear shades of electronic music.
Mr. Taborn has been a busy but discerning sideman over the last 15 years and a smart but seemingly reluctant headliner. His previous album, a technophile opus called ''Junk Magic'' (Thirsty Ear), was released back in 2004. ''Avenging Angel'' hardly captures the full scope of his personality, but as with ''Modernistic'' (Blue Note), Jason Moran's acclaimed solo foray from 2002, it does articulate a vision, a personal manifesto.
At the heart of Mr. Taborn's enterprise is a fascination with pure sound. The album is full of moments where a note hangs sharply in the air, and you hear the gathering overtones, the vibrations of the strings. This was even clearer at the Rubin, where Mr. Taborn began his concert in test mode, slowly confronting each new chord as an event. His performance never flagged, because he had so many angles of inquiry: at one point, hammering fast with both hands, he produced the loudest sound I've ever heard from an acoustic piano, and then abruptly pulled back, finessing a melody reminiscent of flower petals.
There was virtuosity but little ostentation in the playing, no hint of ingratiating an audience. Which is not new in itself. What's new is Mr. Taborn's particular approach, which has opened up yet another corridor in jazz's solo-piano wing, where the renovation never ends.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jazz piano soloists: top, Keith Jarrett, who has been predominant in the field for more than 40 years
right, Craig Taborn, who has a new release, ''Avenging Angel''
and, below right, Gonzalo Rubalcaba, whose new release is ''Fe Faith.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID REDFERN/GETTY IMAGES
BILL DOUTHART
 MARIO GARCIA JOYA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



96 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3008 words

HEADLINE: An African Adventure, and a Revelation

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso
TAKE an American student and an American teacher who have never been near Africa before, lead them on a crazed ''win a trip'' journey through five particularly wretched countries, and what do you get?
Well, a few mishaps. There was that angry mob in Mauritania -- who would have thought our cameras would upset people that much? And that bull elephant in Niger was equally inhospitable, although the giraffes seemed amiable as they approached to gawk at the strange white humans.
We encountered plenty of heartbreak, like the baby we met in Niger who was going blind from lack of vitamin A. In some places, we felt the gnawing disquiet of insecurity. The rise of banditry and a Qaeda network in West Africa forced us to take an armed escort across one particularly lawless stretch of ''highway.''
Yet my travel buddies and I also found something far more significant on our journey: hope. One of the best-kept secrets in the world today can be found in thatched-roof villages like the ones we passed through: Africa appears to be turning around. 
After a half-century of underperformance, Africa's economy is growing significantly faster than America's or Europe's. In the last decade, 6 of the 10 fastest growing economies in the world were in sub-Saharan Africa, and, as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton noted in a recent speech in Ethiopia, that proportion is expected to rise even higher in the next five years. The global economy has turned upside down: Europe risks imploding, while much of Africa is booming.
This was the fifth ''win-a-trip contest,'' in which I take a student with me on a reporting trip to the developing world. This year I also chose someone from the over-60 crowd. The student winner was Saumya Dave, a medical student from Atlanta, and the older winner was Noreen Connolly, a 66-year-old teacher from a Catholic school in Newark. Neither had ever been to Africa, and they proved wonderful travel companions, cheery even when I explained why not to leave food on a bedside table in a hotel (I once awoke to gaze into the eyes of three rats) or when Saumya came down with a fever that we feared might be malaria (it wasn't). There was only one experience that my winners balked at: a villager in Burkina Faso asked for Saumya's hand in marriage.
Our odyssey began in mid-June. Accompanied by an Atlanta photographer and videographer, Thomas Nybo, and armed with everything from satellite phones to mosquito bed nets -- all jammed into tiny bags so we wouldn't have to check luggage -- we flew from New York to Casablanca, Morocco.
Morocco is a window into one of the most striking trends in Africa: democratization. The number of electoral democracies in Africa has risen to 18 from 4 in the last decade, according to Freedom House, a nonprofit human rights organization based in Washington. Even in a country like Morocco, which is still a repressive monarchy, easing has occurred. It has freed some political prisoners, moved to strengthen its Parliament a bit and even established a truth and reconciliation commission.
This is how Saumya Dave experienced Morocco:
''On that first morning, we met a reporter who introduced us to protesters who had been beaten and arrested.
''The protesters were young, outspoken, rebellious, headstrong -- and endearing. They answered all of our questions with ease, insisting that the efforts already made by the king were superficial, only for show. They were also fearless.
'''We get beaten in school and by our parents all the time,' Imad, one of the protesters said, a grin emerging. 'So being beaten by the police is nothing.'''
From Morocco we flew south to Nouakchott, the sleepy capital of Mauritania. I had been a bit disappointed that no pro-democracy protests in Morocco or Mauritania coincided with our visits -- but we did stumble across a melee in Nouakchott. Its target: us.
A Mauritanian host took us to the open fish market, and we strolled through. Suddenly a very large fishmonger grabbed Thomas, outraged by the camera dangling from his neck, and suddenly dozens of others were milling around us and shouting. One of our drivers tried to pull the man off Thomas, and then fists were flying and our driver was suddenly in a headlock. We tried to retreat, and the original troublemaker let go of Thomas long enough to pick up a huge wooden pallet and attempt to smash it down on our vehicles. Fortunately, a policeman rushed over and helped us escape, and we never figured out quite why this tumult had happened. A fluke, I think.
In Nouakchott, we joined forces with Shawn Baker, the Africa head of Helen Keller International, an aid group that does outstanding work on nutrition, blindness and related issues. Shawn, who came to Africa in the 1980s in the Peace Corps and never moved back, showed us one of the most cost-effective interventions to save lives -- food fortification.
These were Noreen Connolly's reactions that day:
''I never paid attention to the 'fortified with' words on the bag of my sandwich bread. So I was amazed to visit a flour mill in Mauritania and find that food fortification could have a huge impact on the health of a people.
''When people die of hunger-related causes, the problem is often not so much a lack of calories as a lack of micronutrients like iron and zinc. The biggest flour mill in Mauritania, supplying 45 percent of the country's flour, had just started adding iron, zinc, folic acid and vitamin B12 to its flour -- at an added cost of only 1 penny for six baguettes.
''American foreign aid money helped pay the start-up cost of fortification, and the mill will pay all continuing costs. We watched the machines add tiny quantities of the nutrients to sacks of flour -- and realized that this mill might end up saving more lives than a hospital.''
There has been a backlash in recent years against exaggerated claims about the impact of humanitarian aid. It's true that aid groups sometimes make the conquest of poverty seem a simpler and more certain endeavor than it is. It's also true that because of initiatives like food fortification -- and vaccinations and vitamin A supplementation and many others -- child mortality is tumbling in the developing world. In 1990, 12.4 million children died annually before age 5, according to the World Health Organization. By 2009, despite a significantly larger population, the toll had dropped to 8.1 million, the W.H.O. says.
So, yes, foreign aid has myriad problems, and global poverty is far too persistent -- but four million lives saved a year is an extraordinary achievement. And the Obama administration deserves real credit for its Feed the Future aid initiative. This isn't sexy or well known, but it bolsters African agriculture and nutrition as a cheap and effective way to chip away at global poverty and disease.
With Shawn, we drove south across the Mauritanian desert to Senegal, and then flew the following day to Niger -- one of the poorest and most forlorn countries in the world. In the remote town of Dogon Doutchi, near the Nigerian border, we saw with heartbreaking clarity what doctors call severe acute malnutrition.
A 2-year-old child, Alou Muhammad, was lying nearly comatose on a cot in the local hospital, his ribs protruding, receiving fluid from an IV drip. Alou's left eye had Bitot's spots -- signs of vitamin A deficiency that lead to blindness. At least 250,000 children go blind each year for lack of vitamin A, according to the W.H.O., and half of them die within a year of going blind.
This was Saumya's report:
''The local hospital was unlike anything I had ever seen. No hand sanitizer dispenser. No faces covered with scrub masks. No supply closet. No physicians streaming down the hallway in stark white coats.
''Alou was in pain, screaming 'Mama!' between sobs. I have seen malnourished children, but this was the first time I could count each rib.''
Alou's family told us that Alou had contracted measles and gone downhill from there. Yet there was also a silver lining: this was the first measles case that the head doctor had seen since arriving at the hospital seven months earlier -- and Alou actually came from across the border in Nigeria.
Children in Niger now routinely are vaccinated for measles, and also get vitamin A drops to prevent blindness and death. So even though Niger is one of the world's poorest countries, it has figured out how to deliver these services to its citizens -- while Nigeria, incomparably richer, still allows children like Alou to catch measles and then compels them to receive charity in Niger.
''If Niger can make progress, anybody can,'' Shawn told us as we huddled around Alou's bed. ''When I started here in 1985 there were measles outbreaks every year, and some years they would just massacre kids. But that head doctor has been here seven months, and this is the first case she has seen.''
When I first backpacked through West Africa as a law student in 1982, what I found most wrenching were the ubiquitous blind beggars, victims of a disease called river blindness, spread by the bites of black flies. The flies carry parasites that grow into worms whose offspring eat away at the optic nerve and cause blindness, debilitating itching and excruciating pain.
''This was more painful than childbirth,'' Fatouma Oumarou, a 70-year-old woman who had gone blind from the ailment, told us when we visited her village. At the peak of the disease, she recalled, much of the land in the area was left fallow because farmers did not dare work the area. In a nearby village, Moli, in a wildlife refuge, people told us that lions had killed a 15-year-old in the fields, but added, ''We are more afraid of the black flies than of the lions.''
Yet these days river blindness is gone from this region, thanks partly to heroic work by Jimmy Carter, and to vast contributions of medicine by Merck. I asked villagers if they had ever heard of Jimmy Carter, and they shook their heads doubtfully -- but his post-presidency work on global health had transformed their lives.
AIDS still exacts a huge toll on Africa -- an additional 1.8 million Africans became infected with H.I.V. in 2009, the last year for which a figure is available -- but we saw progress. In Burkina Faso, we visited women who during labor received anti-retrovirals that significantly reduced the risk of mother-to-child transmission. It's a cheap, simple intervention that avoids the need for lifelong medication for the child.
''There is unprecedented progress in global health,'' Michel Kazatchkine, executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, told me. ''Things that we would have seen as a dream in 2001 now are achievable objectives. A world of almost no malaria deaths. A world with almost no mother-to-child transmission of H.I.V.''
Partly because Noreen is a teacher, we often stopped in villages and asked about education. Often we ran into children who didn't go to school at all. But that's becoming rare, and girls in particular are more likely to attend school now than a decade ago. The United Nations says that primary school enrollment in sub-Saharan Africa has increased five times as quickly since 1999 as it did in the previous decade.
We also asked whether the schools really functioned -- it's common in poor countries for a school building to exist, but for teachers not to show up. We encountered some of that.
We saw many reminders that technology was transforming lives. A generation ago, many in the countryside had to collect water from mud puddles, while now there are covered wells with clean water.
In a few places we saw solar panels used to power electric lights. Roads are improving, and motorcycles and trucks are more common. One result is that when a mother is in difficult or life-threatening labor, she can now sometimes be taken to a hospital in the back of a pickup truck instead of rolled there in a wheelbarrow.
The grandest new technology is the cellphone. ''More than 100 people here have cellphones,'' one woman told us proudly in her village in Burkina Faso. ''There are too many to count.'' We asked how many toilets the village had, and she explained that not a single home had yet installed an outhouse.
Why would people prioritize cellphones over toilets? With cellphones, families can find out what market town offers the best price for their goods, or where fertilizer is cheapest. They can save money or transfer it, for cellphones are becoming the banking system for the poor. They can find out where there are jobs, or if contraceptives are finally in stock at the clinic a half-day's hike away. The villagers were equally intrigued that we thought toilets so crucial, and one explained, ''It's just easier to go in the fields.''
Family planning remains a huge challenge. Only 23 percent of women in sub-Saharan Africa use contraceptives, and we talked to some women who had never even heard of family planning.
''I don't want any more babies,'' Hawa Samaila told us in one village in Niger. ''If I can get something to stop getting pregnant, I'd like that.'' She had had 12 babies, of whom 6 had died. If African women (who now average more than five children each) had only 2.7 births on average (the rate now in India), Africa would benefit enormously.
Yet family planning remains under-financed, and in a clinic we visited in Mauritania the head nurse, Ould Yatma, said that to receive contraceptives a woman must prove that her husband has consented. ''She must bring her husband, or at least bring her husband's ID card to prove that he agrees.''
Saumya talked to the women about that and this is what she found out:
''While there are women unable to receive contraceptives without a husband's consent, there are also women educating one another. In Niger, one woman told me that girls are enrolled in literacy classes -- which become secure havens for them to discuss issues without men present. One of those topics: family planning.
''Often I met women who were empowered in other ways. In one village, a woman taught Noreen and me how to grind millet, using a huge stick in an oversize mortar. She made it seem effortless and fluid, for women sometimes spend six hours a day grinding grain into flour.
''Then Noreen and I tried. Lift, smash, lift, smash. Within minutes, we were exhausted, our biceps sore. This woman's 10-year-old daughter outshone us both.
''Before I traveled through these countries, my image of an African woman was of a helpless, downtrodden creature who could do little on her own. I am happy to be proved wrong.''
Another obstacle that we encountered firsthand was corruption and suffocating bureaucracy. As we crossed the Mauritania-Senegal border on a ferry, we saw trucks that had been waiting for a month to cross -- because of a dispute between government officials on each side. At the Niger-Burkina Faso border, we again saw huge lineups of trucks waiting for customs inspections (which, translated into the local patois, often means payments to officials to avoid an inspection).
African leaders need to promote trade, simplify border crossings, reduce the opportunities for graft and encourage home-grown private business. Niger should be ashamed that its thicket of regulatory requirements make it one of the worst countries in the world in which to do business, according to the World Bank's terrific Doing Business series. (Niger ranks 173rd out of 183 countries in the 2011 report.)
Another huge burden that we witnessed along much of our journey: civil conflict and insecurity. One of the most robust franchises of Al Qaeda is one we don't hear much about in America, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. It has created a sanctuary for itself in northern Mali -- that's one reason we didn't try to visit Timbuktu, which is in that region. This branch of Al Qaeda has kidnapped foreigners, apparently for ransom at least as much as for ideological reasons, in a belt from Mauritania to Niger.
In January two Frenchmen were abducted from a bar in the Niger capital, Niamey. A rescue operation led to a firefight in which both men were killed. We heard accounts that Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb was fortifying its army with weapons smuggled from looted Libyan armories.
The group also profits by inviting in cocaine smugglers who fly drugs in from South America and then move them on to Europe.
Noreen reported on the question of terrorism and democracy:
''In Mauritania, we met a pro-democracy writer and activist, Abderrahmane Weddady, who made the case that the autocratic Mauritanian government manipulated American fears of terrorists. The United States supports Mauritania partly because its military fights Al Qaeda -- but Mr. Weddady argues that it is the Mauritanian government's oppression, corruption and economic incompetence that actually drive people to Al Qaeda.
''The United States plays into the hands of Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb when it supports undemocratic governments like his own, he said. 'The real stability is democracy,' Mr. Weddady told us. And yes, it was a little odd to be lectured about the transformative power of democracy -- by a Mauritanian.''
We had been told in advance that the first stretch of road after we crossed into Burkina Faso might be risky even in daytime -- more from banditry than from Al Qaeda -- so we arranged a military escort. ''There shouldn't be a problem,'' added the person who arranged the armed escorts. ''But if there is, get your heads down. They feel that their job is to shoot.''
That's the kind of Africa story you normally hear -- a dash of guns and chaos -- and it's real, but also incomplete. As my win-a-trip winners found on this journey, the poverty is heartbreaking and the insecurity ominous. But the giraffes and villagers alike are hugely welcoming, and the progress is now effervescent. The backdrop is a continent that is chipping away at poverty and disease, while doing a better job of educating its young. Africa seems likely to become a much more important part of the global economy in the 21st century -- a place to admire, not to pity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BURKINA FASO: June 23, 2011. A mother in the eastern part of the country who is benefiting from a community garden program.(SR1)
BURKINA FASO: June 23, 2011. Nicholas D. Kristof showed Noreen Connolly, right, and Saumya Dave how to blog via satellite phone from anywhere.
NIGER: June 22, 2011. Technological advances: a hut had solar panels to power the light. (SR6)
MAURITANIA: June 17, 2011. A street in Nouakchott, the capital. The country has begun fortifying food with nutrients like iron, zinc, folic acid and vitamin B12, a cost-effective way to save lives.
BURKINA FASO: June 23, 2011. A child cranked the wheel of a well supplying clean water in the village of Zoenatenga. (SR6-SR7)
 NIGER: June 19, 2011. Alou Muhammad, 2, was malnourished and had a vitamin A deficiency. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS NYBO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(SR7) MAPS (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); MALARIA (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (96%); BURKINA FASO (96%); MAURITANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGER (94%); EUROPE (92%); MOROCCO (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



97 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Tackling Pension Crisis Is a Herculean Task

BYLINE: By DAVID GREISING. 
dgreising@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
David Greising writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
When it comes to fiscal matters, Greece's reputation is in ruins. With its self-inflicted financial calamity, the country is mainly an object of sympathy or scorn.
But something about Illinois' huge fiscal woes conjures references to Greek myths and philosophy. As I spent the week, Diogenes-like, in search of an honest plan for dealing with the state's problems, one expert suggested Homer. 
Another referred to Aristotle. Finally, there was mention of a deus ex machina: The Greek idea that, when the machina really hits the fan, a resolution will suddenly appear, godlike, from the machinery of everyday life.
Illinois politicians seem oblivious to all of this. And while no heaven-sent solution has emerged, at least some new plays are getting written.
Two veteran stars of financial dramas past -- Paul A. Volcker and Richard Ravitch --appointed themselves to head a blue-ribbon commission. They will study the troubles in five states and emerge with proposals that could help solve those states' epic fiscal messes.
Mr. Volcker, when he was Federal Reserve chairman during the early 1980s, helped solve stagflation by imposing staggeringly high interest rates. Mr. Ravitch, the recent lieutenant governor of New York, has handled serial crises beginning with New York City's insolvency during the 1970s.
Both are creative problem solvers, and in a visit to Chicago, Mr. Ravitch made it clear why Illinois needs to be one of his group's case studies. ''They've got one of the biggest problems and haven't begun to solve it,'' he said at a Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago conference on June 23.
Some state courts are stepping in, too. In the face of arguments that state laws and constitutions prohibit states from shirking their pension obligations, courts in Minnesota and Colorado last week said, essentially, that's not right. The state ruling may clear the way for states to weigh their pension obligations against other demands on their resources, the courts ruled. Despite contractual obligations to pensioners, states could be allowed to take into account their competing duty to educate children and build safe roads.
All this is happening against a political backdrop in which conservatives, both in Congress and in the nascent presidential campaign, have begun suggesting a federal approach that could enable states to declare bankruptcy as a radical way to duck their promises to pensioners and bond holders.
Fortunately, there are less radical, and more constitutionally sound, approaches. One of the most promising comes from James Spiotto, a Chicago bankruptcy lawyer.
Mr. Spiotto is turning heads among pension experts with a novel idea designed to hurdle legal barriers that have made pension inaction a way of life nationwide. He proposes a Pension Finance Authority with quasi-judicial powers to impose its solutions if politicians, union leaders and other interested parties cannot come to terms.
Once created by state legislatures and courts, the authority would operate outside a state's political machinery. It would hear from all parties, and perhaps might include some major stake holders, like union leaders, pension-fund managers, business leaders and even politicians.
The authority would weigh the interests of pensioners, state workers, businesses and taxpayers. It would then rule on such matters as whether the state was adequately contributing to current employees' pensions.
More crucially, the authority would rule on the stasis-inducing dilemma of whether financing current programs like education and social welfare was more important than catching up on pension obligations that have ballooned to more than $3.5 trillion nationwide. Illinois alone has paid only 54 percent of what it owes to state pension funds, a shortfall of more than $85 billion.
Tracy Gordon, a pension expert at the Brookings Institution, said states might create a Pension Finance Authority for the same reason Ulysses had himself lashed to his ship's mast: to force a discipline that he couldn't otherwise muster and help Ulysses make certain he wouldn't listen to the Sirens and steer his ship toward disaster.
Mr. Spiotto invokes Greece's foremost philosopher. ''Aristotle said virtue is nothing in excess,'' he said. A pension authority would seek to treat all parties fairly while exercising a will that political bodies lack.
Aristotle also said that tragedy makes good drama because it evokes both pity and fear in the audience. We're headed for both if creative solutions -- from Mr. Spiotto, Mr. Ravitch, Mr. Volcker or some other actor -- don't lead to action soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POLITICS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); CASE STUDIES (67%); BONDS (66%); LAWYERS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



98 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Free to Say, 'I Do,' but Where?

BYLINE: By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI; Christine Haughney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NOT too long after watching the New York State Senate pass the marriage-equality bill on television, Bill White turned to his longtime partner, Bryan Eure, and asked, ''Want to have a wedding?''
His answer: ''Yes, but ... ''
There were a few conditions, including that the celebration be a ''masculine'' affair. The important part was the yes. By the time the evening was over, Mr. White, the former president of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, had made two calls. One was to V. Gene Robinson, the bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New Hampshire, whom he asked to preside over the couple's nuptials, at St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church on Sept. 25. The other was to Julian Niccolini, an owner of the Four Seasons.
''It's a great restaurant, they have the best food, and I've spent a lot of time there in my professional career,'' Mr. White said about his choice of reception location.
If first comes love and then comes the law, the next step is finding the space. For thousands of gay and lesbian couples who have been waiting years for the legalization of same sex-marriage in New York, the jockeying for dates has already begun, with many looking to tie the knot in the fall, if not earlier. 
Already the Glasshouses, two event spaces in the Chelsea Arts Tower, has seen a 25 percent increase in inquiries from prospective new clients, most of them same-sex, and Wolffer Estate Vineyard in Sagaponack, N.Y., that is a popular site for weddings, had to turn away a number of same-sex couples looking for immediate dates. Sue Calden, the estate's event director, said that the winery still has availability on Saturdays starting in late October.
Lee Ellis, the event planner at the Southampton Inn, said that the inn already has four contracts out for couples who had started planning their weddings before the bill was passed. ''We've been swamped,'' said DeDe Gotthelf, the inn's owner.
Those who have their heart set on being married at the Plaza before the end of the year might want to look elsewhere. The hotel's event spaces are booked on Saturday nights through the rest of the year, although some Fridays and a few Sundays remain available.
The heightened demand for wedding locations is going to complicate the plans of many heterosexual couples in the coming months as well. ''New York is going to become the Las Vegas of gay marriage,'' said Grayson Handy, creative director of Prudence Designs and Events. This week, Mr. Handy booked his first lesbian wedding, a fete for 80 on Sept. 10 at a loft in the West Village.
For hotels and other spaces that have been struggling through the recession, the passage of marriage equality is a business boon not to be missed.
''I spent the weekend figuring out what we could do,'' said Jennifer Blumin, president of the Skylight Group, a company that operates three event spaces in Manhattan and Brooklyn. On Monday, she sent an e-mail blast to 3,000 industry contacts, offering a 20 percent discount on all wedding bookings through the end of the year. The next day she received about 40 calls, many of them from same-sex couples or planners representing them, double the normal volume.
Meanwhile, the W Hotels of New York unrolled a ''Right to Unite'' package, which includes car service to city hall, champagne, cake and a party with a D.J. for 200 guests at the W New York-Downtown's Living Room Bar and Terrace on July 25, the first day that same-sex couples will be able to legally marry in the state. The offer has yielded several inquiries, a representative said.
Deals aside, most couples are concerned with the logistics of planning a wedding on such short notice. In addition to calling a number of spaces, including the New York Botanical Garden and the Bear Mountain Inn, to check on availability, Vincent Iaropoli, a media supervisor for an advertising company, spent time this week figuring out the earliest date that his friends and family could travel to New York for his wedding to Joshua Wikum, a Broadway ticket broker. ''We would love to have a fall wedding,'' said Mr. Iaropoli, who has been living with Mr. Wikum for seven years.
The average engagement in this country is 18 months, said Colin Cowie, a popular event designer. Sure, a year and a half provides a lot of time to nail down the details, but Shawn Rabideau, an event planner who appeared on the Bravo reality show ''Bethenny Getting Married?'' said that he could organize a wedding in as little as four weeks (although he recommends six months). ''There's so much hype in the industry of how far out in advance you need to do it,'' said the caterer Peter Callahan, who added that he has been fielding calls from same-sex couples looking to wed in the coming months. ''We are telling people it is very doable.''
For Paul Vinci, an insurance agent, and Keith Lisser, a fashion designer, who became engaged via the phone after the bill passed, marrying quickly after waiting many years to do so in New York is as much a political statement as it is a personal one. ''It's important that people step forward and get married so that all the people who stuck their necks out can see that it was really worth it,'' Mr. Lisser said. The couple have decided to exchange vows in September in the Hamptons, with a tented reception featuring a sit-down dinner and a D.J.
For Malcolm Harris, planning begins with the ''frock.'' Mr. Harris, a women's evening-wear designer based in New York, proposed to his fiance, K. Tyson Perez, over Twitter on June 24. Mr. Harris said he was traveling to Paris to meet with the designer Olivier Theyskens. ''It's going to be traditional on the top, a big haute couture design at the bottom.'' Mr. Harris said that, once he knew when his attire would be completed, he could decide on a date.
Susan Sampliner, company manager for the Broadway show ''Wicked,'' is hoping for a September wedding for her and her fiancee, Emily Grishman. ''We've got the cake and rabbi,'' Ms. Sampliner said of their wedding plans, although other details, including the location, are still up for debate. (Ms. Sampliner prefers a beach wedding in East Hampton; Ms. Grishman, a music copyist, wants a ceremony at an event space in the city.)
Of course, not everyone is sprinting to the altar. Chris Hughes, a founder of Facebook and executive director of Jumo, and Sean Eldridge, the political director of Freedom to Marry, are sticking to their wedding date next June. No doubt the weekend of lavish festivities, including a rehearsal dinner at Per Se, an intimate wedding at the couple's home in Garrison, N.Y., and a reception that evening at Cipriani Wall Street -- orchestrated by Bryan Rafanelli, who also planned Chelsea Clinton's wedding -- would have been hard to switch. ''It's a once-in-a-lifetime thing,'' said Mr. Hughes, who proposed to Mr. Eldridge on bended knee while on vacation in Thailand last New Year's Eve.
A lifetime is how long many feel they've waited for this day to arrive.
''We didn't want to get married in another state,'' Mr. White, who runs the Constellations Group, a strategic business development firm, said of his nuptials to Mr. Eure, a commercial insurance broker. ''We said we'd wait for New York.''
In addition to the ceremony at St. Bartholomew's and black-tie dinner for 300 at the Four Seasons, the celebrations are to include a civil ceremony presided over by Don Imus and a cocktail party in Georgette Mosbacher's home on the Upper East Side on the eve of the wedding. ''This is the fun part,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLANS: Bryan Eure, left, Julian Niccolini and Bill White at the Four Seasons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
DETAILS, DETAILS: At top, Marc Kushner, left, and Chris Barley studying their options at Skylight West with Jennifer Blumin, president of the Skylight Group. Above, Chris Hughes, left, and Sean Eldridge at their apartment in SoHo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); RELIGION (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011



99 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Terror of Teenage Life

BYLINE: By STEPHEN BURT. 
Stephen Burt's most recent book is ''Close Calls With Nonsense: Reading New Poetry.'' He teaches at Harvard.

 BODY:
THE RAISING
By Laura Kasischke
461 pp. Harper Perennial. Paper, $14.99.
SPACE, IN CHAINS
By Laura Kasischke
113 pp. Copper Canyon Press. Paper, $16.
If and when you go away to college you can become somebody else; you can kill off your old self and be reborn. So generations of young people have believed. But once they have done it -- ditching provincial tastes and hometown boyfriends for a sorority, a fraternity or an undergraduate bohemia -- they may trade one conformity for another; they may feel haunted by their former lives. No wonder teenage life, on and off campus, seems to fit stories of vampires, ghosts, the undead. Laura Kasischke is hardly the first to use such figures (as fans of ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer'' know) but with her new novel, ''The Raising,'' she pursues them almost perfectly. Almost a supernatural thriller, almost a campus satire and almost but not quite a coming-of-age tale, ''The Raising'' is also the best of Kasischke's eight novels, the one with the broadest canvas, the most observation, its large cast arranged with a scary economy of detail. 
Most of ''The Raising'' takes place on a college campus -- it could be the University of Michigan, where Kasischke (who studied there) now teaches. Nicole Werner was the beauty as well as the brain of her small town; at college, she joined Omega Theta Tau, the rich, prestigious, ''keep-your-record-clean sorority,'' whose girls are supposedly all virgins. She also began dating Craig Clements-Rabbitt, a morose stoner with bad grades who felt even more out of place in the friendly Midwest than he did in his preppie New Hampshire hometown. At the end of their freshman year, Nicole died in a car crash; Craig was driving, and nearly the whole campus blames him.
''The Raising'' is the story, or mystery, of Nicole's ghost, pursued over Craig's sophomore year. Mira Polson teaches a seminar on ''Death, Dying and the Undead''; Craig's roommate Perry, who grew up inseparable from Nicole, joins Mira's class because he has been seeing apparitions of his dead friend. Mira studies the dead because her mother died young; while she tries to write a sequel to her book about funeral customs, her stay-at-home husband looks after their 2-year-old twins, who are (like the sorority girls) nearly indistinguishable, and who (like the sorority girls) seem to communicate only in private, in ways no one else understands. Shelly Lockes, who works at the university, witnessed Nicole's highway accident, and the reports do not match what she saw. Pretty, flighty, untrustworthy Josie, an OTT sister who becomes Shelly's assistant, may know why Nicole's real story remains untold.
Kasischke set previous novels in high schools and summer camps (one, ''The Life Before Her Eyes,'' became a movie starring Uma Thurman). She understands the awkwardness, and the low-grade terror, of teenage life, when we want so much for big questions to have right answers, but no one we trust ever seems to know what they are. Kasischke's self-hating collegians (Craig most of all) can become unpleasant companions, but she does not make us stay with them all the way through. Instead, her novel gradually shifts its center from Craig to Mira and Shelly, adults unfortunate enough to depend for their lives and careers on what teenagers do and say.
''The Raising'' holds tight to its symbols (sexy virgins, corpses, ghosts). Even a roll of Lifesavers has implications, and when Craig spots ''The Nicole Werner Memorial Cherry Orchard,'' OTT may as well stand for Over the Top. Yet Kasischke remains aware that she works in familiar traditions: her scenes play knowingly with the expectations (the helpless professor seduced by a student, the super-secret women-only ritual) that her precedents raise, from ''Buffy'' to Euripides' ''Bacchae.'' (As in Euripides, power comes from sexuality, which neither the men, nor most of the women, control.) Sentence by sentence Kasischke writes crisply, attentively, without compromising her fast pace. When Craig and Nicole take a walk in the snow, ''Craig held onto her hand, but between his insulated ski glove and her fat wool mitten, he might as well have been holding anything -- the university mascot's paw, a tree branch swathed in bandages. She said something into the scarf, but he couldn't hear it.''
As well constructed as ''The Raising'' is, the novel can seem, well, constructed: loose ends tied together, with a broad audience (one that it should find) in mind. To watch Kasischke truly reckon with the messiness of death and life, with the ways they can demolish any plan we ever devise, we have to go to her poetry. Her new collection, ''Space, in Chains,'' is neither the most elegant nor the most consistent of her eight books of poems, but it might be the most ambitious -- and the most disturbing, as it strives to comprehend first and last things. Her earlier books (especially the flawless ''Fire & Flower'') often tracked her experience as a teenager or as a mother, with her stepdaughter and now-teenage son. The Kasischke of ''Space, in Chains'' is an adult daughter, revisiting the deaths of her parents and thinking about her own limited span.
Looking backward and forward within her life, Kasischke finds a set of identities, most of them cast off or used up. She sees herself in ''the mirror breathing above the sink,'' in ''the child at the rummage sale -- / more souvenirs than memories,'' and in the wayward adolescent among the ''Empty / plastic cups after the party on the beach.'' Her poems, some in blocks of prose, some strewn with rhyme, strive for patterns as adults strive for responsibility; sometimes they fall apart instead, producing the breakneck lists of noun phrases that (along with irregular rhymes) are her formal trademarks. These lists can imply panic or exhilaration or cumulative, daily exasperation. ''At the Public Pool'' envisions ''A strange blue porcelain sheet. / A naked lake, transparent as a need,'' and then ''The Hall of Stuff We Bought at the Mall. The plugged-up fountain at the center / of the Museum of Crap That Couldn't Last / has flooded it all.''
As much as she gathers odd images from her own memory, Kasischke knows how she, too, is typical. She knows how even the strangest lives follow simple patterns -- we are born, we grow up, we nurture or fail to nurture children, we do our work or fail to do it, we die. ''The Photograph Album in the Junk Shop'' agrees:
We are all the same, it claims. This forgotten couple kissing before the Christmas tree, in a year they will be holding the Christ child between them, whose name they wish us to believe is Jim.
Beside the child as Christ (each child is a type of Christ), Kasischke arrays less hopeful adults: Lazarus as a florist, delivering unwelcome messages, afraid to sleep; car passengers in a hospital parking lot; her father envisioned posthumously ''in the massive shadows / of the columns / of the Museum of Griefs-to-Come.'' A woman who ''sprawls out on a beach with a book,'' a ''man hammering on the roof all afternoon'' and all the other people in her poems are building ''a bridge from here to there,'' but ''it is the kind of bridge that blows away . . . Not built to weather much at all . . . Not even health. Not even peace.''
Kasischke's best lines are catchy as pop songs are catchy: you find yourself repeating them before you know how they work, or what they mean. ''See, cold spy for time, who needs you now?'' You can accuse her of melodrama, of playing to the gallery, but you should not deny her fearsome honesty, nor the homely weirdness of her images. A poem about her own death imagines ''the last hour waiting patiently on a tray . . . the spoon slipping quietly into the beautiful soup.'' No poet has tried so hard to cut through suburban American illusion while respecting the lives, young and old, that it nurtures or saves. No poet has joined the chasm of ontological despair to the pathos of household frustration so well as Kasischke at her best, and she is -- though eerie, though willing to let threads dangle, though looser in the poems' weave than she has been -- at her best often with ''Space, in Chains.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF LAURA KASISCHKE BY PATRICE NORMAND/OPALE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: THETA TAU (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Raising, The (Book); Space, in Chains (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011



100 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: New York and the Planes

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Thomas L. Friedman is off today.

 BODY:
HERE are a few lines written about New York in 1948, when the city was booming, cabs were hard to get and the best tables even harder:
''A single flight of planes no bigger than a wedge of geese can quickly end this island fantasy, burn the towers, crumble the bridges, turn the underground passages into lethal chambers. The intimation of mortality is part of New York now: in the sound of jets overhead, in the black headlines of the latest edition.''
Rereading E.B. White's remarkable little essay, ''Here is New York,'' written in a sweltering New York hotel room, I was stopped by those two sentences, prescient to the tune of some 53 years. Had I not noticed them before because on a previous reading the 9/11 attacks had not yet happened? Or was there some other reason? 
It's treacherous to reread. A once favorite work can seem with time like juvenile rubbish -- Lawrence Durrell's ''Alexandria Quartet'' comes to mind. Or it can retain all its wondrousness while seeming quite another -- Malcolm Lowry's ''Under the Volcano'' is a different novel every time I read it. Or, as in the case of White's musings on New York, it can yield some overlooked detail that sets the nerve ends tingling.
White went on to write that, in the annihilation stakes, New York, through its urban concentration, ''has a certain clear priority.'' Or as he put it: ''In the mind of whatever perverted dreamer might loose the lightning, New York must hold a steady, irresistible charm.''
No doubt it was nuclear Armageddon he had chiefly in mind. But his words captured some deep truth. Ten years ago. it was the perverted dreamers of Al Qaeda who loosed the lightning. New York shuddered; the world changed.
Perhaps it's the skies of a 9/11 blue, perhaps it's the passage of a decade, perhaps it's the thought of all the articles and reflections and memorial services now just weeks away, I can't help seeing the city as a kaleidoscope of now and then, jagged images of molten steel and lost ones alternating with scenes of careless summer laughter.
New York has won again. It has come back. America has not. That's the kernel these images secrete.
First the city: magnet of talent, storehouse of stoicism, champion of churn, New York has prevailed. I'm glad all is not neat and tidy for the anniversary down at the World Trade Center site and that the Freedom Tower is incomplete. This is not a cherry-on-the-cake kind of city. What inspires is not a 1,776-feet tower in the making, but all the litigiousness and crazy aspirations of a New York minute.
The city has asserted its ability to come together. The ''homeland,'' awful post-9/11 neologism, has not. America struggles still to rediscover its bearings and sense of direction. The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with their more than 6,000 U.S. dead, still take their toll. The ''banksters,'' salvaged by tax dollars, get richer. Ordinary folk get poorer. Youth unemployment is at 24 percent. Corporations sit on their cash piles. Algorithms drive Americans to the news that comforts their prejudices and stokes their anger. No wonder ideological division has become so paralyzing in Washington.
One thing White loved in New York was its refusal to succumb -- to gravity or the impossible logistics of ushering millions onto and out of an island every day -- and the way a feeling of belonging to something unique and mighty seemed to inject the most diverse set of people ''with massive doses of a supplementary vitamin.''
There's a wider lesson for America, and particularly Washington, in that supplement.
There's also a lesson in White's extraordinary prescience. Amos Oz, the Israeli writer, has observed that ''sometimes the facts threaten the truth.'' Today the rat-tat-tat of partisan ''facts'' overwhelms. White found death from planes lurking in the very texture of 1948 New York by allowing, over time, the city to seep over him, by not being rushed, by making truth -- and not the next news cycle -- his muse.
He wrote as the headquarters of a new organization, the United Nations, was being built on the East River -- another ''spear that presses heaven hard.'' The construction led White to weigh the power of global fraternity against the menace of the planes: ''The city at last perfectly illustrates both the universal dilemma and the general solution, this riddle in steel and stone is at once the perfect target and the perfect demonstration of nonviolence, of racial brotherhood, this lofty target scraping the skies and meeting the destroying planes half-way, home of all people and all nations, capital of everything, housing the deliberations by which the planes are to be stayed and their errand forestalled.''
The planes-turned-missiles were not forever forestalled. But White's words, seeped in New York's vital spirit, should still be read at one of the services 10 weeks from now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



101 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2061 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: The Old, The Young and Medicare

 BODY:
What's in Medicare's future? A letter on Wednesday calling for a sharp cut in benefits and a ''sober dialogue'' between the generations drew more than 100 responses. This is a sampling.
THE LETTER
To the Editor:
The ''roar'' and ''popular political crusade'' that Frederick R. Lynch calls for in ''How AARP Can Get Its Groove Back'' (Op-Ed, June 24) appear to be only a slightly veiled call on the elderly to resist any and all significant cuts to Social Security and Medicare.
That might be possible with Social Security, but policy analysts have for years shown that a sustainable financial future for Medicare will require a sharp cut in benefits, and no less necessary for deficit reduction.
That need will of necessity be painful, but need not be disastrous: more money has never guaranteed good health care. 
Moreover, a continued rise in Medicare costs will have to be paid for by the children of the beneficiaries.
As someone who has reached the age of 80, I would hope that if there is any wisdom at all among my peer group, it will be to recognize that our duty is more to those coming after us than to ourselves. We have made it to old age, and if AARP can bring about a sober dialogue between the young and us about how best to allocate resources fairly while saving Medicare, that would not be a roar, but common civic sense.
DANIEL CALLAHAN Garrison, N.Y., June 24, 2011
The writer is president emeritus of the Hastings Center, a nonprofit bioethics research institute,and the author of ''Setting Limits: Medical Goals in an Aging Society.''
READERS REACT
Regarding Daniel Callahan's letter, it's a lot easier to talk about sacrificing benefits and paying higher fees when one is 80 and has been receiving Medicare benefits for 15 years than when one is 65 and has been paying into the system for over 40 years. Those of us who have not yet ''made it to old age'' would face disaster if the Republicans succeed in dismantling Medicare.
MYRNA A. GOTTLIEB East Brunswick, N.J., June 29, 2011
There are many obvious ways to reduce the costs of Medicare -- and of all medical care in this country. This 73-year-old simply cannot understand why the following simple steps are not taken:
Eliminate fee-for-service. Yes, Medicare is single payer, but it is still fee-for-service, with all the attendant incentives to do unnecessary tests and procedures.
Provide 24/7 urgent-care clinics, staffed by nurse practitioners, to cut down emergency room visits. My doctor tells me that if I have something like a urinary tract infection, which requires simple but immediate treatment, outside of her office hours I should go to an E.R. What sense does that make?
Accept that everyone is going to grow older and die. Everyone is going to need care, and only a handful will be able to afford to pay for it out of pocket. Whether death comes at 35 or at 100, it will probably involve a lot of expense in the last year of life. Accept it, plan for it, don't torment the very sick and very old with unnecessary procedures and hospitalizations, but don't abandon them. More palliative care, less intervention.
What's not to like?
JUDY AMORY New York, June 29, 2011
Daniel Callahan writes that ''policy analysts have for years'' argued that Medicare will ''require a sharp cut in benefits.'' Not all have done so, and those who have are wrong.
America already provides less medical coverage over all than other advanced nations do. The last thing we need is to reduce coverage now available. Our private care is the world's most expensive. Less Medicare would result in more unmet needs, and in higher costs for services that the private market picks up.
Health costs in general, not Medicare, are draining America's resources. This ''policy analyst'' has written for years that the need is to reform our uniquely inefficient health care delivery system. Cutting Medicare would be like fixing a leaky shingle to protect against a tsunami.
MAX J. SKIDMORE Overland Park, Kan., June 30, 2011
The writer, a professor of political science at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, is the author of books about Medicare and Social Security.
As a member of the AARP generation, I agree with Daniel Callahan. I speak to my peers, and we all come to the same conclusion: Do something! Adjust reimbursements to reflect ability to pay, and then re-evaluate the savings.
At a time when so many of our fellow citizens are making sacrifices, we, too, should be able to do something.
Yes, the benefits are wonderful. But those children and grandchildren we so love will pay the price. Is this an outcome we can live with?
We are a very strong lobby. We have a very loud voice. Let's use it, as Mr. Callahan says, for ''common civic sense.''
DORIS FENIG Floral Park, N.Y., June 29, 2011
I disagree with Daniel Callahan. I think that the economist Robert B. Reich expressed it best: ''Medicare isn't the problem. It is the solution.''
We do not have to reduce benefits or raise the age of eligibility to save Medicare. We need to expand and improve it so we have Medicare for all. This is what many other industrialized nations have done. They bring high-quality medical care to all their citizens at half the cost of what we spend.
It's a no-brainer. Expanding the pool of beneficiaries to include everyone and financing it with progressive taxes is the way to ''save'' Medicare. There is already a bill in Congress, H.R. 676, that accomplishes this. We need to pass it.
ELIZABETH R. ROSENTHAL Larchmont, N.Y., June 29, 2011
The writer is a dermatologist.
Daniel Callahan expresses a common thought: Cut Medicare benefits so our children will have Medicare benefits. But our children will have no benefits if we don't cut the overall rise in the cost of health care. Let's tackle the real -- and huge -- problem: Stop reimbursing on a fee-for-service basis, and start reimbursing for good outcomes.
We're offering to carry the piano stool when we talk about cutting Medicare benefits. We need to face up to the real task: moving the piano. That's what the new health care law does. Slowly, yes. But health care represents one-sixth of the American economy. Heavy lifting.
TERRY LOCHHEAD Canterbury, N.H., June 29, 2011
It is absurd to cut Medicare benefits before trying other changes to reduce medical care costs. For example, studies repeatedly show that physicians with an ownership stake in equipment like CT scans and M.R.I.'s and financial stakes in particular drugs overprescribe them.
A McKinsey study estimated that such distorting interests led to $8 billion in ''excess'' outlays in 2005.
With population growth and proliferation of equipment and physician ownership, such costs grow. Medigap plans do not do their assigned job of curbing use; they increase it.
Further, Medigap plans require an insurer other than Medicare's administrator to process claims a second time. That increases nonbenefit costs. If Medicare paid for most of covered charges, Medigap would become unnecessary, thereby reducing nonbenefit costs.
There are other cost-savings options. Reducing Medicare benefits is the last place to look for cost reductions.
MERTON BERNSTEIN Brewster, Mass., June 29, 2011
The writer, professor emeritus of law at Washington University, is a founding board member of the National Academy of Social Insurance.
I agree with Daniel Callahan that we need a dialogue between the generations about the costs of Medicare. Having recently experienced the death of my parents and having witnessed the great financial costs of their last years of life, I am grateful that Medicare was there to help our family. We alone could not have paid for the excellent care they received.
If we had sold our homes, cashed out our own retirement funds, and used all our spare income, we could not have paid for the care. It was simply too expensive.
Most people in their 20s and 30s have not yet experienced the physical decline of a parent and the medical costs of old age. Therefore, they may not realize that the payroll taxes that go into the Medicare program will help them care for their own parents. Without Medicare benefits, will these young people be able to help their parents pay for the care they need?
Medicare and Social Security are not just for the elderly. The programs also directly benefit anyone with an elderly person in the family. They benefit those who have elderly people in their community. In fact, they directly benefit us all.
I pay my payroll taxes with gratitude for the help and peace of mind they have already given me and my family. If the taxes need to be raised, so be it. And I denounce any plan to significantly change or eliminate Medicare.
JANET ELLINGSON Salt Lake City, June 29, 2011
Adding younger, healthier people to Medicare would go a long way to stabilizing it, because the younger participants would pay the same rates as the elderly but most of them would be healthier and would use the services less.
This seems to be a fix that few of the ''experts'' propose. You'd think they were looking for an excuse to get rid of Medicare, Social Security and all the other aspects of the social safety net.
We can start talking about cutting Medicare after cutting the military budget to a level proportionate to our share of the world's population.
KAREN SANDNESS Minneapolis, June 29, 2011
Until someone can explain to me how, according to the World Health Organization, 36 other countries have better health care, I do not want to talk about painful cuts to Medicare and/or Medicaid. Until that question is answered, it is far too early to talk about radical overhaul of these vital programs.
M. ADRIAN MATTOCKS Worcester, Mass., June 29, 2011
The writer is a postdoctoral fellow studying transplant immunology.
THE WRITER RESPONDS
While I appreciate that many Americans, like Myrna A. Gottlieb, want to keep Medicare intact, we need to face up to the financial realities. We now have about 46 million enrolled in the Medicare program, mainly the elderly. The projection is that their number will increase to 79 million by 2030. Medicare expenditures are now slightly more than $500 billion and are expected to double to $1 trillion in a decade.
The costs are high for many well-known reasons, led by a lavish use of medical technologies, responsible for 50 percent of the yearly increase. Chronic illness -- cancer and heart disease, most notably -- account for 65 percent of those costs, but are incurred by only 20 percent of the elderly.
The political list of impediments to a control of costs are many. Too many people make a good living off health care to want change, politicians have been divided for decades about the direction of reform, and no more than 20 to 25 percent of the public supports any cut in Medicare benefits, with the only acceptable tax increase that on the rich.
Will the Affordable Care Act or Paul D. Ryan's premium-support plan save Medicare? At best, the Affordable Care Act, even if not crippled by Republican attacks, will help, but there are reasons to be skeptical.
The Ryan plan would eventually do away with Medicare altogether, reminding me of a famous line from the Vietnam War, that of ''destroying a village in order to save it.''
I am as sorry as Dr. Elizabeth R. Rosenthal that we do not have universal, government-regulated health care -- though the countries with such systems are also having problems.
But our ultimate problem is not one of better organization. We ultimately need a medical revolution, here and abroad.
As Judy Amory says, it is time to end the relentless war against death in the old, thinking that we can beat it with more and better technologies.
The only real progress we are getting is not cures but increasingly expensive ways of keeping sick people alive, in and out of intensive-care units, and with a 50-50 chance of getting Alzheimer's after age 85 as the final, lethal prize.
But that revolution will require the elderly's help. We must change our views, being willing to push a cut in benefits and an increase in taxes, yet taking care not to burden our children, who will bear the tax burden.
I am 80 years old. I have lived a good and long life. I trust that my family and friends will miss me when I die, but the death of people my age is no social tragedy. The blessing is that a new generation will take our place, which our death makes possible. That's a little hard on us, but good for them.
DANIEL CALLAHAN Washington, June 30, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); ETHICS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); BIOETHICS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (68%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



102 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: South Carolina's Young Governor Has a High Profile and Higher Hopes

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- Nikki Haley, at 39 the nation's youngest governor, loves her iPod.
When she signed a long-fought bill to bring more transparency to legislative voting, the Black Eyed Peas blasted through the Capitol rotunda here.
Joan Jett, a personal hero because of her fight to prove that women can rock, provided inspiration when it seemed impossible that a relatively inexperienced, deeply conservative woman with Indian immigrant roots could win a bid to govern the state where the Civil War began.
But Ms. Haley's most enduring theme song, as it was when she campaigned on Tea Party politics and a nod from Sarah Palin, might be Tom Petty's ''I Won't Back Down.''
She has built a governorship on aggressive budget cutting, a relentless pursuit of job growth and a cheerleader's enthusiasm for a state that often finishes toward the back of the pack in education, economics and health. 
''We are now what every state is going to want to look like,'' Ms. Haley said in an interview in her office almost six months into her administration.
''We are now the state that is very excited,'' she said, referring to a catchphrase -- ''Get excited'' -- that she uses in virtually every speech, bill signing and elementary school tour that comes her way. ''The people are now in charge.''
Ms. Haley's image of the people's governor is not exactly Jacksonian in its nature. Although her supporters praise the former legislator's drive to improve government practices and spur business-minded economic change, critics have raised questions about the depth of her dedication to transparency and her skills on matters of politics, if not policy.
''Her understanding of the role of state government appears rather limited,'' said the political historian Jack Bass, who has written biographies of Southerners including Strom Thurmond and, most recently, the book ''The Palmetto State: The Making of Modern South Carolina.'' But he offers an assessment shared by South Carolinians and national political observers alike: ''I just find her interesting.''
Of the nation's 29 freshman governors, her national profile is among the highest, an advantage she hopes to enhance with a memoir -- ''Can't Is Not an Option'' -- scheduled for release by the Penguin Group in January. Telegenic and direct, she is popular with producers of national news shows. Her digital-savvy young staff issues YouTube-ready videos that show everything from her cabinet meetings to the crowning of collard greens as the official state vegetable.
A parade of Republican presidential candidates has passed through her office in the Capitol here, seeking her advice and, more important, her endorsement. South Carolina, which holds the South's first primary, has correctly picked the Republican presidential nominee in every race since 1980.
She has repeatedly said she is not interested in being a vice-presidential running mate on the 2012 Republican ticket, but her name is already etched into the list of future party leaders.
But the governor's focus on the policies of President Obama has offered the most substantive contribution to her national profile. She regularly criticizes his policies on health care and spending, and has called him a bully for his administration's stance on a $750 million jet assembly plant that Boeing opened in North Charleston in June.
The National Labor Relations Board sued the aeronautics giant over the plant, contending that Boeing picked South Carolina, a right-to-work state -- where workers cannot be required to join a union -- to retaliate against union workers in Washington State who struck three years ago.
Ms. Haley, who has support from more than a dozen governors on the issue, testified recently before a Congressional oversight committee on the role of the board. Her point? The federal government must stop getting in the way of economic growth in the states.
Later, in a conference call with reporters, she said that she wanted the president to intervene in the lawsuit and that her job was ''to be loud and annoying and in his face.''
Back home, legislators say her administration is a refreshing change from the tumultuous days of her predecessor, Mark Sanford, whose uncooperative relations with elected officials is legend around the Statehouse. She has also received good marks for fighting to lower Medicaid costs and for many of her cabinet appointments.
Still, the governor's strict approach to limiting spending hit a wall with lawmakers, who this week overrode most of the vetoes she issued on a $6 billion general fund budget.
Ms. Haley wanted to eliminate spending for the South Carolina Arts Commission and its public educational television system, money to pay for the state Republican presidential primary and some financing for education, economic development and tourism.
Some of the tension between the governor and members of the Legislature comes from a style of governing that can bypass the decorum that underscores much of political life in this stalwart of the Old South.
Ms. Haley kept political rivals off the guest list during an end-of-session barbecue at the Governor's Mansion that has traditionally been open to all lawmakers. She also began issuing report cards on legislators, prompting some to call her a schoolmarm.
And she tried to force the State Senate to return early from a break to get her way on a bill to change the way the state's administrative work is done, losing narrowly in the South Carolina Supreme Court. She viewed the fight as one against entrenched power. Some lawmakers saw it as a lesson in how not to play the game.
Many constituents were troubled by Ms. Haley's removal of Darla Moore, the most influential donor to the University of South Carolina, from the board of trustees. She replaced her with a campaign contributor.
Was it because Ms. Moore, whom Fortune magazine named one of the 50 most powerful women in American business, did not meet with the governor in a timely manner? Or was that just an excuse offered for a move the governor had long planned to make? Or was the whole thing merely a power struggle between two powerful people?
None of the above, Ms. Haley said in an interview. She gets to name one voting member to the board, and she wanted someone aligned with her own views.
''You don't put benefactors on a governing board, because all of the sudden the 19-member board becomes a board of one because everybody is afraid to upset the woman who gave $70 million,'' the governor said. ''It may not have been good politics, but it was good policy.''
Ms. Moore did not respond publicly after being replaced, but she did deliver a jab in a speech in which she announced another $5 million donation to the university. ''Excellence is our standard, and it must be maintained even if there are those who would offer policies which would serve to dumb us down,'' she said.
The whole affair had even Ms. Haley's most-enamored Tea Party supporters shaking their heads.
There are other indications that the various groups that organize loosely under the South Carolina Tea Party umbrella cannot be counted on as Haley loyalists. Some have questioned her motives behind the creation of a special Tea Party advisory board, and criticized how she handled Amazon.com's desire for a tax break in return for moving a distribution plant to the state.
The deal, which allows South Carolina residents to forgo the sales tax on products ordered through the retailer, had been in place before Ms. Haley took office. But it required a new piece of legislation.
In a move intended to be a political threading of the needle, she said she was opposed to the tax break but would not veto the bill.
''Governor Haley is talking a great talk, but refuses to walk the walk,'' Talbert Black of the South Carolina Campaign for Liberty wrote in an e-mail to his supporters.
Her overall popularity appears to be evenly split. In June, a poll from Public Policy Polling in North Carolina put her approval rating at 42 percent and her disapproval rating at 41 percent.
''It seems like she is changing a lot of things, but she's not looking too deeply into issues,'' said Edna Harris, 52, a lifelong Democrat who said the governor was a regular topic at Hair Solutions, the salon in Columbia that she owns.
Supporters, who conceded that the governor has made a few political stumbles, said she was doing exactly what she set out to do: shake up the way government does business.
''Nikki's in a hurry -- I think that's what it boils down to,'' said Henry McMaster, a former state attorney general who ran against Ms. Haley in the primary and became one of her biggest supporters. ''She makes it clear what she wants done, and it causes a little friction.''
One thing is certain. In the middle of it all, Ms. Haley seems to be having fun.
Her family -- her husband, Michael Haley, an Army National Guard first lieutenant, and their daughter, Rena, 13, and son, Nalin, 9 -- watches ''American Idol'' and plays games during regular family fun nights.
The children, who attend public school, enjoy playing tricks on the mansion staff.
One involved slipping a red wig onto a bust of a South Carolina dignitary whose name Ms. Haley could not recall. But she does recall when she spotted it. She had a houseful of senators.
''We just have such a good time,'' Ms. Haley said.
Still, governing the way she wants to seems to give her the biggest thrill.
''You can feel the energy. You can feel the buzz,'' she said. ''It's because people are incredibly excited about their government and elected officials are incredibly scared and it's a beautiful thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
TOURING THE STATEHOUSE: Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina recently signed autographs for third graders from Ballentine Elementary School in Irmo. (A12)
 Gov. Nikki Haley, at her office with an aide, frequently uses the catchphrase ''Get excited.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE McQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); HISTORY (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (62%); BUDGET CUTS (54%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (91%); SARAH PALIN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



103 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Enter a Royal Ensemble, Preceded by Its Stage

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

 BODY:
THE Royal Shakespeare Company doesn't travel light. In mid-June a convoy of 46 shipping containers began to arrive at the Park Avenue Armory, having made the journey by truck and boat from Stratford-Upon-Avon to the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
One container was filled with flat-packed hoop skirts and World War I uniforms. Another held a life-size model of a wild boar and a 12-foot bear suit with glowing eyes. A third stored 20 wigs, 15 mustaches and several cans of litchis to serve as Gloucester's savaged eyeballs in ''King Lear.'' But that was just for starters.
As it happens, the company also packed a million-dollar theater. 
For its six-week stint at the armory beginning Wednesday, co-produced by the Armory and the Lincoln Center Festival in association with Ohio State University, the company will perform five plays in repertory (as well as two plays for young audiences) on an almost exact replica of its new main stage in Stratford. Exploiting almost every inch of the Armory's 65 feet of usable height, this three-tier auditorium seats 975 and boasts a thrust stage that extends far out into the audience, allowing for greater interplay between actors and spectators. The portable theater's ingenious design incorporates most of the shipping crates to raise and support the stage and to create a backstage storage area. The original Stratford stage took more than two years to build; the armory one must be assembled in just two weeks.
Why would the Royal Shakespeare Company, having only recently completed a major reconstruction of its home stage, want to travel some 3,500 miles with an enormous dismantled auditorium? ''We're off our tiny trolley,'' said the company artistic director, Michael Boyd, speaking by telephone from Stratford. ''We're insane.''
Yet there's method in his madness. Mr. Boyd, who took over the company in 2003 during a financial crisis and (according to many London critics) an aesthetic stasis, has reinvigorated it, in part by reviving the tradition of the long ensemble, a company of actors who sign contracts to work together for three years. As the current ensemble neared the end of its tenure, Mr. Boyd and Nigel Redden, the Lincoln Center Festival's director, conceived of this summer season as a rare chance to flaunt the fruits of that sustained labor.
The Royal Shakespeare has played in New York before, but it has always relied on existing theaters, like the Brooklyn Academy of Music or a Broadway house. And with a slate that includes ''As You Like It,'' ''Julius Caesar,'' ''King Lear,'' ''Romeo and Juliet'' and ''The Winter's Tale,'' it has never before brought so many plays at once. (In 1913 the company's predecessor did tour the United States with a whopping 14 productions, but it declined to make a stop in Manhattan, declaring that New York theater had grown too vulgar to permit a visit.)
Mr. Boyd explained the choice to bring along his own theater by saying that the work requires ''congregational, communitarian, deep-thrust spaces'' that spatially unite actors and audience. As few such spaces exist worldwide, he said, ''one solution is to become something of a tortoise and bring our house with us.''
The armory engagement will be the company's first chance to test out this moveable playhouse, but having recently built two new deep thrust auditoriums -- the Courtyard in Stratford, in which the company staged plays during construction, and another theater within the Roundhouse, its current London home -- the company already had some experience of temporary playhouses. ''We're not completely mad,'' Mr. Boyd said.
You wouldn't guess it from the cranes, forklifts, clanging metal, welding sparks and diesel fumes that filled the Armory in June, but sending over a facsimile stage makes certain aspects of production easier. ''In order for us to land these shows in pretty quick succession it's much easier for us to do in a space that replicates pretty precisely our own,'' he said.
At the armory lights, props and sets won't require any reconfiguring, nor will actors need to learn new blocking, though they may find some variance in acoustics, owing to the traveling theater's more lightweight materials. Alan Bartlett, the company's head of construction and technical design, noted that striking the balance between the theater's ease of assembly and its acoustic properties had posed the greatest challenge.
Still, a familiar space should come as a relief to the actors, some of whom have roles in as many as four plays to juggle. In addition to the company's other freight these players are bringing over more than 100 roles to play concurrently, which they characterized as extremely rewarding, if mentally taxing.
Recalling the Royal Shakespeare Company's recent London stint at the Roundhouse, Darrell D'Silva, who plays Antony and Kent among other parts, admitted that he occasionally found himself ''muttering the wrong lines to another play just before the curtain.'' Greg Hicks, who takes on Caesar, Leontes and King Lear, said, ''I have been known to walk on in 'Julius Caesar' and begin a scene from 'The Winter's Tale' and have had to back track.''
As Katy Stephens, who plays Rosalind and Regan, said, ''When you're doing a matinee of one and an evening performance of the other, you have to be really ruthless with your characters, like discarding outfits -- or lovers.''
Scores of characters mean a lot of discarded outfits, and on an afternoon in late June, just days before the players arrived, the wardrobe department busied itself with sorting the thousands of costume pieces. One cardboard container disgorged delicate shoes and stockings, from another emerged wolf masks with fiendishly sharp teeth. Almost everything needed steaming and some dresses required repairs, but the wardrobe mistress, Delfina Angioli, seemed unfazed by the chaos. ''When it comes together, it'll look really tidy,'' she said. ''It will look effortless.''
Nearby, on a balcony overlooking the stage, Mr. Bartlett tuned out the commotion below and surveyed the nearly complete playhouse. ''It's fantastic to look around and see what we've achieved in eight days,'' he said. ''We've built a theater.''
Correction: July 10, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday on the Royal Shakespeare Company's arrival in New York, left out one of the producers for the company's six-week stay in the city. The residency is being co-produced by the Park Avenue Armory and the Lincoln Center Festival in association with Ohio State University.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers setting up the Royal Shakespeare Company's auditorium at the Park Avenue Armory last month. Some of the 46 shipping containers from Stratford-Upon-Avon, England, at right, will serve as dressing rooms and support the stage. (AR3)
 A rear view of the seating area in the Royal Shakespeare Company's temporary auditorium. Above right, some of the costumes needed for seven plays. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); MAMMALS (76%); WORLD WAR I (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); YOUNG AUDIENCES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011



104 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; RIFF; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: 'Tough, Cold, Terse, Taciturn and Prone to Not Saying Goodbye When They Hang Up the Phone'

BYLINE: By CARINA CHOCANO

 BODY:
Every time I hear someone use the term ''strong female character,'' I want to punch them. The problem is, I hit like a girl. Before I go further, here's an anecdote that might help set the tone for what I'm about to try to say, which I worry has the potential to come across all wrong unless I manage to dispel certain widely shared assumptions without unduly setting anyone off. 
Years ago, in the nascent days of the George W. Bush administration, while en route to the airport from his parents' house in Florida, my boyfriend at that time and I spent an afternoon visiting with his brother and his brother's girlfriend. Like many Democrats, I was still very angry with Florida, and as fond as I was of my ex-boyfriend's parents, navigating the minefield of our respective political affiliations (which pretty much meant we had to limit our debates to discussing the relative merits of Outback Steakhouse versus Chili's) left me exhausted, depressed and somewhat bloated. By the time we reached his brother's house, I was ready to go back to California and resume my life of loudly resenting Florida from a safe distance while eating at restaurants that didn't require their servers to memorize corporate scripts. All that stood in the way of me and this golden dream was the visit.
It started, innocuously enough, with lunch in the kitsch-yet-sinister town of Celebration, where we hoped to be lucky enough to experience a postprandial, regularly scheduled fake snowfall. It took a darker turn after we piled back into the S.U.V., headed to their house to pick up the guns and drove to the indoor gun range. As Rush Limbaugh fulminated at top volume, I slumped in the back seat like a sullen 13-year-old, a gun case resting heavily on my lap, and wondered how I had arrived at this place. What did it mean that I was here? Could I be here and still be me? Who was I? Within about 15 seconds of stepping inside the shooting range, before the guy behind the counter could take my gun order, I burst into tears, ran outside and spent the next couple of hours alone in the car reading Jane Austen.
So here is the question I'm posing: If this story were a scene in a movie, and the movie were being told from the point of view of a young woman, would you describe that protagonist as a ''strong female character''? Or would you consider her to be weak?
If weak, would you find it possible to relate to her on the basis of something other than her sex characteristics? Or would identifying with this ''feminine'' behavior threaten your sense of self, whether you were a man or a woman? Would you consider the scene funny, or not, and if not, why not? And what would a ''strong female character'' in a movie have done in this situation, anyway? Toss off an epigram and then shoot the radio? Reveal a latent talent for martial arts, jump the rifle-range counter and start pummeling the guy at the desk? Confidently march out the door to the strains of a Motown anthem and never look back? And what would she be wearing? Would boots or stilettos need to be involved? Or would flip-flops or ballet flats be O.K.?
''Strong female character'' is one of those shorthand memes that has leached into the cultural groundwater and spawned all kinds of cinematic cliches: alpha professionals whose laserlike focus on career advancement has turned them into grim, celibate automatons; robotic, lone-wolf, ascetic action heroines whose monomaniacal devotion to their crime-fighting makes them lean and cranky and very impatient; murderous 20-something comic-book salesgirls who dream of one day sidekicking for a superhero; avenging brides; poker-faced assassins; and gloomy ninjas with commitment issues. It has resulted in characters like Natalie Portman's in ''No Strings Attached,'' who does everything in her power to avoid commitment, even with a guy she's actually in love with; or Lisbeth Salander in Stieg Larsson's Millennium trilogy; or pretty much every character Jodie Foster has played since ''Nell'' or, possibly, ''Freaky Friday.''
Maybe I'm a cream puff, but few cultural tropes get under my skin like ''strong female character,'' and it still surprises me when like-minded people use it. Maybe the problem is semantic. Maybe what people mean when they say ''strong female characters'' is female characters who are ''strong,'' i.e., interesting or complex or well written -- ''strong'' in the sense that they figure predominantly in the story, rather than recede decoratively into the background. But I get the feeling that what most people mean or hear when they say or hear ''strong female character'' is female characters who are tough, cold, terse, taciturn and prone to scowling and not saying goodbye when they hang up the phone.
Of course, I get the point of characters like these. They do serve as a kind of gateway drug to slightly more realistic -- or at least representational -- representations of women. On the other hand, they also reinforce the unspoken idea that in order for a female character to be worth identifying with, she should really try to rein in the gross girly stuff. This implies that unless a female character is ''strong,'' she is not interesting or worth identifying with.
''Strong women characters'' are a canard. They refer to the old-fashioned ''strong, silent type,'' a type that tolerates very little blubbering, dithering, neuroticism, anxiety, melancholy or any other character flaw or weakness that makes a character unpredictable and human.
The absurdity of the strong-female-character expectation becomes apparent if you reverse it: Not only does calling for ''strong male characters'' sound ridiculous and kind of reactionary, but who really wants to watch them? They sound boring. In fact, traditional ''strong male characters'' have been almost entirely abandoned in favor of male characters who are blubbery, dithering, neurotic, anxious, melancholic or otherwise ''weak,'' because this weakness is precisely what makes characters interesting, relatable and funny.
Just to give an idea how entrenched, pervasive and distorting this idea can be: A few weeks back, I was in the car listening to Elvis Mitchell interview Paul Feig, the director of ''Bridesmaids.'' Mitchell remarked that ''Bridesmaids'' seemed an unlikely project for Feig to have taken on. Feig replied that he had wanted to do a project for ''strong women characters'' for a while and pointed out that, after all, ''Freaks and Geeks'' was Lindsay's -- a teenage girl's -- story.
Funny, Mitchell remarked, Kristen Wiig's character in the movie didn't exactly strike him as particularly strong -- she actually seemed like kind of a mess. Feig conceded that, yes, she was kind of a mess, but it was O.K., because they had made sure to establish in two scenes that, before she was temporarily derailed by the recession, she was a talented and successful business owner and would soon be back on top.
I don't really believe that Feig, whose movie is the first in a while to feature women who sound a lot like women, thinks that the reason that we feel empathy and not contempt for Wiig's delightfully, deliriously, awesomely messed-up and pathetic character is because she used to own a bakery. I think he meant it in the other sense, in the sense that he meant to do a story told strongly from a woman's point of view. Either that or what happened was that he felt himself pulled into a discussion that's been so distorted by this pervasive and stifling either/or fallacy that confronting it actually makes people get nervous and say weird things. I'm sure he's perfectly aware that the movie has struck a nerve because its female characters are such a jumble of flaws and contradictions. Wiig's not likeable despite the fact that she never gets her brake lights fixed and thoughtlessly hurts someone even as she herself is experiencing the pain of being hurt; or despite the fact that she's jealous of her best friend's happiness or of her best friend's new best friend's money and apparent perfection; or that she lingers in a destructive relationship with a guy she knows is treating her like dirt; or that, unlike the protagonists of the average romantic comedy aimed at women, she is forced to live with weirdos, who treat her miserably, and she doesn't live in an adorable downtown loft complete with a pale blue refrigerator that retails for $2,000. (Nice touch, ''Something Borrowed.'') We don't relate to her despite the fact that she is weak, we relate to her because she is weak.
In an essay about MTV's reality show ''The Real World,'' Chuck Klosterman wrote about how he and his raw-hot-dog-eating roommate came to be enthralled by the show in its first season and subsequent seasons: ''The raw hot dog eater and I watched these people argue all summer long, and then we watched them argue again in the summer of 1993, and then again in the summer of 1994. Technically, these people were completely different every year, but they were also exactly the same. And pretty soon it became clear that the producers of 'The Real World' weren't sampling the youth of America -- they were unintentionally creating it.''
Something similar happens when we talk about strong female characters. Certain traits become codified into a bad-faith embodiment of a type rarely found in nature: the stunning blond 23-year-old astrophysicist whose precocious brilliance and professional-grade beauty are no match for her otherworldly self-confidence, say, or the workaholic mercenary encumbered by emotions. It's as if the naturalism of male characters has grown in inverse proportion to the realism in female characters. The insistence on ''strong female character'' is not bad because it aspires to engender respect, it's bad because it tries to compensate for an existing imbalance by stacking the deck in favor of the female character, by making her better, more deserving, higher-toned, more virtuous and deserving of respect, somehow.
''Strength,'' in the parlance, is the 21st-century equivalent of ''virtue.'' And what we think of as ''virtuous,'' or culturally sanctioned, socially acceptable behavior now, in women as in men, is the ability to play down qualities that have been traditionally considered feminine and play up the qualities that have traditionally been considered masculine. ''Strong female characters,'' in other words, are often just female characters with the gendered behavior taken out. This makes me think that the problem is not that there aren't enough ''strong'' female characters in the movies -- it's that there aren't enough realistically weak ones. You know what's better than a prostitute with a machine gun for a leg or a propulsion engineer with a sideline in avionics whose maternal instincts and belief in herself allow her to take apart an airborne plane and discover a terrorist plot despite being gaslighted by the flight crew? A girl who reminds you of you.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM GAULD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%)

COMPANY: OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



105 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
I just don't like the idea of putting money in someone else's pocket for something I will never own.'' Donna Boyd, a homeowner in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. Owning a house remains central to Americans' sense of well-being, even as many doubt that their home is a good investment after a punishing recession, a recent poll showed. ''Bank of America has charted a path that our clients expect other banks will follow.'' Kathy D. Patrick, the lawyer who represented BlackRock, Pimco, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other investors who hold the soured mortgage securities assembled by the Bank of America. The bank said it would take a $20 billion hit to put the fallout from the subprime bust behind it and satisfy claims from angry investors. 
''This only buys Greece time to get the serious work done.'' Carl Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in New York. Greek lawmakers voted to sharply reduce government spending and sell off an array of national assets, staving off default on the country's debt and easing, for the moment, a crisis among countries that use the euro its for business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); LAWYERS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



106 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Doubts About President's Health Add to Uncertainty in Yemen

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- A senior Yemeni official who was briefed on the health of President Ali Abdullah Saleh said that the president's injuries would leave him unfit to perform his duties for months, throwing a new degree of uncertainty into a political standoff that has trapped this impoverished desert nation.
With the streets still full of thousands of protesters, and Yemen's economy in a tailspin, Mr. Saleh's relatives have insisted on keeping power, clinging to a narrative that paints them as all that stand in the way of Islamist militants' seizing control. They also hew to the position that the president will indeed return to his post. 
As a result, Mr. Saleh's departure to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment has yet to pave the way for a transition as the opposition, the United States and even some governing party members are pushing for, but instead has prolonged a crisis, as radical Islamists have extended their reach in the south and Yemen, a nation of 23 million, has struggled to survive.
''We are in a stalemate situation militarily and politically,'' said Abdel Karim al-Eryani, a former prime minister and presidential adviser. ''What do we do? We need to start fresh thinking about how to overcome the crisis.''
There are various proposals on the table, including the creation of a national unity government proposed by a bloc of Persian Gulf countries led by Saudi Arabia and supported by Western nations. Before he was wounded in a bomb attack on the presidential palace a month ago, Mr. Saleh had agreed to the proposal but refused to sign it.
Now, with Mr. Saleh abroad and incapacitated, the biggest obstacle to a political transition may be his relatives who maintain powerful positions within the security forces, mainly his son and three nephews. This group, whom Yemeni officials refer as the ''wild cards,'' completely dismiss the legitimacy of the uprising that has drawn hundreds of thousands into the streets for the last five months to challenge the president's rule.
''The problem is that the rest of the world believes that this is a youth revolution,'' Brig. Gen. Yahya Saleh, one of the nephews, said in an interview in his office at the sprawling headquarters of Central Security Forces, the paramilitary division he commands.
''How many are there in the squares?'' he asked. ''Do they represent the majority? In a democracy, does the minority rule the majority? They should have some self-respect and go home. It's been five months now, and it's boring.''
A successful businessman before assuming his position in the military in 2004, General Saleh had a casual air, propping a black commando boot on a coffee table and frequently making himself break into giggles. He had an affection for the revolutionary Che Guevara, whose photo was on his cellphone, a somewhat jarring affinity for a general whose main task these days is thwarting a rebellion.
He and his family say that the protesters and the various strands of political opposition, would, if given power, pave the way for Al Qaeda to take over the country.
They fear surrendering the country they have ruled for decades to their tribal and political enemies -- namely the powerful Ahmar family and Maj. Gen. Ali Mohsin al-Ahmar, the military commander, no relation to the Ahmar family, who threw his support to the protest movement in March. This was days after government-allied snipers killed 52 protesters and shot more than 100 others while soldiers belonging to General Saleh's Central Security Forces stood and watched about three blocks away.
The most outspoken member of the Ahmar clan, Sheik Hamid al-Ahmar, is a leading member of the Islamist party Al Isla, a religious party whose members cover a broad political spectrum. General Ahmar has had links to Islamic militants returning from Afghanistan, although he has presented himself recently as a voice of moderation.
The Saleh family says any appearance of moderation is a sham.
''The Americans are making a mistake to support any change that will lead to the control of extremists and the Muslim Brotherhood,'' General Saleh said. He also rejected the idea that any attempt to include moderate Islamists in the political process would counter the strength of the extremists in the Isla party.
''Here in the Middle East, the extremists are the strongest,'' he said. ''Extremists have the power. So no one can stand against them.''
The fissures between the sides have existed for years, but the political uprising quickly forced them to the surface, as the Salehs believed that the Ahmars were fomenting the uprising. An important part of the initiative brokered by Western and Persian Gulf nations for Mr. Saleh to leave office was that these leading opposition figures would also have to leave the country for a set period.
Their split has also turned Sana into a divided city, with a standoff on the streets of the capital between the rival armies -- those loyal to the Salehs and those belonging to General Ahmar. Analysts say the only reason violence has not grown worse is because both sides are armed to the teeth.
General Saleh has been a major beneficiary of American counterterrorism support, which has temporarily been cut off during the crisis.
He said a full investigation was being undertaken to find those responsible for the June 3 attack on the presidential palace. ''Initial indications point to Al Qaeda,'' he said, adding, ''We must wait for the final results of the investigation of the assassination attempt, especially in light of the indications that some'' members of the opposition ''were involved.''
''All of us in the regime have given oaths that we would protect 'the country, the revolution and the unity,' '' he said. ''Therefore, no matter how you look at it, we will never back down from our oath in which Allah is a witness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Antigovernment protesters calling for Yemen's president to resign stopped for noon prayers on Saturday in Sana, Yemen's capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANI MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANAA, YEMEN (78%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) YEMEN (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



107 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Clinics Face Budget Reductions and a New Wave of Patients

BYLINE: By KATHARINE MIESZKOWSKI. 
kmieszkowski@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
On a recent Friday morning, more than a dozen patients crowded into a waiting room at CompreCare Health Center in San Jose. Many were Hispanic mothers with young children, there to see an obstetrician, pediatrician or family practitioner.
That already busy waiting room is about to get busier. Health care reform is projected to bring insurance to as many as 50,000 Santa Clara County residents by 2014. Some of the burden of tending to the anticipated influx of new patients will fall to health centers like CompreCare, which cater to low-income patients.
But the budget deal struck in Sacramento last week highlights a growing paradox for providers on the front lines of health reform. The budget, which strips $1.5 billion from Medi-Cal, exacerbates a financial crisis for organizations bracing for such an influx.
''How can you serve more people when you have to cut back?'' said Reymundo Espinoza, chief executive of Gardner Family Health Network, the nonprofit organization that operates CompreCare and four other similar health centers in Santa Clara County. 
Mr. Espinoza, who has headed Gardner for 25 years, said the network was considering reducing the number of doctors and clinicians for the first time in two decades because of the state budget crisis and severe cuts to federal financing.
Gardner has failed to break even in each of the last two fiscal years after losing $2 million in revenue from the state. The network was already projecting a $1 million shortfall this year before passage of the state budget, which will squeeze Gardner's bottom line further.
As a result, plans to extend hours and services at existing clinics in the county, as well as plans to open a new one, are in jeopardy, according to health care administrators and county officials.
''You can't suddenly give health care coverage and not have the delivery system available to receive them,'' said Elizabeth Darrow, chief executive of Santa Clara Family Health Plan, the county's public health plan, which provides coverage to 130,000 low-income residents. ''It's illogical.''
The strain on health centers like CompreCare, which are central to health care reform, could make or break the new law, Ms. Darrow said.
''There is pent-up demand, and we have to be ready for it,'' she said. ''There is potential for health care reform failing because of it.''
Gardner Family Health Network currently serves 37,000 patients in Santa Clara County; 90 percent are regarded as low income. Gardner's $52 million budget is financed through a combination of public insurance programs like Medi-Cal, California's Medicaid program, and grants from state, federal and local agencies.
Forty-five percent of Gardner's patients are covered by Medi-Cal; nearly the same percentage have no insurance at all. Yet the clinics turn no one away.
''If you are sick, you will be seen,'' Mr. Espinoza said.
Because of the recession, the number of patients coming to Gardner with no health insurance increased by 10 percent in the last year.
Santa Clara County health officials described Gardner, one of the largest health care providers to the county's poor, as an essential part of the safety net.
''We basically couldn't do our job without them,'' said Dr. Jeffrey V. Smith, county executive for Santa Clara. ''We would be overwhelmed if they weren't here.'' About one-fifth of all mothers who deliver their babies in the county hospital receive care from Gardner before or after the birth.
Carmela Castellano-Garcia, president and chief executive of the California Primary Care Association, a trade group representing health care clinics throughout the state, said Gardner was keeping thousands of people ''out of the emergency room of Santa Clara County and saving significant dollars to the county coffers.''
Yet the budget crisis is severely testing Gardner's ability to meet the needs of the community. The network lost $1.5 million because the state eliminated dental coverage for adults under Medi-Cal in 2009. The clinics lost another $500,000 because of cuts to a state program created to reimburse health centers for providing services to the uninsured.
Now more austerity is coming. As Medi-Cal shrinks by $1.5 billion, the budget requires that patients make co-payments -- money that many of them will be unable to afford.
''The reality is that we probably won't be able to collect,'' said Mr. Espinoza.
Some uninsured patients that Gardner already sees will soon have insurance, thanks to the federal health care reform law. That will bring in new revenue to the clinics to support their care. But new patients who have avoided seeing a doctor because they were unable to pay will be arriving, too.
The squeeze of shrinking revenues at a time of expanding demand is being felt by clinics and public health agencies across the state.
''What's happening to them is the microcosm of what is happening to most of the institutions that are involved in providing health care services in the public sector in California,'' said Bob Brownstein, director of policy and research for Working Partnerships USA, a public policy organization in San Jose.
As part of health care reform, Santa Clara County plans to admit 20,000 to 30,000 low-income patients into an expanded Medicaid program. The county intends to extend coverage to some patients as soon as in the next few months. Health centers like Gardner play a key role in those plans, according to health officials.
But federal financing to help those health centers expand is drying up.
Health centers nationwide had expected to compete for $250 million in assistance to open new locations; after the federal budget compromise in April, that had shrunk to $40 million. Some $300 million for expanding existing services, like hiring new clinicians and increasing hours, shrank to zero.
Gardner is still planning to open a new clinic this fall in downtown San Jose at the former site of the San Jose Medical Center, whose closure in 2004 caused a public outcry. The county is paying $750,000 for renovations of a medical building there for the new clinic. Gardner is expecting to serve 3,000 patients a year at the 8,000-square-foot location.
''A clinic isn't a hospital, but it's something, and it will serve everybody,'' said Rosylin Dean, an advocate with Coalition for a Downtown Hospital, a community group.
But Gardner now lacks the crucial $500,000 in start-up capital to get the clinic open for business. It is among 800 clinics nationwide now competing for a piece of that $40 million in federal money to open new locations and accommodate the newly insured.
The county is also looking to help Gardner open the clinic.
''We will find the money,'' vowed Dr. Smith, the county executive.
That clinic is just the start of Santa Clara County's plans for the 14-acre site of the old hospital.
With $50 million from a bond passed in 2008, the county plans to build a 60,000-square-foot health center by late 2014 or early 2015.
Gardner will operate a larger clinic in that building -- if it can raise enough money to get it up and running.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alejandra Padilla, 4, above, has her hair braided while waiting for care at the Gardner Health Center in San Jose. Left, dental work is performed at the clinic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PEDIATRICS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



108 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PIGOTT, J

 BODY:
PIGOTT--J. Robert (August 7, 1924 June 25, 2011) Bob Pigott was laid to rest on June 30, 2011 at Cypress Hills Cemetery at the age of 86. He is mourned by his wife of 56 years, Simone. He is also survived his loving children, Patricia Pigott Strauss and James Robert Pigott, Jr. and, grandchildren, James M. and Julia F. Pigott, son-in-law, Wayne Strauss, and daughter-in-law, Cynthia Moekle Pigott. A passionate supporter of liberal causes, he had been actively involved in several local and national political organizations, including the John F. Kennedy Democratic Club and Americans for Democratic Action. He once served as President of the local school board. Bob retired from the New York State Department of Housing and Community Renewal, where he had been active in the Organization of Management Confidential Employees. He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II and was a particularly loyal alumnus of Hamilton College. He was a great lover of history, literature, theater, film and the New York Mets. Condolences may be sent to his former home address or to bobpigott@aol.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ARMIES (83%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICS (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); WORLD WAR II (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (57%); NEW YORK METS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



109 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, July 3rd 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 3, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 18, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList114THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $37.50.) The historian explores the intellectual legacy that France settled on its 19th-century visitors. 2431UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 336IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 422DEMONIC, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $28.99.) The columnist compares the Democratic Party to a mob. 586SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s, $26.99.) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his training and missions. 6611BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $26.99.) A memoir from the creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 753THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins, $26.99.) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course, from his career at the University of Florida to his rookie season in Denver. 874THOSE GUYS HAVE ALL THE FUN, by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An oral history of the sports network ESPN. 9106LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central, $24.99.) Handler&#39;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 10*97DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (Ecco, $27.99.) The singer and showman recounts the rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith. 114ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Press, $36.) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need a design of partnership. 1240---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (It Books/HarperCollins, $15.99.) A memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author&#39;s father. 13115AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs. 14133RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner. (Times Books/Holt, $30.) This account of the Wall Street implosion highlights individuals who played crucial roles of responsibility. 15122THE SECRET KNOWLEDGE, by David Mamet. (Sentinel, $27.95.) The playwright denounces liberalism and offers his views on religion and American culture.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
17. DECISION POINTS, by George W. Bush. (Crown)
18. CAR GUYS VS. BEAN COUNTERS, by Bob Lutz. (Portfolio)
19. LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper)
20. STAN MUSIAL, by George Vecsey. (ESPN)
21. LICENSE TO PAWN, by Rick Harrison with Tim Keown. (Hyperion)
22. LADY BLUE EYES, by Barbara Sinatra with Wendy Holden. (Crown Archetype)
23. STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt)
24. THE MIRACLE OF FREEDOM, by Chris Stewart and Ted Stewart. (Shadow Mountain)
25. THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Riverhead)
26. THE HEART AND THE FIST, by Eric Greitens. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
27. THE POST-AMERICAN WORLD 2.0, by Fareed Zakaria. (W. W. Norton)
28. THE CAPTAIN, by Ian O&#39;Connor. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
29. MY LUCKY LIFE IN AND OUT OF SHOW BUSINESS, by Dick Van Dyke. (Crown Archetype)
30. A LOVE THAT MULTIPLIES, by Michelle and Jim Bob Duggar. (Howard)
31. THIS IS A BOOK, by Demetri Martin. (Grand Central)
32. 56 (JOE DIMAGGIO AND THE LAST MAGIC NUMBER IN SPORTS), by Kostya Kennedy. (Sports Illustrated)
33. PROFESSIONAL IDIOT, by Stephen &#34;steve-o&#34; Glover with David Peisner. (Hyperion)
34. THE BIG FIGHT, by Sugar Ray Leonard with Michael Arkush. (Viking)
35. THE LAST GUNFIGHT, by Jeff Guinn. (Simon &#38; Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); HISTORY (87%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); ATHLETES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); RUNNING (51%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (67%); BERLIN, GERMANY (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



110 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, July 3rd 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 3, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 18, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Paperback NonfictionThisOnWeekList11THE ORIGINAL ARGUMENT, by Glenn Beck with Joshua Charles. (Threshold Editions/Mercury Radio Arts, $16.) The Federalists&#39; case for the Constitution, adapted for the 21st century. &#8224;231HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $16.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels. 32OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent. 415THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Broadway, $16.) A woman&#39;s cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 54THANK YOU NOTES, by Jimmy Fallon with the writers of &#34;Late Night&#34;. (Grand Central, $12.) Many things give the TV host opportunities to be grateful. 6224THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $15.) The author recalls a bizarre childhood. &#8224;77LIFE, by Keith Richards with James Fox. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) The Rolling Stones guitarist&#8217;s revealing autobiography. 867LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $8.99 and $15.99.) A Navy Seals operation goes horribly awry. 96EMPIRE OF THE SUMMER MOON, by S.C. Gwynne. (Scribner, $16.) The story of Quanah Parker, the last chief of the Comanches. 10*12BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Vintage, $15.95.) Secrets of distance running from a Mexican Indian tribe. 11349THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads. 125WAR, by Sebastian Junger. (Twelve, $15.99.) The intense lives of American soldiers in a corner of Afghanistan, by the author of &#34;The Perfect Storm.&#34; 1337INSIDE OF A DOG, by Alexandra Horowitz. (Scribner, $16.) The world from a dog&#39;s point of view. 14*20THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $15.95.) The people who saw the real estate crash coming and made billions from their foresight. 1519890 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. (Revell, $13.99.) A minister on the otherworldly experience he had after an accident. 16*138MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) A memoir of one-night stands. 171LAST CALL, by Daniel Okrent. (Scribner, $17.) The rise and fall of Prohibition, with an explanation of why the amendment was ratified and what it was like living under it. 1819TOO BIG TO FAIL, by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Penguin, $18.) The 2008 financial implosion on Wall Street and in Washington, by a New York Times business columnist. 194SUPERFREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) How to apply economic theory to everything: the sequel. 20*32JUST KIDS, by Patti Smith. (Ecco, $16.) The godmother of punk recalls her time with Robert Mapplethorpe and their yearnings for a life in art.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
21. BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
22. FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial)
23. DRIVE, by Daniel H. Pink. (Riverhead)
24. WHAT THE DOG SAW, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little Brown)
25. HAVE A LITTLE FAITH, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion)
26. MAN WITH A PAN, by John Donohue. (Algonquin)
27. HALF THE SKY, by Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn. (Vintage)
28. ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Gallery)
29. ZEITOUN, by Dave Eggers. (Vintage)
30. THE DISAPPEARING SPOON, by Sam Kean. (Back Bay)
31. THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Three Rivers)
32. THE CHECKLIST MANIFESTO, by Atul Gawande. (Picador)
33. SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME, by Ron Hall and Denver Moore with Lynn Vincent. (Nelson)
34. A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
35. THE WAVE, by Susan Casey. (Anchor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (68%); RUNNING (60%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (52%); KEITH RICHARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



111 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, July 3rd 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 3, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 18, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1221HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 246IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 3121MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury) The comedian&#8217;s memoir of one-night stands. 4311BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown) A memoir from the former Saturday Night Live star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 5521UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 676SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his military training and missions, including the battle of Mogadishu in 1993. 71THE ORIGINAL ARGUMENT, by Glenn Beck with Joshua Charles. (Threshold Editions) The Federalists&#8217; case for the Constitution, adapted for the 21st century. 8134THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The historian explores the extensive intellectual legacy that France settled on its 19th-century visitors. 962DEMONIC, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Publishing) The columnist compares the Democratic Party to a mob. 101521THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 1183RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner. (Henry Holt) The financial crisis of 2008, examined with an eye on the individuals responsible. 12126LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central) Handler&#8217;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 13111390 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. (Revell) A minister on the otherworldly experience he had after an accident. 14148STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path, from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 15185AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little Brown) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs, not extraterrestrials. 16177DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (HarperCollins) The singer and showman recounts the meteoric rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith over the last three decades. 1793QUIET STRENGTH, by Tony Dungy with Nathan Whitaker. (Tyndale) A memoir by the first black coach to win a Super Bowl. 18164THOSE GUYS HAVE ALL THE FUN, by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales. (Little, Brown) An oral history of the sports network ESPN. 19103CHOOSING TO SEE, by Mary Beth Chapman and Ellen Vaughn. (Revell) The wife of the singer-songwriter Steven Curtis Chapman describes her life and faith and the death of their young daughter. 20218LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (HarperCollins) After a jungle plane crash in the wilds of New Guinea in 1945, three survivors were caught between headhunters and enemy Japanese. 212421THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 224FROM THIS MOMENT ON, by Shania Twain. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The country singer and songwriter writes of her hardscrabble origins and her rise to fame. 231THE MIRACLE OF FREEDOM, by Chris Stewart and Ted Stewart. (Deseret Book Company) The authors discuss &#34;seven tipping points that saved the world,&#34; including the Battle of Thermopylae, Constantine&#8217;s conversion to Christianity, and the Battle of Britain. 242220---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (HarperCollins) A coming-of-age memoir organized around the musings, purveyed on Twitter, of the author&#8217;s father. 25258LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown) The only survivor of a Navy Seals operation in northern Afghanistan describes the battle, his comrades and his courageous escape.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Penguin Group)
27. ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
28. THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins)
29. THE SECRET KNOWLEDGE, by David Mamet. (Penguin Group)
30. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown)
31. SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME, by Ron Hall and Denver Moore with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson)
32. TOO BIG TO FAIL, by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Penguin Group)
33. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
34. BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Knopf Doubleday)
35. INCOGNITO, by David Eagleman. (Knopf Doubleday)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); HISTORY (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (64%); RUNNING (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); MILITARY TRAINING (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: CHELSEA HANDLER (50%); TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (70%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (52%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (70%); SOMALIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



112 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: We Knew They Got Raises. But This?

BYLINE: By PRADNYA JOSHI

 BODY:
IT turns out that the good times are even better than we thought for American chief executives.
A preliminary examination of executive pay in 2010, based on data available as of April 1, found that the paychecks for top American executives were growing again, after shrinking during the 2008-9 recession.
But that study, conducted for The New York Times by Equilar, an executive compensation data firm based in Redwood City, Calif., was just an early snapshot, and there were even more riches to come. Some big companies had not yet disclosed their executive compensation.
So Sunday Business asked Equilar to run the numbers again. 
Brace yourself.
The final figures show that the median pay for top executives at 200 big companies last year was $10.8 million. That works out to a 23 percent gain from 2009. The earlier study had put the median pay at a none-too-shabby $9.6 million, up 12 percent.
Total C.E.O. pay hasn't quite returned to its heady, prerecession levels -- but it certainly seems headed there. Despite the soft economy, weak home prices and persistently high unemployment, some top executives are already making more than they were before the economy soured.
Pay skyrocketed last year because many companies brought back cash bonuses, says Aaron Boyd, head of research at Equilar. Cash bonuses, as opposed to those awarded in stock options, jumped by an astounding 38 percent, the final numbers show.
Granted, many American corporations did well last year. Profits were up substantially. As a result, many companies are sharing the wealth, at least with their executives. ''We're seeing a lot of that reflected in the pay,'' Mr. Boyd says.
And at a time of so much tumult in the media business, it might be surprising that some executives in media and communications were among the most richly rewarded last year.
The preliminary and final studies put Philippe P. Dauman, the chief executive of Viacom, at the top of the list. Mr. Dauman made $84.5 million last year, after signing a new long-term contract that included one-time stock awards.
Leslie Moonves, of the CBS Corporation, got a 32 percent raise and reaped $56.9 million. Michael White of DirecTV was paid $32.9 million, while Brian L. Roberts of the Comcast Corporation and Robert A. Iger of the Walt Disney Company each received pay packages valued at $28 million.
''Media firms seemed to be paying a lot,'' said Carol Bowie, head of compensation policy development at ISS Governance, which advises large investors on corporate governance issues like proxy votes. ''Media companies in general tend to be high-payers, and they tend to feed off each other.''
Other big payers included oil and commodities companies like Exxon Mobil and a few technology giants like Oracle and I.B.M.
Some of the other highly paid executives on the new list who were not in the April survey are Gregg W. Steinhafel of Target, who had a $23.5 million pay package; Michael E. Szymanczyk of Altria, $20.77 million; and Richard C. Adkerson of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, $35.3 million.
Most ordinary Americans aren't getting raises anywhere close to those of these chief executives. Many aren't getting raises at all -- or even regular paychecks. Unemployment is still stuck at more than 9 percent.
In some ways, chief executives seem to live in a world apart when it comes to pay. As long as shareholders think that the top brass is doing a good job, executives tend to be well paid, whatever the state of the broader economy. And some corporate boards were probably particularly generous in 2010 after a few relatively lean years for their top executives. In other words, some of this was makeup pay.
''What is of more concern to shareholders is that it looks like C.E.O. pay is recovering faster than company fortunes,'' says Paul Hodgson, chief communications officer for GovernanceMetrics International, a ratings and research firm.
According to a report released by GovernanceMetrics in June, the good times for chief executives just keep getting better. Many executives received stock options that were granted in 2008 and 2009, when the stock market was sinking.
Now that the market has recovered from its lows of the financial crisis, many executives are sitting on windfall profits, at least on paper. In addition, cash bonuses for the highest-paid C.E.O.'s are at three times prerecession levels, the report said.
Of course, these sorts of pay figures invariably push the buttons of many ordinary Americans. Yes, workers' 401(k)'s are looking better than they did in some recent years, but many investors still have not recovered from the hit they took during the financial crisis. And, of course, millions are out of work or trying to hold on to their homes -- or both.
And it's not as if most workers are getting fat raises. The average American worker was taking home $752 a week in late 2010, up a mere 0.5 percent from a year earlier. After inflation, workers were actually making less.
On the flip side, some chief executives have consistently taken token salaries -- sometimes, $1 -- choosing instead to rely on their ownership stakes for wealth. These stock riches don't show up on the current pay lists, but they can be huge.
Warren E. Buffett, for instance, saw his stock holdings rise last year by 16 percent, to $46 billion. Other longtime chief executives or founders who are sitting on billions of paper profits include Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon.com and Michael S. Dell, the founder of Dell.
Resurgent executive pay has some corporate watchdogs worried that companies have already forgotten the lessons of the bust. Boards have promised to tie executive pay to company success, but by some measures pay is rising faster than performance. The median pay raise for chief executives last year -- 23 percent -- was roughly in line with the increase in net corporate profits. But it far exceeded the median gain in shareholders' total return, which was 16 percent, as well as the median gain in revenue, which was 7 percent.
FOR the moment, shareholders aren't storming executive suites. And while they received a say on pay under new federal rules last year, their votes are nonbinding. In other words, boards can still do as they please.
Pay specialists say companies are taking a hard look at these votes. Still, only about 1.5 percent of the 200 companies in the Equilar study were rebuffed by their shareholders on pay. A vast majority of the votes passed overwhelmingly, with 80 percent or 90 percent support, according to Mr. Boyd of Equilar.
Mr. Boyd says companies are making an effort to explain their pay plans. ''We saw companies take it very seriously,'' he says of the new rule.
In some respects, the mere possibility that shareholders might reject a proposed pay plan is enough to make corporate executives think again. Ms. Bowie of ISS says that outrageous payouts -- such as so-called tax gross-ups, in which companies cover executives' tax bills on perks like corporate jets -- are becoming rarer.
Disney for instance, eliminated tax gross-ups this year in the face of shareholder ire, she said.
Company directors have the power to rein in runaway executive pay, but it is unclear whether either they or shareholders will do so in 2012. ''It can be done if there is the will,'' Ms. Bowie says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Philippe Dauman of Viacom led the executive pay list in 2010. The median was $10.8 million, up 23 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU1)
Among the executives who registered huge gains in the value of their company stock and options in 2010 were Warren E. Buffett, the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, left, Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle, center, and Jeffrey P. Bezos of Amazon.com. Together, the three men's holdings climbed by more than $13 billion for the year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANINDITO MUKHERJEE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
KIM WHITE/REUTERS)(BU6) CHARTS: Executive Pay, Revisited: Even Higher Than It First Seemed: According to figures provided by Equilar, a firm that tracks compensation data, median pay for chief executives at 200 of the nation's largest companies rose 23 percent last year, much higher than the preliminary figure of 12 percent calculated in early April. Nearly every component of pay was up, including cash bonuses and stock grants. Media executives, in particular, dominated the top of the highest-paid list, with 6 among the top 10.(Sources: Equilar)
Pay Isn't Always Aligned With Performance . . .: Companies have been under pressure to align chief executives' pay to stock performance. But across disparate industries, many top executives were still paid about the same as their peers, regardless of how their companies' shares performed for investors. As a group, media companies outperformed other industries.(Sources: Equilar)
 . . . And the Big Payoff for Some Is in Stock Holdings: Some executives also built their fortunes through holdings in their companies' stock. As the markets rebounded from the 2008 financial crisis, the rising value of executives' shares and stock options added, in some cases, billions of dollars to their net worth. (Sources: Equilar)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (94%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); REAL ESTATE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); HOME PRICES (52%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (80%); CBS CORP (63%); COMCAST CORP (62%); VIACOM INC (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%); CBS (NYSE) (63%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (62%); CCV (NYSE) (62%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (78%); WARREN BUFFETT (59%); ROBERT A IGER (58%); LESLIE MOONVES (58%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (58%); BRIAN L ROBERTS (52%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



113 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
MEXICAN GOVERNOR LEADS CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT
The race for governor in Mexico State, which surrounds Mexico City, appears headed toward a foregone conclusion, with polls showing that the candidate from the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, will win resoundingly. But the bigger winner may be the state's outgoing governor, Enrique Pena Nieto. Analysts say that in passing the job on to a candidate from his party, Mr. Pena Nieto is gathering momentum for his national ambitions. PAGE 6
JAPAN'S NUCLEAR CROSSROADS
Yasushi Furukawa of Saga Prefecture is the first governor to have to decide whether to support Prime Minister Naoto Kan's requests to restart local nuclear reactors, turning him into a bellwether of sorts on Japan's nuclear future. PAGE 4 
E. COLI OUTBREAKS CONTINUE
The E. coli outbreak in Germany, which began in early May, has killed at least 48 people and sickened more than 4,000 others, according to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. The bacteria causes acute diarrhea and, in severe cases, kidney failure. PAGE 8
NEW QUESTIONS FOR YEMEN
A senior Yemeni official with firsthand knowledge of the health of President Ali Abdullah Saleh said that the president would be unable to return to Yemen anytime soon and when he did he would probably be unable to perform his duties. PAGE 10
JORDAN CABINET SHUFFLED
With antigovernment demonstrations growing across Jordan in recent weeks, King Abdullah II approved a cabinet shuffle that brought in a number of new officials, notably the interior minister, but the public's anger over accusations of corruption seemed unlikely to subside. Page 10
NATIONAL
NEW STEP FOR GAY RIGHTS
RAISES OPPOSING BATTLE CRY
Even as gay rights groups cheered New York's adoption of same-sex marriage last week, their opponents called the vote an isolated setback and started planning how to use the specter of New York to rally their troops and fill their coffers for the battles ahead. Less than 24 hours after the New York Senate's vote, made possible by four Republican defections, a leading anti-gay-marriage group started sending out defiant pleas for money. Page 14
A FRESH REPUBLICAN FACE
Nikki Haley of South Carolina is, at 39, the nation's youngest governor, entering office with Tea Party support, and is seen by many as an up-and-coming figure in the Republican Party. She has built her governorship on aggressive budget cutting, a relentless pursuit of job growth and a cheerleader's enthusiasm for a state that often finishes toward the back of the pack in education, economics and health. Page 11
NEW YORK
LOVE AND INHERITANCE:
ANATOMY OF FAMILY STRIFE
The stately apartment where the actress Celeste Holm has lived since 1953 reflects a full and fruitful life, but is now a battlefield. A bitter family battle that has poisoned her relationships with her two sons and exhausted all her other assets, including the trust fund that was supposed to pay her living expenses. Page 21
HUDSON RIVER MARATHON
Marathon swimming, a 1920s sensation, is enjoying a renaissance in New York, where open-water competitions are held almost every summer weekend. Page 20
SPORTS
IN THE N.B.A. LOCKOUT,
LOOKING INTO THE PAST
The last labor dispute the N.B.A. suffered produced some unintended consequences: $30 million contracts for backup centers, trades of retired players and David Stern's infamous beard, to name a few. It is 1998 all over again, except that the owners -- claiming losses of more than $300 million a year -- are more determined than ever to impose absolute cost controls. Page 6
ON THE EDGES OF RACING
Steve Park planned to drive in a Nascar Sprint Cup race at Daytona International Speedway, but plans in auto racing usually call for cash, and lots of it. Park could not raise enough money, so he sat out. This is how it is on the fringes of stock-car racing. Page 9
YANKEES RELIEVER HITS STRIDE
What makes Dave Robertson so tough is his ability to retire left-handed batters, a responsibility that has assumed greater importance because of injuries to Rafael Soriano, Joba Chamberlain and Pedro Feliciano, and the inconsistency of Boone Logan. In 65 at-bats against Robertson, left-handers have struck out 34 times with 10 hits and a .169 slugging percentage. Page 2
OBITUARIES
ROBERT H. WIDMER, 95
He led the design and development of major aircraft like the F-111 ''Aardvark'' and the F-16 ''Fighting Falcon'' as well as the Tomahawk cruise missile, helping to enforce the cold war strategic balance known as mutual assured destruction, seeing lethal airplanes as instruments of peace. Page 20
EDITH FELLOWS, 88
She was a child star of the 1930s, known for playing orphans and urchins but whose own life was more Dickensian than that of any character she portrayed. Page 21
SUNDAY BUSINESS
THE WORLD BANK CONFRONTS
ITS RECENT METAMORPHOSIS
The World Bank, a long-aloof arbiter of global finance, has undergone something of a quiet revolution with the recent crisis in Haiti as a turning point. The World Bank is opening up slowly and sometimes painfully, and it wants the world to know that. Page 1
THE VALLEY HITS THE CITY
San Francisco is offering tax breaks to tech companies that relocate their offices to the city's blighted neighborhoods. Twitter will be the first recipient in the program, and city planners are looking hard at how the in-house cafeterias and other business hallmarks of Silicon Valley are translating to urban settings. Page 3
ROCK AND THE HARD PLACE
Dealing with our nation's gaping budget deficit is going to hurt. So here is a question for policy makers: What would hurt more, raising taxes or reducing spending? Page 4
AUTOMOBILES
AN IMPORT FOR THE PRICE
OF A LOWLY CHAINSAW
Alain Daumas acquired his 1955 Citroen Traction Avant, French for front-wheel drive, from a business associate of his father's, who had accumulated more vintage cars than he knew what to do with. The Citroen was in such dire shape when the man obtained it that it had cost him only a chainsaw. Page 1
ARTS & LEISURE
WRESTLING WITH RECOVERY
IS DEFINITELY NO FAIRY TALE
Stephen Adly Guirgis's lacerating play, ''The ---------- With the Hat,'' makes clear for a couple struggling with addiction that simply putting the cork back in the bottle will not solve everything, David Carr writes. Page 1
MAGAZINE
SEVERE FLOODING COULD BE CALIFORNIA'S NEXT NIGHTMARE
A failing levee system could turn Sacramento into a modern-day Atlantis. Scientists consider Sacramento the most flood-prone city in the nation. PAGE 34
MARRIED, WITH INFIDELITIES
Scandals be damned. The goal of marriage, argues Dan Savage, a devoted husband, proud father and sex columnist, should be stability, not monogamy. PAGE 22
AMONG THE PIGLETS
Once a celebrated painter in New York, Peter Nadin retreated to a life of farming. But he never stopped making art. Mr. Nadin has been farming and painting in the Northern Catskills for more than two decades. PAGE 28
BOOK REVIEW
BRITAIN'S CRUCIAL ROLE IN THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
This new history of Britain's role in the American Civil War examines the battle the Union and the Confederacy waged for English support. PAGE 1
FAITH AND REASON
In a new translation of Aristotle's ''Nicomachean Ethics,'' the authors address the question of modern well-being, arguing that Western civilization's vitality results from the interplay of classical philosophy and biblical revolution, but that these two principles are not adversarial in all respects. Page 16
'PAYING FOR IT'
In this graphic memoir, Chester Brown gives up romance and pursues sex with prostitutes. PAGE 15
EDITORIAL
FEDERAL LAW UNDERMINES PROGRESS ON GAY MARRIAGE
Last month, with almost no fanfare, the federal government canceled the deportation of a Venezuelan man after he married an American man in Connecticut and claimed legal residency as a spouse. But the government did not say that it was formally recognizing their marriage, because it cannot. The Defense of Marriage Act, which ranks with the most overtly discriminatory laws in the nation's history, remains on the books, prohibiting federal recognition of legal same-sex marriages. PAGE 11
UNSUNG HEROES
President Obama should honor the patriots in the government who bravely opposed the Bush administration's torture policies. Worthy candidates include Alberto Mora, a former Navy general counsel who battled against abuses at Guantanamo Bay; and Antonio Taguba, an Army major general who says he was forced to retire after his report on the sadistic treatment of detainees at Abu Ghraib. PAGE 11
A HOUSE IN RUINS
John Coltrane's home in Long Island, where he lived and composed some of his immortal jazz, is crumbling and in need of restoration. PAGE 11
OP-ED
MAUREEN DOWD
What happens in a he-said-she said case, when he's known to be a predator and she's revealed to be a liar? Sunday Review, Page 5
PUBLIC EDITOR
The new Sunday Review reflects a media trend with its tilt toward commentary. Sunday Review, Page 10
ROGER COHEN
A decade from 9/11, New York has prevailed against the ''destroying planes'' foreseen in 1948 by E.B. White. Sunday Review, Page 5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BACTERIA (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); E COLI (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (68%); POISONINGS (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); MARRIAGE (68%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%); NIKKI HALEY (58%); NAOTO KAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (93%); JAPAN (92%); JORDAN (90%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



114 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2120 words

HEADLINE: The Fans Own the Magic

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS and A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
HARRY POTTER'S final battle with Lord Voldemort will hit movie screens on July 15, but that young wizard has already scored a decisive victory where it counts: at the box office, on best-seller lists and in the crowded arena of fantasy-driven popular culture. J. K. Rowling, a single mother when she hatched a series of magical boarding-school novels, has ascended to an Oprah-like level of wealth and influence, while Harry, with more than $6 billion in tickets sold globally, has surpassed James Bond as the top-grossing movie-franchise hero.
Like the books the Harry Potter movies have grown progressively darker and more complex, as the initially stark moral universe of good and evil became increasingly shaded by prickly, often confusing questions of sex and death (including the death in 2002 of Richard Harris, the first Dumbledore, who was replaced by Michael Gambon). The books and movies have fed the imaginations of fans with a richly conceptualized, densely populated world of plucky school kids, giants, dragons, trolls and adult wizards, benign and malevolent, played by the cream of British acting. Meanwhile Harry, Hermione and Ron, as incarnated by Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint, have grown up before our eyes. 
''I was on the train when I suddenly had this basic idea of a boy who didn't know who he was,'' Ms. Rowling once said, explaining the genesis of her creation as lightning hit her and then Harry. In the years since, the books and movies along with all the toys, games and even a Harry Potter theme park have helped show us that in today's multiple-platform media landscape, a movie is no longer necessarily an evening's entertainment but, in the case of those who came of age with Harry, that of a lifetime.
Here we look at what has become a hugely profitable corporate brand, a fan-fueled sensation and one of the biggest entertainment stories of the last decade.
DARGIS In anticipating the first Harry Potter film Anne Collins Smith, then an assistant professor at Susquehanna University in Pennsylvania, peered into her crystal ball and gave dark warning. ''It will take a strong individual indeed to say, 'No, that's not what it looked like inside my head,' and set the movie version aside,'' Dr. Smith said. Worse yet, ''Those who see the movie before reading the books will never have the chance to make their own vision'' to the point that ''for many people it will replace their own imaginations.''
Many millions of movie tickets, innumerable fan sites, wizard rock bands and conferences later, it's indisputable that for many if not most Harry Potter lovers the movies didn't replace their imaginations but instead enlivened and even fired them up. On deviantart.com, for instance, you can download work from a database of thousands upon thousands of fan-generated images of Harry, his friends and enemies from the photorealistic to the broadly caricatured, including anime-style creations with saucer eyes and heart-shaped faces, and what the Japanese call kawaii or cute, for a kind of Hello Kitty Harry confection. Elsewhere there are dirty-girl Hermiones aplenty and surprisingly, er, friendly Harry and Draco liaisons.
SCOTT After the runaway trans-Atlantic success of ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone'' and ''Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets'' in the late 1990s the appearance of each new Harry Potter novel was like the opening of a blockbuster movie, but more festive and less dutiful than such occasions tend to be. At midnight bookstores across the land would be thronged with eager readers with wands and robes, round glasses and temporary lightning-bolt tattoos, and for the next few days, on every bus and park bench, everyone -- schoolchildren, grandmothers, young adults with tattoos that were not temporary -- would be reading the same thing. And then, as the movie versions started to come out, the scene would be repeated in the multiplexes.
This is not the first time a popular series of books has been turned into a successful series of movies, but the overlap between the literary and cinematic versions of the Potter cycle was unusual, and has proven influential. Not every effort to repeat the formula has worked -- the ''Lemony Snicket'' and ''Golden Compass'' franchises never took wing on screen -- but the triumph of the Potter model is reflected in the ''Twilight'' movies and also in the Swedish and soon-to-arrive American versions of Steig Larsson's ''Millennium'' trilogy, which tumbled into theaters while their sources were still jumping off the bookstore shelves. In this millennium, we like to take our stories serially and in multimedia packages.
The Harry Potter movies built on the fervid public enthusiasm for the books and fed back into it, to the extent that it is not quite accurate to call the movies adaptations, or to pursue the usual arguments about what is lost and gained when stories make the transition from words on a page to images on a screen. Remarkably large numbers of people were eager to experience the same stories twice (or more), and if some may have had a preference for Potter in prose over Potter in pictures or vice versa, it seems safe to conclude that the majority was happy to have both.
DARGIS Before the Harry Potter movies started breaking the first of many records, it was perhaps easier to believe that mass culture is something consumers largely experienced top down, like the big infantilized blobs in ''Wall-E,'' unthinkingly gulping whatever they're fed. Harry Potter fans have made it a lot tougher to sell that old-fashioned idea. They have found an astonishment of ways to express their love (and sometimes profit on that adoration) and also at times challenged the supremacy of Warner Brothers, the studio that owns the rights to the movies. From the start the studio had been fierce about protecting its property (in the case of Harry Potter condoms, you can't blame it), but in the process it also stumbled.
One of its roadblocks was Heather Lawver, a Potterhead who at 14 created The Daily Prophet, a fake (now inactive) online school newspaper about all things Potter. A few years later Ms. Lawver herself became news when, in response to Warner Brothers' ham-fisted and -headed bids to shut down fan Web sites, some run by children as young as 11 and 12, she helped start a boycott of Potter merchandise (known as PotterWar), a press-relations stroke of genius (she debated a studio spokesman on ''Hardball'') that threatened to derail the company's strategy of global domination.
''It really got me mad,'' Ms. Lawver said in 2001, months before the release of the first movie, noting that another site creator ''was afraid these lawyers would come banging down her door and take away all her family's money.''
Faced with being cast as a bully on the eve of its latest potential gold mine Warner Brothers backed down as representatives insisted no harm was intended. (''We are not a big, scary corporation,'' one executive said.) Prof. Henry Jenkins of the University of California, an enthusiastic champion of fan power, has framed the fight in near-revolutionary terms, writing on his Web site that PotterWar ''may have been the first successful movement of fans to challenge the rather blanket copyright assertions of the major media producers.'' Certainly it was a striking moment for plugged-in Potterites, yet it's debatable whether the type of fan triumph that Professor Jenkins and others celebrate is as radical as sometimes suggested. Warner Brothers, after all, still owns the film rights.
SCOTT If you asked a roomful of movie critics to name the best Harry Potter movie, the consensus choice would be ''Prisoner of Azkaban'' (2004), directed by Alfonso Cuaron, whose other critically beloved films include the sexy Mexican road movie ''Y Tu Mama Tambien'' and the dystopian thriller ''Children of Men.'' ''Azkaban'' was stamped with Mr. Cuaron's style; it was not only thematically more unsettling than the first two movies (both directed by Chris Columbus), but also visually stranger and more artful.
Perhaps for that reason it is generally the least liked movie among hard-core Potterites, which is to say those viewers whose devotion to the characters and the story trumps their interest in the art of cinema for its own sake. Critics have tended to assess each film on its own merits as an individual work, which is perfectly reasonable -- it's our job, after all -- but also a bit beside the point, just as the demurrals of literary critics who find fault with Ms. Rowling's prose style or sense of narrative economy are both right and fundamentally out of touch.
From the start the appeal of the Potter cycle has been its generous dispensation of narrative pleasure. You might find a particular installment or character or series of incidents especially exciting or vaguely disappointing, but you would not be fully satisfied until the whole thing was complete, until you had plumbed the mystery of Harry Potter's origins and witnessed the resolution of his fate.
DARGIS More than a decade after the end of PotterWar, the ideology if perhaps not the utopian spirit of media consumers asserting their voices has become business as usual for media companies, which insist it's all about you you you and not them them them. It's inspiring when fans like Ms. Lawver assert that they too have a claim on favorite books and movies, even those owned by corporations, just as there's something hilarious and maybe cathartic about rather grown-up interventions like ''Strawberry Yields,'' a bit of ''fanfic'' by one ''Dementor Delta'' featuring Harry, Professor Snape and some fruit. (''Potter had a fondness for bananas that was almost obscene.'') But just because a media giant is having a party doesn't mean you're actually invited.
The idea that media consumers may one day be able to siphon media power for our own purposes, as Professor Jenkins has suggested (if we can get around those pesky copyright laws), remains open to debate. As is the idea that cultural production is now a free-flowing two-way street because today's fans, armed with laptops and social media, can appropriate mass culture in a more immersive fashion (i.e., online). The truth is that culture has never strictly been a one-way street, even in the pre-Internet dark ages. For instance, back in Hollywood's golden age stars could be deemed box office poison by the front office because audiences voted each time they bought a ticket. It may be that instead of real choices, consumers now have just a lot of choices: thousands of television channels instead of a handful, and an entire Harry Potter media universe instead of a few rippingly good books and movies.
SCOTT The staggered appearance of novels and films seems, in retrospect, to have been calculated, with almost diabolical brilliance, to maximize the audience. The first cadre of 9-year-olds who read ''Sorcerer's Stone'' and ''Chamber of Secrets'' were primed to line up for the film adaptations of those books, as the movies prepared new readers for the fourth book, ''Goblet of Fire,'' and so on. Young people -- those born after 1990 -- were the vanguard and the core audience, and even if Harry had not also appealed to their parents, grandparents and older siblings, the Potter fan base represents a fairly significant sample of the world's population.
And what has Harry given them? The movies have provided a showcase for the art of acting. Some great professionals -- Alan Rickman, Imelda Staunton, Maggie Smith, David Thewlis and so on and so on -- have demonstrated both high seriousness and a fine sense of play, and Ralph Fiennes has proven that it can be done without a nose. And we have watched potential movie stars of the future blossom before our eyes. More generally, and perhaps more profoundly, we have immersed ourselves in a world of grave danger and relentless evil that is make-believe enough not to bleed into our own messy Muggle reality. The adults in the audience have slid back into the breathless, compulsive readerly absorption (and cinematic enthrallment) of childhood, while our children have, with equal breathlessness, leaned forward into the complexity and exhilaration of growing up. We can all feel, under the spell of these stories, as if we were in full possession of our powers.
Correction: July 17, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An essay on July 3 about the cultural meaning of the final Harry Potter movie misidentified the university where Henry Jenkins, a professor of communications, journalism and cinematic arts, teaches. He is a professor at the University of Southern California, not at the University of California.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, CENTER, JAAP BUITENDIJK/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
OTHER FILM STILLS FROM WARNER BROTHERS. CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT, TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEVIN KOLCZYNSKI/REUTERS
KEITH BEDFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GETTY IMAGES
CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR1)
Mixing homemade and official versions of Harry: above, fans in costume
at right above, Hogwarts Castle at the Harry Potter theme park in Florida
right, Daniel Radcliffe in ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TRACI WHITE/DAILY NEWS-RECORD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JAAP BUITENDIJK/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)
Harry Potter stamps issued by the Royal Mail show the British covers of the books, top
J. K. Rowling, above, with fans at the official start of the Pottermore Web site
above right, ''Deathly Hallows, Part 1''
below, a scene from the final installment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROYAL MAIL, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
SUZANNE PLUNKETT/REUTERS
JAAP BUITENDIJK/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES
 WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)(AR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); FILM (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (79%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (71%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (79%); DANIEL RADCLIFFE (74%); EMMA WATSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

TITLE: Harry Potter (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2011



115 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: The Cousins' War

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT. 
Geoffrey Wheatcroft's books include ''The Strange Death of Tory England'' and ''Yo, Blair!'' He is writing a book about the reputation and posthumous cult of Winston Churchill.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
A WORLD ON FIRE
Britain's Crucial Role in the American Civil War
By Amanda Foreman
Illustrated. 958 pp. Random House. $35.
Was it a civil war twice over? Not only did the ''war between the states'' divide the American people, it sundered the larger English-speaking community stretching across the Atlantic. The conflict was followed with consuming interest by the British, it affected them directly, many of them fought in it -- and it split them into two camps, just as it did the Americans.
Now that Americans are taught that the war was a noble conflict waged by Lincoln and the forces of light against misguided and contumacious Southerners, it's especially valuable to be reminded that this was far from how all the English saw it at the time. To be sure, almost no Englishman defended slavery, long since abolished in the British Empire. The British edition of ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' had sold an astonishing million copies, three times its American sales, and the Royal Navy waged a long campaign against the slave trade: during Prime Minister Gordon Brown's visit to the White House in March 2009, President Obama was presented with a pen holder carved from the wood of one of the ships that conducted that campaign. 
But while some English politicians, like the radical John Bright and the Whig Duke of Argyll, ardently supported the North, plenty sided with the Confederacy. They even included W. E. Gladstone, on his long journey from youthful Tory to ''the people's William,'' adored by the masses in his later years. Apart from sympathy with the underdog, many Englishmen believed that the South had a just claim of national self-determination.
As Obama remembered to say at Buckingham Palace recently, a large part of the American population claims ancestry from British immigrants, great numbers of them arriving throughout the 19th century. Plenty of those took part in the war, and they were joined by more volunteers who came just for the fight, on one side or the other. The extraordinary cast portrayed in ''A World on Fire,'' by Amanda Foreman -- who is also the author of ''Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire'' -- extends from men who fled England to escape poverty to aristocratic Union officers like Major John Fitzroy de Courcy, later Lord Kingsale, a veteran of the Crimea, not to mention Colonel Sir Percy Wyndham, a soldier of fortune whose knighthood was actually Italian. Some, like the Welshman Henry Morton Stanley, even managed to fight for both sides.
Then there were the reporters, like Frank Vizetelly of The Illustrated London News and, most notably, William Howard Russell of The Times of London, who had become famous covering the Crimean War and reporting on the activities of Florence Nightingale. (In an odd conjunction, Foreman says that ''Russell was the ideal choice. . . . Overeating and excessive drinking were his chief vices.'' This is sometimes said of journalists, but rarely by way of commendation.)
Such eyewitnesses provide a wealth of vivid description -- and here is the one drawback of this thoroughly researched and well-written but exceedingly long book. The presence of so many Englishmen means that Foreman can too easily slip away from ''Britain's crucial role'' to a general history of the war and its every battle. But there truly is no shortage of such histories, and we have all often enough vicariously supped full of the horrors of Antietam and Fredericksburg.
What for American readers will be a more riveting -- because unfamiliar -- tale comes whenever Foreman turns from the patriotic gore to her true subject of the British and the war. While guns blazed, another battle was being waged, for English hearts and minds, at both the elite and popular levels. From Fort Sumter on, the London government was in a quandary, and so was Lord Lyons, who had the bad luck to be sent as minister to Washington shortly before the war began (the British representative was not yet an ambassador, of whom there were then very few, although not just three, as Foreman thinks).
Lyons carried out his difficult task with patience and courtesy. On the one hand, Southern politicians threatened that if London did not recognize the sovereignty of the Confederate States, the cotton trade would be cut off, driving England to economic collapse and revolution. On the other, the Union administration warned that such recognition could lead to war. In the event, London toyed with recognizing independence, and angered the North quite enough by acknowledging the South's belligerent status.
Both sides had agents hard at work in England. Charles Francis Adams, scion of a famous Boston dynasty, was sent as American minister to the Court of St. James's. He did as well as he could, although it didn't help that he hated small talk, drinking and dancing, and that, as his son Henry said, ''he doesn't like the bother and fuss of entertaining and managing people who can't be reasoned with,'' which might be considered a definition of any diplomat's job.
What nearly did take Washington and London to war was the principle of freedom of the seas. To make his case in London, Jefferson Davis dispatched two Confederate commissioners in November 1861 aboard the Trent, a British mail packet. But the electrifying news came that crewmen from the U.S.S. San Jacinto had boarded the ship near Cuba and seized the two.
''Have these Yankees then gone completely crazy?'' Friedrich Engels asked his colleague Karl Marx, who himself wrote a good deal about the Civil War. Taking ''political prisoners'' in this way, Engels thought, was ''the clearest casus belli there can be. The fellows must be sheer fools to land themselves in war with England.''
Despite this provocation, war did not follow. Other Confederate envoys reached London, and many Englishmen remained susceptible to the Southern claim. An unlikely British best seller was ''The American Union,'' written by James Spence, a Liverpool businessman who had traveled widely in America. Although he was scarcely disinterested -- Liverpool had prospered in the slave trade and then by cotton -- he argued plausibly that North and South were so different that enforced union was futile. And he held, not so implausibly either, that since slavery was doomed in any case, it was better that it should be ended without violence. This was taken up by John Delane, the editor of The Times, who maintained that the war was a contest for Southern ''independence'' against Northern ''empire.''
Still the Union blockade of the South continued, and many English ships continued breaking it or trying to; Wilmington, N.C., to Bermuda was one favorite route. Meanwhile, the Confederate government clandestinely commissioned warships from English shipyards. Most famous of these was the Alabama, built by Laird & Sons. The intended purpose of the ship was obvious, as Adams's Liverpool consul told him, and as the London government belatedly admitted. But the Alabama escaped from under official noses in July 1862 to begin a devastating career raiding Northern ships, to the fury of Washington.
As if that rage weren't enough, Lyons had to deal with the problem of British subjects caught up in the fighting. Both sides treated prisoners of war harshly. Of the 26,000 Confederate soldiers held over the course of the war at Camp Douglas near Chicago, more than 6,000 died, and at one point the prisoners there included 300 who claimed to be British subjects. They pleaded for Lyons's intervention, but there was little he could do. One of the prisoners was the deplorable Stanley, who adroitly solved the problem by switching gray uniform for blue, unconcerned with politics: as he said, ''there were no blackies in Wales.''
A succession of Southern victories further encouraged English sympathy for the South. In late 1862 Lord Hartington, subsequently a cabinet minister, and nearly prime minister, visited both North and South (it was surprisingly easy to cross from one to the other), at first proclaiming his neutrality. But in Virginia he met Jefferson Davis, as well as the modest and agreeable Robert E. Lee, and was persuaded that the South was fighting virtuously for her rights. Hartington couldn't pretend that blacks were flourishing, but then ''they are not dirtier or more /uncomfortable-looking than Irish laborers'' (an unhappy comparison so soon after the great famine, and from a man whose family owned huge estates in Ireland).
In its later stages, the war saw Southern terrorist conspiracies initiated from Canadian soil, which further inflamed the North. But English sympathy for the South lingered up until Lee surrendered at Appomattox in April 1865. Then, within days, came the shattering news that Lincoln had been assassinated. All at once, ''newspapers that had routinely criticized the president during his lifetime,'' Foreman writes, ''rushed to praise him.'' There were some wonderfully hypocritical about-faces, one from The Times, but best of all from Punch. Having just included Lincoln with Napoleon III in a gallery of April Fools, the magazine now hailed him as ''a true-born king of men.''
Not the least absorbing part of Foreman's story comes after the war. Stanley was hired by The New York Herald and set off on his African journey to find Dr. Livingstone, before returning to England, a seat in Parliament and a knighthood. That fascinating figure Judah Benjamin, the Jewish lawyer who served as Confederate secretary of state, fled to London, where he became a barrister and published ''Benjamin on Sales,'' a commercial law textbook that made him rich.
No American politician was now more vehemently Anglophobic than Senator Charles Sumner, who continued to denounce England, and whose verbal violence delayed a settlement of the Alabama dispute. His great rival, William Henry Seward, Lincoln's secretary of state, also turned up the heat, demanding the Bahamas in recompense for the Alabama's depredations, although he had further designs on Canada, as so many Americans did.
In the end, the Alabama question was settled admirably, by jaw-jaw rather than war-war, as Churchill might have said, when an arbitration tribunal meeting in Geneva awarded large damages against Great Britain. The London government paid without complaint, inaugurating a period of comparative harmony, until /Anglo-American war nearly broke out again in 1895 over an obscure Venezuelan boundary dispute.
Altogether Foreman's remarkable book should be a caution against one foolish phrase. A relationship, no doubt -- but ''special''?

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review on July 3 about ''A World on Fire: Britain's Crucial Role in the American Civil War,'' by Amanda Foreman, misstated the occasion upon which President Obama was presented with a pen holder carved from the wood of a historic ship involved in the Royal Navy's long campaign against the slave trade. It was during Prime Minister Gordon Brown's visit to the White House in March 2009, not during Obama's ''first visit to Downing Street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An illustration in Punch on Sept. 28, 1861 , depicted the North and South as a mismatched couple. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''A WORLD ON FIRE'')(BR10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFFREY SMITH)(BR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); NAVIES (78%); SLAVERY (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BESTSELLERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); WRITERS (60%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (88%); UKRAINE (70%)

TITLE: World on Fire, A: Britain's Crucial Role in the American Civil War (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011



116 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2568 words

HEADLINE: Cracking Open the World Bank

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
THE Piper PA-31 Navajo took off into the sultry Miami morning and streaked southward toward the Caribbean. High over Haiti, the cameras inside began to snap.
Behind this reconnaissance mission was, of all things, a financial institution: the World Bank, symbol of globalization and, to many, the hubris of wealthy nations.
But this was hardly some clandestine operation. On the contrary, the aerial photographs taken that January morning in 2010, shortly after a powerful earthquake leveled much of Port-au-Prince, were soon uploaded to the Web for all to see, along with an invitation to help World Bank specialists assess the damage and figure out how to aid Haiti.
The appeal marked a radical departure for the often close-to-the-vest World Bank, which, like its brother, the International Monetary Fund, has been called everything from arrogant to inept. The World Bank, you see, wants the world to know that it is finally opening up, albeit slowly and, at times, a bit painfully. 
The I.M.F. has grabbed the hot headlines lately, having become a tabloid fixture after its leader, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was accused of sexually assaulting a housekeeper in a Midtown Manhattan hotel. That allegation began unraveling on Friday, when prosecutors themselves questioned the victim's credibility. Not that Mr. Strauss-Kahn is going back to his old job; last week, the fund named Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister, as its next leader.
But while the I.M.F. is busy with scandal and the debt crisis now shaking Europe, officials at the World Bank's headquarters here are confronting some existential questions, including the big one: What exactly are we doing here?
The World Bank's traditional role has been to finance specific projects that foster economic development, whereas the I.M.F.'s goal is to safeguard the global monetary system. But many people, particularly in the developing world, have long questioned whether the economic prescriptions that these two lofty institutions hand down from Washington -- essentially: liberalize, privatize and deregulate -- have done anything but advance the interests of wealthy nations like the United States. That the I.M.F. is now championing deeply unpopular austerity measures for Greece, where street protests continued last week, only sharpens that point.
So it might come as a surprise that the president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick, a career diplomat and member of the Republican foreign-policy elite, argues that the most valuable currency of the World Bank isn't its money -- it is its information.
Created in 1944 and, by custom, headed by an American, the World Bank initially helped finance the reconstruction of war-torn Europe. Since then, it has extended many trillions in loans for a wide variety of projects, be they institutions like schools and hospitals, infrastructure like roads or, controversially, environmentally unfriendly projects like coal-fired power plants and hydroelectric dams. Along the way the World Bank, like the I.M.F., has tinkered with entire economies, sometimes with disastrous results.
Yet the Haiti flights -- which cost about the same as a World Bank report -- were the harbinger of a quiet revolution now gripping this aloof institution.
More than 600 engineers in 21 countries analyzed the data collected over Haiti, and their conclusions -- essentially what to rebuild and where -- have since been used by the Haitian government, relief organizations, companies and myriad others.
''It was like the cowboy West in terms of the boundaries of the project and what we were able to do,'' says Stuart P. D. Gill, a computational cosmologist and project coordinator for the bank's disaster reduction and recovery labs.
Long regarded as a windowless ivory tower, the World Bank is opening its vast vault of information. True, the bank still lends roughly $57 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30. But it is increasingly competing for influence and power with Wall Street, national governments and smaller regional development banks, who have as much or more money to offer. It is no longer the only game in town.
And so Mr. Zoellick, 57, is wielding knowledge -- lots of it. For more than a year, the bank has been releasing its prized data sets, currently giving public access to more than 7,000 that were previously available only to some 140,000 subscribers -- mostly governments and researchers, who pay to gain access to it.
Those data sets contain all sorts of information about the developing world, whether workaday economic statistics -- gross domestic product, consumer price inflation and the like -- or arcana like how many women are breast-feeding their children in rural Peru.
It is a trove unlike anything else in the world, and, it turns out, highly valuable. For whatever its accuracy or biases, this data essentially defines the economic reality of billions of people and is used in making policies and decisions that have an enormous impact on their lives.
Mr. Zoellick says the bank's newfound openness is part of a push to embrace competition, both internally and externally, as it tries to reduce poverty and foster economic development.
In short, the World Bank, long synonymous with Washington elitism, is taking steps to ''democratize development economics,'' to borrow a phrase from Mr. Zoellick, who is leading what many insiders regard as an assault on the bank's power and prestige.
''We do not have a monopoly on the answers,'' he said in a speech at Georgetown University last fall. ''For too long, prescriptions have flowed one way.''
ROBERT ZOELLICK folds his long, lean frame onto a couch in his 12th-floor office in the World Bank headquarters.
When a visitor asks where she should sit, Mr. Zoellick pats his leg and says, ''Anywhere but here.'' Then he smiles, pats the cushion beside him, and adds, ''Or here.'' He then points next door to the I.M.F. headquarters.
It is a joke -- not particularly P.C. -- in reference to Mr. Strauss-Kahn and the legal maelstrom up in New York.
Joking aside, Mr. Zoellick speaks with an ambassadorial gravitas -- not surprising, given that he spent most of his career as a United States diplomat.
Mr. Zoellick came to the job in July 2007, replacing Paul D. Wolfowitz, who resigned after a long string of controversies then ended in a scandal about his relationship with an employee.
A lawyer by training, Mr. Zoellick has made the rounds in Washington, particularly in Republican circles. In the 1980s, at the Treasury Department and the White House, he advised President George H. W. Bush. In the 1990s, he worked at the mortgage giant Fannie Mae, today a potent symbol of all that went wrong in the mortgage business.
Later, as the United States trade representative for President George W. Bush, he was a vocal advocate of free trade. Later still, at the State Department, under Condoleezza Rice, he advocated the war with Iraq and was viewed as an architect of the administration's China policy. He then cooled his heels briefly as a managing director at Goldman Sachs.
Now, he is essentially telling the World Bank's 10,000 employees that he no longer considers their institution to be at the center of the development universe.
''As opposed to some imperious bureaucracy in Washington, we're making things open and accessible to people,'' he says. ''That makes for better performance, it makes for a more open system, it makes for people having a different attitude about the World Bank.''
To some World Bank insiders, this amounts to a declaration of war on their decades-old culture, a war that began when Mr. Zoellick arrived and instituted a daily 8:30 a.m. meeting of senior executives -- ''a shock to some of the people involved,'' he recalls.
''It's not been bloody, but it's not been easy, either,'' says Sanjay Pradhan, vice president of the World Bank Institute, a unit that advises and counsels governments, and that Mr. Zoellick has designated as his strike force in the fight for greater transparency.
He is not the first World Bank leader to struggle to match its practices to its principles. The bank, after all, has had an open-information policy for four decades. James D. Wolfensohn, who ran the bank from 1995 to 2005 and was beloved by employees, even called it the ''Knowledge Bank,'' and during his tenure, it spent $280 million to improve the way it shares information with its staff, client governments and organizations.
But by its own account, the World Bank failed to embed that concept of openness in its own culture, despite significant improvements in technology and tools for sharing information.
''Senior management can announce grand strategies and reorganizations, but it must rely on middle management at the bank to execute them,'' says David Ian Shaman, a former World Bank official. ''Middle management is composed of fiefdoms that are preserved by maintaining the status quo and so has little incentive to implement change.''
In a book titled ''The World Bank Unveiled: Inside the Revolutionary Struggle for Transparency,'' Mr. Shaman chronicled his battle during the Wolfensohn era to webcast things like internal policy debates. Bank insiders worried that his Web service, called B-SPAN, would open the bank to criticism and reduce its authority.
''The cultural norm of the bank is to hoard information, and when it does release information, it is either perfect or choreographed for delivery to a specific audience,'' Mr. Shaman says.
In 2004, for instance, B-SPAN was initially barred from taping a speech given by a development economist, Hernando de Soto, at an event to inaugurate a new policy on information access.
''I was told it would be too controversial,'' Mr. Shaman recalls. The video ultimately was made but, like B-SPAN itself, it was quietly mothballed when he left the bank a year later.
DAVID ROODMAN, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, has had his own struggles with the World Bank. But as a researcher, he says he understands reluctance among World Bank officials to throw open the doors. The bank's researchers work hard to collect data. If it appears online, they may lose a chance to mine it for their own research papers, and thus lose money and prestige.
''It's the capital basis of your world -- and if you share what you've done and people find mistakes, what's in it for you?'' Mr. Roodman says.
People outside the World Bank are eager for its information. Its newly released data -- from economic stats to numbers on landmines -- has attracted more than 4.5 million unique views. Indeed, more people come to its Web site looking for data than anything else.
''I'm astonished by the number of people apparently just waiting for our data to become free,'' says Shaida Badiee, director of the bank's economic development data group. ''I had no idea how big a deal this was going to be.''
Mr. Zoellick says that he understands his employees' worries but that opening analysis and research to public scrutiny will lead to fewer mistakes. ''There will be, I'm sure over a series of years, bad stories that come out as a result of this, and if you're part of the bad stories, it's probably not going to be something you're going to like,'' he says. ''But my view is that it is far better for the institution and its health to be open.''
One day last spring, in the bank's sunlit atrium, Mr. Zoellick's team doled out prizes for a contest called Apps for Development. Software developers worldwide had submitted Web applications based on the bank's data.
The atrium is the bank's agora, home to shows and presentations, and people often arrive in national dress for big events.
But that day, the most exotic people were young developers like Frank van Cappelle, a Dutch national who is a doctoral candidate at the Melbourne Graduate School of Education in Australia. His app, StatPlanet, lets people explore more than 3,000 World Bank economic indicators with interactive maps and graphics. It won the $15,000 first prize.
One finalist was an app to help pregnant mothers use their mobile phones to find World Bank data about maternal health in their countries and languages. Another was a game designed to increase awareness of deforestation.
Mr. van Cappelle says the contest encouraged people to make sense of the bank's information. ''There's a lot of data out there right now locked up in databases,'' he says, ''and I think it requires apps like this one and some other apps that have been developed to unlock that prison.''
The World Bank promoted the contest partly to remind its own employees that the old barriers are coming down.
''You know, we could have had a hundred smart people sitting here for a year and never come up with a lot of that stuff,'' Mr. Zoellick says. The bank, he says, is essentially widening the circle of people it can brainstorm with.
Having created models for open-sourcing and crowd-sourcing, the bank is now moving toward mash-ups. A new Mapping for Results program offers interactive maps pinpointing locations of almost 3,000 bank projects in more than 16,000 places worldwide. Links open up pages with information about each project, and users can add overlays that show, say, where infant mortality is highest to see whether the bank's work in those areas matches the need.
The program is sensitive because it involves releasing data provided by client governments and others, but the hope is that it will prompt these parties to link their own data on economic and social development to the site or otherwise make it available.
THE Swedish government, a big public supporter of development projects, has followed suit with a prototype, a Web site with information about where it spends its aid money and the impact its spending has had. ''The goal is to achieve as effective poverty reduction as possible,'' the Swedish government said this year in announcing the effort. ''To achieve this goal, development cooperation must be opened up to transparency and ideas from others.''
Next week, Kenya, too, will open a Web site giving access to data that, until now, has existed largely in books on the shelves of various ministries. Software developers are already playing with it -- seeking patterns like whether there is any correlation between the government's spending on schools and students' test scores, literacy and matriculation.
''The World Bank has made it easier with what it is doing with open data,'' says Bitange Ndemo, Kenya's permanent secretary for information.
The broader release of such data will enable more ''scientific'' policy-making, cut down on corruption in Kenya and engage more people in government by empowering them with knowledge they can use to challenge political leaders, he says.
Asked if there would be resistance to public dissemination of government data, Dr. Ndemo said transparency was inevitable.
Information is valuable, he says, and people will find a way to get it: ''This is one of those things, like mobile phones and the Internet, that you cannot control.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the opening of the World Bank's vast storehouse of data misstated the amount of the bank's lending. It was $57 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30 (an unaudited figure), not $170 billion. The article also misstated the age of the bank's president, Robert B. Zoellick. He is 57, not 58.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We're making things open and accessible to people,'' says Robert B. Zoellick, the World Bank president. The bank's Washington building is at top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDRE PENNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU6) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY MARC PHARES/EPIC STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); SCANDALS (71%); EURO CRISIS (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (66%); DEREGULATION (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (72%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (53%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (78%); GREECE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011



117 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: New Battle Over Fuel Efficiency

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
ACCORDING to numerous reports, the Obama administration has advanced a federal fuel efficiency fleet average standard of 56.2 m.p.g. for 2025. But while an official number from the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is not expected until September, the reported standard has prompted intense jockeying among automakers and environmental groups and has again put a focus on California. 
In 2009, the state tabled its clean-car mandates to adopt a fleet-average standard set by the federal government for 2012-16. That standard called for a gradual strengthening of Corporate Average Fuel Economy, known as CAFE, that would culminate in a 35.5 m.p.g. fleet-wide requirement in 2016.
The next phase of the federal program would cover 2017 through 2025. Automakers, citing the challenge and expense of building large numbers of electric cars and charging stations, want fuel efficiency and greenhouse emissions standards to be slowly phased in over the period. The companies also want the next phase of the White House's efficiency initiative to include a midterm program review.
Meanwhile, environmental groups want a more rapid ramp-up and are concerned about possible loopholes in the midterm review. If the fleetwide benchmarks come in below expectations, the groups pledge to push California to revive its separate clean car mandates, a prospect that has few fans in the White House or among automakers.
''It's more than just wanting to have California at the table for the current negotiations; we want to see California's goals fully integrated into a single national program,'' said Gloria Bergquist, a vice president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an advocacy group representing 12 automakers. ''We want to avoid a patchwork of different regulations, and that's why we supported the integrated 2012-16 program.'' Dan Becker, the director of the Safe Climate Campaign at the Center for Auto Safety, frames a California-led retreat from the looming federal standard in blunter terms.
''California is the shotgun in the closet, because it has the right to set its own emission standards, and 12 states and the District of Columbia follow its lead,'' he said.
Greg Martin, a spokesman for General Motors, said in a statement that G.M. was committed to a standard ''that moves the needle but doesn't wreck a customer's bank account or the industry's resurgence in the process.''
Stanley Young, a spokesman for California's Air Resources Board, says the state has the power to go its own way.
''We retain the authority under the Clean Air Act to set stricter than federal standards,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''We would need an E.P.A. waiver to enforce our state regulations. But until the Bush administration denied us such a waiver, we had never been turned down for one in over four decades.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



118 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; QUIZ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Wait Wait ... Don't Tell Me!

 BODY:
NPR's ''Wait Wait ... Don't Tell Me!'' is heard weekends on public radio stations across the country. (npr.org/programs/wait-wait-dont-tell-me/)
1. Michele Bachmann went to Waterloo, Iowa, last week to begin her presidential campaign, and said she shared the ''spirit'' of Waterloo's famous resident. Who? 
A. Napoleon Bonaparte
B. The serial killer John Wayne Gacy
C. Benny Andersson, of the band Abba
D. Professor Harold Hill, of ''The Music Man''
2. According to leaked documents, a prominent international organization wants to rebrand itself with a new name. Who is it?
A. International House of Pancakes
B. The Shriners
C. The Jonas Brothers
D. Al Qaeda
3. Philips has introduced a new luxury item designed expressly for men. What?
A. The Man Iron
B. The Back Hair Blow-Dryer
C. Man Kittens
D. Bikini Waxing Kit for Him
4. Greece is facing a severe debt crisis and is under intense pressure from the rest of Europe and the I.M.F. to raise money. But they have a plan; they're going to do what?
A. Invade Bulgaria and take their stuff.
B. Declare bankruptcy and rename itself ''New Greece.''
C. Sell their valuables.
D. Sell naming rights to historic sites.
5. In what is seen by some as another crack in the glass ceiling, women will have their own separate contest in what kind of sporting event, this July 4?
A. Beard growing
B. Competitive eating
C. Number of days without showering
D. High volume cat-calling
6. For years scientists have been working to make robots more lifelike, and a man in London is making great strides. His robot may not have human emotions, but it does have a simulated human what?
A. Unibrow
B. Armpit
C. Beer gut
D. Badonkadonk
7. A new study highlighting yet another vast difference between men and women proves that men are much more likely than women to do what?
A. Floss
B. Scrapbook
C. Get struck by lightning
D. Give birth
Answers
1. (B) ''John Wayne was from Waterloo, Iowa,'' Ms. Bachmann said in an interview with Fox News. ''That's the kind of spirit that I have, too.'' But John Wayne the actor was from Winterset, Iowa. John Wayne Gacy, the serial killer, lived in Waterloo for many years. She shrugged off the error.
2. (D) Al Qaeda. In documents captured from his Pakistani compound, Osama bin Laden complained about his terrorist organization's image, and suggested changing its name to Taifat al-Tawhed Wal-Jihad, which roughly translates to ''I Can't Believe It's Not Terrorism.''
3. (A) The Man Iron is a 2,400-watt iron that ''exudes masculinity, resembling a premium sports car more than a conventional iron.''
4. (C) It's like any neighborhood yard sale, except here a quarter gets you the Parthenon. The idea is to curb their debt by privatizing parts of the country.
5. (B) Competitive eating. For years, women have engorged themselves alongside men in Nathan's Famous International Hot Dog Eating Contest, but were constantly upstaged by males, who are naturally stronger and more disgusting. Now the playing field has been leveled so women will have an equal opportunity to be repulsive.
6. (B) Armpit. The interest of Kevin Grennan, a British design student, in stinky robots led him to create a robotic sweating armpit. The theory goes, if you're being operated on by a surgical robot, its familiar human scent will make you feel more at ease.
7. (C) Get struck by lightning. According to accuweather.com, 82 percent of people who are struck by lightning are men. Why? Well in the words of one expert, ''Women Are from Mars, Men Are Dumb.'' For example, if the sky becomes filled with dark clouds and deadly electric bolts, women will stop playing golf and go inside.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (79%); PUBLIC RADIO (79%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); WOMEN (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CATS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); DEBT CRISIS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); HISTORIC SITES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); INTERNATIONAL HOUSE OF PANCAKES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); JOE JONAS (55%); NICK JONAS (55%); KEVIN JONAS (55%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (78%); GREECE (70%); BULGARIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



119 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: In a Landslide, Thais Pick Party Of Exiled Leader

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS and THOMAS FULLER; Seth Mydans reported from Bangkok, and Thomas Fuller from Chiang Mai, Thailand. Poypiti Amatatham contributed reporting from Chiang Mai.

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- The party of the fugitive former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra won an overwhelming victory in a parliamentary election on Sunday that could turn Thai politics on its head and roll back the results of a coup that ousted Mr. Thaksin almost five years ago.
In a contest that was seen as a referendum on Thailand's recent turmoil, the Pheu Thai party, headed by Mr. Thaksin's youngest sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, 44, appeared headed for an absolute majority of the 500-seat Parliament. With 98 percent of the votes counted late Sunday night, her party won a projected 264 seats. 
The governing Democrat Party won just 160 seats, and Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva conceded defeat.
Ms. Yingluck, a businesswoman with no political experience, was selected to head the party by her brother, who called her his ''clone.'' She proved to be a brilliant campaigner in the election, which will give Thailand, a major American ally in Southeast Asia and one of the region's most important economies, its first female prime minister.
The vote is a vindication for Mr. Thaksin, 61, a populist champion of Thailand's long-marginalized rural poor, who was elected prime minister twice, in 2001 and 2005, and removed in a coup in September 2006.
''I believe all sides have to respect the decision of the people,'' he said Sunday, speaking to a Thai television station from Dubai, where he lives, evading a conviction for abuse of power. ''If any country doesn't respect the decisions of its people, there's no way it is going to find peace.''
The vote had broader resonance as well, part of a rebalancing of Thailand's hierarchical society that so far has played out in the streets, challenging the elite establishment and giving more voice to the poor.
''This is a slap in the face to the establishment for what they've done since the military coup in 2006,'' said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University. ''This is a new Thailand that they must learn to live with.''
He added: ''This whole election is all about the awakened voices. These people discovered that they can actually have access and be connected to the system.''
The Pheu Thai party is supported by many of the ''red shirt'' protesters, representing the rural and urban poor, who are committed to Mr. Thaksin and staged a two-month rally that paralyzed parts of Bangkok a year ago.
The Democrat party, led by Mr. Abhisit, is the party of the establishment, including royalists, old-money elite and high-ranking members of the military, and is at the top of a traditional hierarchical social and political system in Thailand. A military assault crushed the red-shirt protests in confrontations that killed about 90 people in April and May of last year.
A major challenge for Pheu Thai is to reach an accommodation with the politically powerful military, which ousted Mr. Thaksin, supported the Democrats and battled with the red shirts. In the near term, its reaction to the election could shape the outcome, and rumors of a possible coup circulated during the campaign.
Sonthi Boonyaratglin, the general who led the 2006 coup, created his own political party and won two seats, including one for himself. He said Sunday that he was ready to work with Pheu Thai.
Ms. Yingluck said Sunday she was in discussions about forming a coalition with a small regional party, Chart Thai Pattana. That alliance would add 19 seats to a Pheu Thai government. She also left the door open for a wider coalition.
When the leaders of the 2006 coup returned power to the electorate in 2007, a party supported by Mr. Thaksin won an overwhelming victory, and the vote Sunday shows that his political power continues.
Mr. Thaksin won the loyalty of the poor as the first prime minister to address their needs, wooing them with populist programs including almost-free health care, debt moratoriums, support for farmers and cash handouts to villages.
Members of the Pheu Thai party initially said they would back a political amnesty, which would open the door for Mr. Thaksin's eventual return and create a potential showdown with the military and others who oppose him. But the party later issued a statement saying that it did not support amnesty, a politically sensitive notion.
''In fact, yes, I really want to be home -- as of yesterday,'' Mr. Thaksin said Sunday in the television interview. ''But everything has to comply with proper conditions. I don't want to be a problem. But if I go back, I have to be part of the solution, part of the answer.''
In the campaign, both parties focused on Mr. Thaksin, the country's most dominating and divisive personality, who has been the de facto leader of Pheu Thai from his refuge in Dubai.
A Pheu Thai slogan was ''Thaksin thinks and Pheu Thai does.''
Mr. Abhisit tried to demonize Mr. Thaksin, declaring in a final political rally that the election would be ''the best opportunity to remove the poison of Thaksin from Thailand.''
But the nation's problems run deep, and analysts say that it will take many years for its conflicts to be resolved.
''We must take the long view,'' said Mr. Thitinan, the Chulalongkorn international studies program director. ''This is not a two-year or three-year exercise. We are talking about two or three decades of political maturation to come. It will be many years before we can reconcile the old order and the new order.''
In the northern city of Chiang Mai, Mr. Thaksin's home, voters at a polling station in a Buddhist temple expressed a mixture of hope and cynicism about the election.
''There's been a huge amount of conflict in Thailand when you compare it with foreign countries,'' said Kwanrudee Saengnon, 26. ''It's been a so-called democracy, not a real democracy. This time I'd like the majority to decide the winner. I really want democracy to decide the outcome.''
Watchara Sroysangwal, a 30-year-old communications company employee, said he voted for a small political party. ''I have no hope for Thailand's future,'' he said. ''They can put new faces on the stage, but it's going to be the same groups of people ruling the country anyway.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yingluck Shinawatra (A1)
 In Bangkok, Pheu Thai supporters celebrated, some waving pictures of Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of Thaksin Shinawatra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUPS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) THAILAND (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



120 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: The Power of a Simple Majority: Filibusters surrender control to a small group of lawmakers

 BODY:
When the New York State Senate legalized same-sex marriage with a simple majority last month, it was a reminder of how unthinkable that would have been in Washington. In the United States Senate, the most routine measures are filibustered and require 60 votes to pass. 
Supermajority requirements are not the only way that democracy is routinely bypassed, and Albany has its own underhanded methods for ensuring that a small group of lawmakers can dominate the majority. The majority leader can, for example, decide what comes to a vote and what does not. In the case of same-sex marriage, the Republican leader, Senator Dean Skelos, brought it to a vote and allowed Republicans to vote their consciences.
That doesn't happen nearly often enough. Many of Mr. Skelos's predecessors would have bottled up the bill, or traded it for something. But it is not nearly as bad as the last few years in the United States Senate, where virtually every measure is filibustered.
Any senator can object to a bill, and often kill it, by triggering the 60-vote threshold. Bills that pass are often watered down or seriously compromised to win the last few votes, long after a majority has consented. As noted recently by Matthew Yglesias, a blogger with the Center for American Progress, the supermajority rule has blocked pricing limits on carbon use and the Dream Act for young immigrants, limited the 2009 stimulus bill, and diluted the reform of health care and the financial system -- just since the beginning of the Obama administration.
In earlier decades, Southern Democrats used the filibuster to make a stand against civil rights legislation. And in between there have been many talented and qualified presidential nominees whose appointments have never even been considered because one senator blocked them.
The filibuster can usefully prolong debate on the most extreme measures, but its automatic use has left the chamber nearly dysfunctional. Several members proposed a reasonable plan to require senators to actively maintain their filibusters, but the Senate squandered the chance to make that modification earlier this year.
Which brings us back to New York. Considering that many of Gov. Andrew Cuomo's accomplishments this term were built on simple-majority votes, it was galling that his tax-cap legislation requires a 60 percent vote in school districts and other jurisdictions to increase property taxes. Supermajority requirements allow small groups of people to exert undue influence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



121 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Hispanics Identifying Themselves As Indians

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY DECKER

 BODY:
A procession of American Indians marched through Sunset Park, Brooklyn, on a weekend afternoon in early May, bouncing to a tribal beat. They dressed in a burst of colors, wore tall headdresses and danced in circles, as custom dictated, along a short stretch of the park.
But there was something different about this tribe, the Tlaxcala, and when the music ceased and the chatter resumed, the difference became clear: They spoke exclusively Spanish. 
The event was Carnaval, an annual tradition celebrated by tribes indigenous to land that is now Mexico. And despite centuries of Spanish influence, the participants identify themselves by their indigenous heritage more than any other ethnicity.
When Fernando Meza is asked about his identity, ''I tell them that I am Indian,'' said Mr. Meza, a parade participant from the Tlaxcala tribe. ''They say, 'But you're Mexican.' And I say, 'But I'm Indian.' ''
Mr. Meza represents one of the changes to emerge from the 2010 census, which showed an explosion in respondents of Hispanic descent who also identified themselves as American Indians.
Seventy percent of the 57,000 American Indians living in New York City are of Hispanic origin, according to census figures. That is 40,000 American Indians from Latin America -- up 70 percent from a decade ago.
The trend is part of a demographic growth taking place nationwide of Hispanics using ''American Indian'' to identify their race. The number of Amerindians -- a blanket term for indigenous people of the Americas, North and South -- who also identify themselves as Hispanic has tripled since 2000, to 1.2 million from 400,000.
''There has been an actual and dramatic increase of Amerindian immigration from Latin America,'' said Jose C. Moya, a professor of Latin American history at Barnard College.
Dr. Moya attributes the increase to shifting patterns of immigration to the United States over the last two decades, from regions with larger indigenous populations, like southern Mexico and Central America, instead of northern Mexico.
Half of all Hispanics who moved to New York over the last 10 years were Mexican, according to the Census Bureau's American Community Survey. Most of them come from southern Mexico.
The pattern started in 1994 with the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which opened the American-Mexican border to more economic activity. To encourage foreign investment in Mexico, its government started to strip Indian landowners of a long-held legal protection from privatization. The resulting conflict awakened ethnic tensions that dated back centuries, and spurred a populist support of indigenous heritage.
That movement was on vivid display at Carnaval in Sunset Park, home to the city's largest Mexican community.
The Tlaxcala were costumed, carried whips and wore pink-hued masks that had flush cheeks, blue eyes and thin mustaches -- obvious stereotypes of the European conquerors. Tlaxcala costumes are also worn in parades in other months in New York, and in other boroughs.
The Indians' version of Carnaval, a Christian holiday of revelry that falls just before Lent, is satirical in nature, the Tlaxcala marchers explained. When Spanish conquistadors celebrated Carnaval in the 16th century, the Tlaxcala observed the custom from afar. The Spaniards wore flamboyant dress, drank too much wine and danced late into the night.
''We are descendants from the original people of Tlaxcala,'' said Gabriel Aguilar, a Ditmas Park resident. ''Five hundred years ago, there is not territory known as Mexico. It's just tribes.''
The American Indian totals are still a small fraction of the overall Hispanic population of the United States, which eclipsed 50 million this year. But the blip in the census data represents raised awareness among native Latinos who believe their heritage stretches farther back than the nationalities available on the census form.
The trend is not occurring solely among newcomers to the United States. Nancy Perez, who shares her household in Ditmas Park with her sister and parents, held a family meeting to decide how they should identify themselves in the census. Her parents moved to the United States from Puebla, Mexico, in the 1970s, and although her family was mixed, ''if you go back far enough, we are indigenous,'' Ms. Perez said. American Indian, they decided, made the most sense.
''We felt that there were very limited options to identify with,'' Ms. Perez, 32, said. ''So out of the options available, that was the best one.''
The Amerindian numbers do not account for those who take a more activist approach toward filling out the census form. Carlos A. Quiroz, an activist and blogger born in Peru, checked off that he was a ''Non-Hispanic'' American Indian, a category normally associated with North American Indians. Mr. Quiroz said he selected it because he opposed use of the word ''Hispanic'' as an ethnic category.
''Hispanic is not a race, '' said Mr. Quiroz, whose ancestors were the Quechua people, of the Central Andes. ''Hispanic is not a culture. Hispanic is an invention by some people who wanted to erase the identity of indigenous communities in America.''
''We don't believe we have to accept this identity just because we speak Spanish,'' Mr. Quiroz added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a festival June 26 in East Elmhurst, Queens, people from the Tlaxcala tribe of Mexico wore masks parodying the Spanish conquistadors. Sergio Herrera, left, held a handmade item. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); CENSUS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); TRENDS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); HISTORY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



122 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: In Joplin, Mo., A Declaration Of Endurance

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
JOPLIN, Mo. -- For the last few nights, brief shimmers of fireworks have sparkled in the dark skies over Joplin, heralding the approach of another national birthday. But the monstrous tornado that mowed through here six weeks ago forced the city to change its Fourth of July plans.
That's right; plans were changed. Monday's celebration of the Fourth in the partially destroyed city of Joplin will be bigger and louder and better than ever, and will end with an extended display of glittery starbursts designed to brighten the faces of all looking skyward.
There will be ice cream, and games, and country-western music, and inflatable bouncy houses, and fellow Missourian Rush Limbaugh, who will seize the moment to promote an iced tea drink flavored with Tea Party fervor. But there will be no references to the tornado that killed 158 people: no American Red Cross booth; no salespeople for Twister Safe and other tornado-protection products. ''We want to have one day without thinking about it,'' Beth Peacock, the events manager for the city's parks, explained. ''Tuesday's going to be here soon enough.'' 
On Tuesday morning, the street-baking sun will reclaim the sky and cast light once again on a city that is one-third damaged or gone -- a city, though, that is working its way toward physical and psychological recovery. Mayor Mike Woolston signaled this communal resolve recently when he ordered that flags be finally raised to full-staff; the time, he said, has come for this city of 50,000 to focus on the living.
A first-time visitor to Joplin today might gasp at the sight of some of its neighborhoods: the destroyed and vacant houses; the stripped trees; the front steps leading to emptiness; the crushed cars evoking the dead; the many streets that, come eerie nighttime, have no power, no light, no life.
Such is the aftermath of an EF5 tornado that landed and lingered on the Sunday evening of May 22, carving across the city's belly, carrying winds of more than 200 miles an hour, changing everything. Dozens were killed, more than 7,000 buildings -- schools, churches, a hospital -- were damaged or destroyed, and a city's economy was upended. Despair loomed on the stripped horizon.
But to someone who saw the damage early on and has returned several weeks later, Joplin is now a study in tidy devastation, if such a thing is possible, with many swept streets, many raked front yards and many neat mounds of debris at curbside. For example, where the concrete-and-steel remains of the Elks Lodge once sat, in sad memorial to four dead, there is now a spotless foundation looking broom-swept.
Working with various state and federal agencies, particularly the Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the city has followed a plan to clear all obstacles to the re-imagining of its future. With the dead now buried, and the displaced now sheltered, it is focusing on removing the debris, so as to see the possibilities beneath.
Last week, in fact, city officials established a steering committee of civic leaders to explore the opportunities arising from tragedy, the do-overs granted by tornado. Maybe the Main Street sidewalks need to be widened, for example. Maybe this cleared land should be a hiking trail.
Troy Bolander, the city planner, whose work-space walls are decorated with color-coded maps of his transformed city, said that Joplin's residents would be asked to remove themselves from the here and now, and think long-term: ''What would you like to see? What would your kids like to see?''
First, though, the cleanup. Residents and workers and tens of thousands of volunteers from around the country -- some just showing up from somewhere else to pitch in -- are carrying the debris to the curbs, making sure to create designated piles. Broken tree limbs here, hazardous wastes here, smashed appliances here.
Then fleets of trucks are carting loads to various landfills, making so many runs that city officials have issued traffic alerts. More than 350 times a day, for example, trucks rumble down old Route 66 to a landfill in the economically challenged Kansas town of Galena, where stretches of landscape are being redefined by 30-foot mounds of broken Joplin.
Roger Hines, 62, whose company, Jordan Disposal, operates the landfill, guided his all-terrain vehicle through the 100-degree heat and up a dusty road to offer a closer look at Joplin belongings involuntarily surrendered. Amid the riot of broken house frames and pieces of porcelain, the tires and sides of walls, can be spotted the occasional personal item.
''It makes you sad when you see toys,'' Mr. Hines said.
City officials say they have carted off well more than a third of the debris. After that comes the more painful task of demolition. It is one thing to clear away the Elks Lodge, or that old supermarket off Main Street, and quite another when it's your house, and you think you might, might, be able to save it -- but the city disagrees.
In fact, Joplin should not be mistaken for a damaged utopia, where all the people are on their best behavior and in agreement with everything said and done. Joplin is human. Here a sign says ''God Bless Joplin,'' and there another says, ''No Trespassing -- We Are Watching.''
City officials are nagging everyone to work as quickly as possible, in part to capitalize on the federal government's promise to pay for 90 percent of the debris removal, up to Aug. 7. For safety and planning reasons, they have also halted any rebuilding, in a do-it-yourself part of the country where some think the less to do with government the better. They have also dealt with con artists, scrap-salvaging thieves and even a couple of area firefighters, suspected of looting.
But Mayor Woolston and Mark Rohr, the city manager, dismissed these as minor moments in a community effort they like to call the ''Miracle of the Human Spirit.'' Sitting and perspiring in devastated Cunningham Park, listening to a picnic band that used an all-but-destroyed hospital as its backdrop, they spoke with emotion of the more than 50,000 volunteers and the financial support of strangers, from a check for $100,000 sent by a synagogue in Arizona to a money order for $31.25 from two girls in the Carolinas who sold lemonade for Joplin.
But now, said Mr. Rohr, sitting amid the neatened destruction, ''It's time to resume a normal routine.''
So, on Monday afternoon, Joplin will relax awhile in the heat of Landreth Park. Its thousands will eat hot dogs, and drink iced tea packaged as patriotism, and sing along to old, familiar songs. Then will come the pulse-racing fireworks, rain or shine.
Correction: July 6, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Monday with the This Land column, about celebrating the Fourth of July in tornado-ravaged Joplin, Mo., misstated the name of a fireworks stand there. It is Jake's Fireworks, not Jack's Fireworks.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2011 Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with the This Land column, about celebrating the Fourth of July in tornado-ravaged Joplin, Mo., misstated the name of a fireworks stand there. It is Jake's Fireworks, not Jack's Fireworks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The remains of a tornado-ravaged home in Joplin, Mo., on Saturday. Despite the devastation, the city made big holiday plans. (A1)
On Saturday night in Joplin, Mo., some residents set off personal fireworks. The city was planning an official display for Monday, louder and better than ever.
 At Jack's Fireworks, Riley Lowther, 4, waited at the checkout. A city official said of the tornado, ''We want to have one day without thinking about it.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) MAP (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORNADOES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); ENGINEERING (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); MUSIC (55%); COUNTRY MUSIC (55%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%); ARMIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



123 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SKOPJE JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Weary of Greek Pressure, Macedonia Claims a Hero

BYLINE: By MATTHEW BRUNWASSER

 BODY:
SKOPJE, Macedonia -- In the view of many here, the neighbors have been bullying this little Balkan country for a long time.
Bulgarians see the people of Macedonia as Bulgarians with accents. Serbia used to consider it Southern Serbia and refuses to recognize its church. Greece accuses the country of nothing less than stealing its name, history and national symbols.
Now, Macedonia has pushed back. 
In a precisely calibrated display of political and civil engineering, workers recently lifted a nearly 48-foot bronze statue of Alexander the Great, weighing 30 tons, and placed it on a 49-foot pedestal in the central square of Skopje, the capital.
''This is a way for Macedonia to affirm its national existence,'' said Vasiliki Neofotistos, an anthropologist from the State University of New York at Buffalo who studies identity politics in Macedonia. ''Macedonia wants to advance the thesis that it is a cornerstone of Western civilization.''
This is no mere philosophical matter. Macedonia is stuck in one of the most intractable disputes of the post-Communist world: Greece has held the country's international relations hostage for 20 years because it considers the name Macedonia an appropriation of its own Hellenic identity and its northern province of the same name.
If it cannot have riches, Macedonia, a country of two million with a 31 percent unemployment rate, wants recognition. Playing up ties to an ancient global celebrity resonates with people who feel they have been marginalized for centuries.
''We are proud of Alexander,'' said Petko Bozhinovski, 48, who wore a black T-shirt with the Macedonian flag when the statue was raised late last month to the applause of several hundred bystanders.
''Finally, our Alexander has come back to his homeland,'' he said.
The project is controversial -- it cost about $13 million. But some things, say statue fans, are priceless. ''If you lose your identity, you are a nobody,'' said Alexandar Ristevski, 32, an ethnographer.
Macedonia was promised an invitation to join NATO in 2008, but Greece vetoed it because the name issue was unresolved. In 2005, Macedonia became a candidate to join the European Union, but it still has no date to start accession talks because of Greek resistance.
''Why should we change our name because of Greece?'' said Alex Trajanovski, a retired diplomat, who said Macedonia had been recognized under that name by 135 countries. Zoran Iliev, a border police officer, said: ''No European Union is worth changing the name. I'm all for the E.U., yes, but not at every price. As Macedonia and as Macedonians, or not at all.''
Greece is equally stubborn. Last month, as the Greek Parliament debated a crucial vote of confidence in the government, Stavros Lambrinidis, the foreign minister, told deputies that the statue was a major point of foreign policy, ''a provocation'' that fanned ''irredentism, the greatest threat to the Balkans.''
Mr. Lambrinidis said Greece had proposed a name with a geographical qualifier to settle the dispute. The Macedonian Foreign Ministry declined to comment.
When Macedonia declared independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, Greece immediately protested the name and flag -- accusing the new country of staking claims to Greek territory and of trying to separate ancient Macedonian civilization from Hellenic culture.
Athens refused to recognize its northern neighbor and organized an embargo. The two countries signed an interim accord in 1995 under which Macedonia would be referred to internationally as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In exchange, Greece lifted its embargo, recognized the provisional name and agreed not to block the country's membership in international institutions.
Almost 16 years later, both sides are still negotiating a new name. They have indicated that they might consider a geographical modifier of Macedonia, like Northern Macedonia -- favored by Greece -- or Macedonia (Skopje), which the Macedonians like.
Meanwhile, Macedonia has filed suit with the International Court of Justice in The Hague against Greece, accusing it of violating the 1995 agreement. A decision is expected in September.
The statue is part of a controversial facelift for Skopje -- a city whose old center was flattened in an earthquake in 1963 -- including 15 new buildings, the renovation of old ones and a triumphal arch.
The government estimated the bill for renovation at $116 million in 2009, but the opposition says costs have already risen to about $290 million. No official figures are available.
The government of Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski has also given Alexander's name to the airport in Skopje, a highway and a stadium. The inauguration of the Alexander statue is expected on Independence Day, Sept. 8.
''This attempt to rebuild the Macedonian nation is definitely destroying the chances for compromise'' with Greece, said Vladimir Milcin, executive director of the Open Society Foundation Macedonia.
Mr. Milcin noted that the European Union's enlargement commissioner, Stefan Fule, called the statue a ''provocation'' and suggested for the first time that Macedonia's move toward Europe was going backward.
But neither Mr. Milcin nor a Western diplomat who insisted on anonymity thought this would deter the prime minister. ''It's just adding fuel to his power and image that he is the final and only defender of Macedonian name, identity and culture,'' Mr. Milcin said.
Macedonia's identity politics are further complicated by the 25 percent of its population who are ethnic Albanians. In 2001, the ethnic Albanian National Liberation Army fought a six-month war against the Macedonia security forces.
Rafis Aliti, a former fighter with the Albanian rebels, and now deputy speaker of Parliament, said the Alexander dispute worried ethnic Albanians because ''there will be no prospects for the future, no security and foreign investment.''
The lure of Macedonian lore has grown in recent years. Alexander has helped buttress the nation against the trauma of the free market, political strife and independence, said Pasko Kuzman, an archaeologist with the Ministry of Culture.
''Alexander conquered the world,'' he added. ''Would you ever give up something like that? I don't think so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In putting up a statue of Alexander the Great, Macedonia is pushing against pressure from Greece over its name and identity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OGNEN TEOFILOVSKI/REUTERS) MAP: Potential names for the nation include Macedonia (Skopje). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (88%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GREECE (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (92%); BULGARIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



124 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Is Offered Aid to Ease Food Crisis

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Responding to the growing threat of a humanitarian crisis in North Korea, the European Union will announce on Monday the release of about $14.5 million in emergency aid to feed as many as 650,000 North Koreans. 
The bloc's executive body, the European Commission, said that after its experts witnessed evidence of a developing crisis last month during a mission to North Korea, it negotiated an agreement with the North Koreans about how to monitor the delivery of assistance.
''Increasingly desperate and extreme measures are being taken by the hard-hit North Koreans, including the widespread consumption of grass,'' the European Commission said in a statement.
The severity of the situation prompted a switch of tactics by the commission. In 2008, it stopped sending humanitarian aid to North Korea in favor of offering financing for longer-term development projects.
''The purpose of this aid package is to save the lives of at least 650,000 people who could otherwise die from lack of food,'' Kristalina Georgieva, a European commissioner, said in the statement. ''Our experts saw severely malnourished children in hospitals and nurseries where no treatment was available.
''North Korea's chronic nutrition problem is turning into an acute crisis in some parts of the country.''
The threat of famine in North Korea has generated global concern. This year, two former presidents -- Jimmy Carter and Martti Ahtisaari, of Finland -- have traveled there. The United States also sent a team of experts to evaluate the conditions.
The European aid will be distributed through the World Food Program, and Ms. Georgieva said it would be strictly monitored, from the point of delivery at ports to when it reached recipients.
''If at any stage we discover that the aid is being diverted from its intended recipients, then the commission will not hesitate to end its humanitarian intervention,'' she said.
According to the commission, its experts found that in North Korea the state-distributed food rations had been more than halved in recent months. Two-thirds of the population depends on the rations, it said.
The per-person ration, which had been 400 grams of cereals per day, about 14 ounces, was reduced to 150 grams, about 5.3 ounces, in June. That is a fifth of the daily average nutritional requirement, according to European experts. Most of the rations consist of corn.
''Food assistance will reach children under 5 who have already been hospitalized with severe acute malnutrition,'' the commission said in the statement. ''Children in residential care will also be fed, as well as pregnant and breast-feeding women, hospital patients and the elderly.''
The food shortages have been caused by years of economic mismanagement and underinvestment, and have been made worse by poor weather and a reduction of food imports from China and South Korea. The next main grain harvest is in October.
Initially, the North Koreans had planned to import 353,000 tons of grains, but that target was reduced to 220,000 tons, of which about half has been secured so far, European experts said.
The North Korean government has promised unrestricted access for random checks related to the aid, the commission said. While distributing the European aid, the World Food Program will pay 400 visits per month to warehouses, institutions caring for children, hospitals and distribution sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); MALNUTRITION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (88%); FAMINE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); NUTRITION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); BREASTFEEDING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



125 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: It Gets Even Worse: New anti-immigrant laws are cruel, racist and counterproductive

 BODY:
If you thought the do-it-yourself anti-immigrant schemes couldn't get any more repellent, you were wrong. New laws in Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina are following -- and in some ways outdoing -- Arizona's attempt to engineer the mass expulsion of the undocumented, no matter the damage to the Constitution, public safety, local economies and immigrant families. 
The laws vary in their details but share a common strategy: to make it impossible for people without papers to live without fear.
They give new powers to local police untrained in immigration law. They force businesses to purge work forces and schools to check students' immigration status. And they greatly increase the danger of unreasonable searches, false arrests, racial profiling and other abuses, not just against immigrants, but anyone who may look like some officer's idea of an illegal immigrant.
The laws empower local police officers to demand the documents of people they meet, and to detain those they suspect are here illegally. That means they can make warrantless arrests for assumed civil immigration violations, a stunning abuse of power.
The laws also make it illegal to give a ride to the undocumented, so a son could land in jail for driving his mother to the supermarket, or a church volunteer for ferrying families to a soup kitchen. They require businesses to check employees against the error-plagued federal E-Verify database, and to fire those who are flagged as unauthorized. Once the purge takes hold in agriculture, there will be no one left to pick onions, peaches and cotton. The immigrant labor shortage is already being felt in Georgia, where crops are rotting and the governor has called for using jobless ex-convicts in the fields.
Alabama's law is the most extreme. It forces public school districts to determine the immigration status of students and their parents and report the data to the state. Alabama still can't bar them from enrolling, since the Supreme Court declared in Plyler v. Doe that all children are entitled to a public education. The state's law seems designed to challenge that ruling, as it turns school officials into de facto immigration agents and impels frightened parents to keep their children home.
It has long been clear that America is suffering for lack of a well-functioning immigration system that better protects workers and families, promotes lawfulness at the border and in the workplace, and gives hardworking people a path to legality.
Congress's inaction has let the states run amok with their own destructive ideas. Supporters insist they are only trying to enforce the law. But trying to catch and deport 11 million people is lunacy. The damage to this country -- its citizens and its laws -- is enormous.
Civil rights organizations are suing or threatening to sue to block these noxious state laws. So far federal courts have enjoined parts of bad local laws in Arizona, Georgia, Utah and Indiana. President Obama's Department of Justice has sued Arizona but not the other states. It needs to fight harder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); DEPORTATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); RACIAL PROFILING (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); LITIGATION (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



126 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Fears of Decline and Demoralization at NASA as the Shuttle Program Ends

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
As NASA prepares to launch its last space shuttle -- ending 30 years in which large teams of creative scientists and engineers sent winged spaceships into orbit -- it is facing what may be a bigger challenge: a brain drain that threatens to undermine safety as well as the agency's plans.
Space experts say the best and brightest often head for the doors when rocket lines get marked for extinction, dampening morale and creating hidden threats. They call it the ''Team B'' effect.
''The good guys see the end coming and leave,'' said Albert D. Wheelon, a former aerospace executive and Central Intelligence Agency official. ''You're left with the B students.'' 
NASA acknowledges the effect and its attendant dangers. It has taken hundreds of steps, including retention bonuses for skilled employees, new perks like travel benefits and more safety drills. Through cuts and attrition in recent years, the shuttle work force has declined to 7,000 workers from about 17,000.
''The downsizing has been well managed and has achieved an acceptable level of risk,'' said Joseph W. Dyer, a retired Navy vice admiral and the chairman of NASA's Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel. After a slow start, ''NASA and its industry partners did a genuinely excellent job'' in planning for the shuttle's retirement, he said. But he conceded, ''There's added risk anytime you downsize.''
Nobody is predicting problems for the coming flight of the Atlantis, the 135th and last launching in the shuttle program. The event is scheduled for Friday at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, before an estimated one million spectators.
After that, there is little glory to look forward to. NASA has been forced to cancel the big missions that capture public attention and attract top talent, and frustrations have bubbled to the surface within the agency. Not only has the shuttle program been scrapped, but so has Constellation, which would have sent Americans back to the moon. Astronauts have been steadily leaving the agency.
At the direction of the Obama administration and Congress, NASA is instead developing a large new rocket to send deep into space. But no destination has been selected, and money is tight. NASA is also trying to nurture a commercial industry that will loft astronauts toward the stars. But the ventures, which involve partnerships with private-sector companies like SpaceX and Boeing, focus on hardware development and so far have no declared goals beyond low orbits around the planet. The shuttles did that for decades, starting in 1981.
In an interview last week, Charles F. Bolden Jr., NASA's administrator and a former astronaut, said he had no misgivings about the last shuttle flight, and he heaped praise on the agency's work force.
''Do we have concerns about morale?'' he asked. ''Yes, we always do. Do we have concerns about the welfare of our workers? Yes, we always do.''
But Mr. Bolden, a retired Marine Corps general, said his workers were excited not only about the Atlantis mission but also about a range of new endeavors at both the space agency and its commercial partners.
''We're trying to help our people stay in the aerospace industry, if not in NASA,'' he said while denying any paralyzing loss of talent. ''We're capturing the brainpower.''
And he flatly rejected the idea that the agency had lost its way.
''We're not adrift,'' he said. ''And the vision is not gone. And we have a plan. We have a very sound plan.''
History has offered some bleak lessons, with tons of wreckage testifying to the danger. Experts say the Team B effect contributed to disasters in the mid-1980s and late 1990s that destroyed more than a dozen rockets, wiped out billions of dollars in satellites and threw the nation's unpiloted space program into turmoil. The two catastrophes of the space shuttle program -- in 1986 and 2003, which killed 14 astronauts -- had more to do with design flaws and management failures than with depleted ranks of experts.
NASA officials say close examinations of failures and problematic retirements have made the agency smarter. ''We went out and looked at who has done this well -- and who has not,'' said Bryan D. O'Connor, NASA's chief of safety and mission assurance.
''There could be something we missed,'' he added. ''But I feel pretty confident about the last flight -- it's going to be just as safe as any we've ever had, if not more so, with just as good people.''
In January, the Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel reached a somewhat different conclusion in its annual report. It warned that ''the lack of a defined mission can negatively affect work force morale'' at NASA, and said the agency's own field centers portrayed the loss of big missions as having already ''increased the potential for risk.''
Future ambitions might also suffer, the panel warned, because a lack of visionary goals can undermine ''the ability to attract and maintain the necessary skill sets needed for this high-technology venture.''
In May, the dissatisfaction erupted at the Kennedy Space Center. Michael D. Leinbach, the launching director for the Atlantis, went off-message with colleagues after conducting a safety drill for the coming flight.
''The end of the shuttle program is a tough thing to swallow, and we're all victims of poor policy out of Washington,'' he told his launching team, according to nasaspaceflight.com, a news site. ''I'm embarrassed that we don't have better guidance.''
He said the nation's programs for putting astronauts into space ''always had something to transition into'' for half a century. ''Now,'' he added, ''we don't have anything.''
The room erupted in applause.
Mr. Bolden, the NASA administrator, was gracious about the episode. Asked about Mr. Leinbach, he offered nothing but praise.
And Mr. O'Connor, the NASA safety chief, said the agency had taken many steps to ensure that staff reductions did not leave the remaining Atlantis workers feeling overtaxed. For instance, he said, schedules have been stretched out to make sure that the corps of technical experts had sufficient time for troubleshooting.
''We don't have the bench strength we once had,'' Mr. O'Connor conceded. ''We've got fewer people.''
Mr. Dyer, the chairman of Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel, said the inquiries of his own team suggested that the shuttle work force remained dedicated to doing the best job possible.
But after years of investigating the darker moments of the shuttle program, he admitted to personal unease about its end.
''I'll breathe more easily,'' Mr. Dyer said, ''after the last flight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Discovery lifting off in 1990. The shuttle program has been the main focus of the nation's spaceflight ambitions for decades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB PEARSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES BOLDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



127 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ART; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Like It or Unfriend It

BYLINE: By TEDDY WAYNE, MIKE SACKS and THOMAS NG. 
Teddy Wayne is the author of the novel ''Kapitoil.'' Mike Sacks is on the editorial staff of Vanity Fair and is the author, most recently, of ''Your Wildest Dreams, Within Reason.'' Thomas Ng is a designer.

 BODY:
AMERICA and Indigenous Peoples are now friends.
Christopher Columbus wrote on America's wall: ''This IS India, right?''
America has joined the New World network.
America is no longer friends with Indigenous Peoples.
The Pilgrims wrote on America's wall: ''Thanks for the add!''
America added tobacco, fur and hardship to Interests. 
America invited Boston to an event: ''Party THURSDAY! B.Y.O.T!''
America added Great Britain to Kingdoms I Am Fighting With.
America has joined the United States of America network.
Ben Franklin tagged America in a note: ''Here's hoping that people in the future refer to this new document whenever they want to justify anything!''
Eli Whitney invented a cotton gin for America's Plantationville.
Plantation owners like this.
African-Americans dislike this.
America added Louisiana to Territories I Have Purchased.
America added ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' to Favorite Music.
America sent American Indians a gift: ''Oklahoma!'' (original cast recording).
America listed gold to the Marketplace.
The South has left the United States of America network.
Abraham Lincoln posted on the South's wall: ''Can't we all just get along?''
John Wilkes Booth is Maybe Attending '''Our American Cousin' at Ford's Theater'': ''Anyone have an extra ticket?!''
The South changed privacy setting to accept carpetbaggers.
America and Josef Goldberg, Colin O'Boylan, Giuseppe Moretti and five million other huddled masses are now friends.
America asked a question: ''Who is Archduke Franz Ferdinand, exactly?''
America added Half the World to Countries I Think I Am Fighting With.
America added an event: ''Party all decade long! B.Y.O. Milk!''
100,000,000 people Not Attending.
America added flappers, jazz, and overspeculation to Interests.
America is feeling depressed.
Soviet Union likes this.
F.D.R. posted a Deal: ''New.''
America added dust, grape-picking and quasi-socialism to Interests.
Japan tagged America in a photo: ''Surprise!''
America was ranked No. 1 by its friends for ''Most Superpowerful.''
America added the Korean DMZ to Demarcations I Will Not Cross.
America added babies, Chevys and suburban conformity to Interests.
America created the Military-Industrial Complex group.
Soviet Union poked America in Cuba.
America poked Soviet Union in Cuba.
Abraham Zapruder uploaded a video.
African-Americans changed their status with America to ''It's Complicated.''
America added an event: ''Draft Party!''
Half a million lower-income people Attending.
America took a quiz: ''What kind of flag burner are you?''
America added turning on, tuning in and dropping out to Interests.
America took a quiz: ''What kind of bra burner are you?''
Richard Nixon made a peace emoticon on chat.
America is feeling malaise.
America posted a note ''25 Random Things About Me'': ''1. Sometimes when I wait in line for gas, I siphon the tank from the car in front of me. 2. When I see the people in my carpool, my mood ring turns purple. 3. I have a hugely inflated sense of self-worth... .''
America added pastels, cocaine and mutually assured destruction to Interests.
Ronald Reagan created a page: ''People Who Like Trickle-Down Economics.''
Half a million upper-income people like this.
America and Osama bin Laden are now friends.
Ronald Reagan wrote graffiti on East Germany's wall: ''Tear this down.''
America SuperPoked! Soviet Union.
America was ranked No. 1 by its friends for ''Most Coca-Cola/Levi's/Michael Jordan/Awesome Cool Hollywood!''
America sent O. J. Simpson a gift: Isotoner gloves.
America sent Monica Lewinsky a gift: Gap dress.
America took a quiz: ''What kind of pirated-MP3-burner are you?''
America received 270 electoral requests from George W. Bush.
50.27 percent of America is no longer friends with Florida.
George W. Bush and five people on the Supreme Court are now friends.
America is no longer friends with Osama bin Laden.
America played the game Wild-Goose Chase While Nation-Building.
America added Iraq to Countries I Am Fighting With Alongside Poland.
America posted zero W.M.D. to Marketplace.
America received four trillion easy credits.
America added flat-screen TVs, broadband pornography and overspeculation to Interests.
America changed its status with African-Americans to ''Everything's O.K. Now, Right?''
African-Americans changed their status with America to ''No, It's Still Complicated.''
America is feeling recessed.
America wrote on the globe's wall: ''Are you sort of warm, too, or is it just us?''
America posted a link to its Read-for-Free App: ''Newspapers, Magazines, Books Dying.''
It is Barack Obama's birthday today.
Donald Trump suggested Barack Obama rejoin the Kenya network.
America stopped playing the game Wild-Goose Chase While Nation-Building.
America was ranked No. 1 by its friends for ''Most Post-Empire.''
America received no new friend requests.
America has joined the China network.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: America's wall 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); RANKINGS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); CUBA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



128 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Cash Con

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Watching the evolution of economic discussion in Washington over the past couple of years has been a disheartening experience. Month by month, the discourse has gotten more primitive; with stunning speed, the lessons of the 2008 financial crisis have been forgotten, and the very ideas that got us into the crisis -- regulation is always bad, what's good for the bankers is good for America, tax cuts are the universal elixir -- have regained their hold.
And now trickle-down economics -- specifically, the idea that anything that increases corporate profits is good for the economy -- is making a comeback. 
On the face of it, this seems bizarre. Over the last two years profits have soared while employment has remained disastrously high. Why should anyone believe that handing even more money to corporations, no strings attached, would lead to faster job creation?
Nonetheless, trickle-down is clearly on the ascendant -- and even some Democrats are buying into it. What am I talking about? Consider first the arguments Republicans are using to defend outrageous tax loopholes. How can people simultaneously demand savage cuts in Medicare and Medicaid and defend special tax breaks favoring hedge fund managers and owners of corporate jets?
Well, here's what a spokesman for Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, told Greg Sargent of The Washington Post: ''You can't help the wage earner by taxing the wage payer offering a job.'' He went on to imply, disingenuously, that the tax breaks at issue mainly help small businesses (they're actually mainly for big corporations). But the basic argument was that anything that leaves more money in the hands of corporations will mean more jobs. That is, it's pure trickle-down.
And then there's the repatriation issue.
U.S. corporations are supposed to pay taxes on the profits of their overseas subsidiaries -- but only when those profits are transferred back to the parent company. Now there's a move afoot -- driven, of course, by a major lobbying campaign -- to offer an amnesty under which companies could move funds back while paying hardly any taxes. And even some Democrats are supporting this idea, claiming that it would create jobs.
As opponents of this plan point out, we've already seen this movie: A similar tax holiday was offered in 2004, with a similar sales pitch. And it was a total failure. Companies did indeed take advantage of the amnesty to move a lot of money back to the United States. But they used that money to pay dividends, pay down debt, buy up other companies, buy back their own stock -- pretty much everything except increasing investment and creating jobs. Indeed, there's no evidence that the 2004 tax holiday did anything at all to stimulate the economy.
What the tax holiday did do, however, was give big corporations a chance to avoid paying taxes, because they would eventually have repatriated, and paid taxes on, much of the money they brought in under the amnesty. And it also gave these companies an incentive to move even more jobs overseas, since they now know that there's a good chance that they'll be able to bring overseas profits home nearly tax-free under future amnesties.
Yet as I said, there's a push for a repeat of this disastrous performance. And this time around the circumstances are even worse. Think about it: How can anyone imagine that lack of corporate cash is what's holding back recovery in America right now? After all, it's widely understood that corporations are already sitting on large amounts of cash that they aren't investing in their own businesses.
In fact, that idle cash has become a major conservative talking point, with right-wingers claiming that businesses are failing to invest because of political uncertainty. That's almost surely false: the evidence strongly says that the real reason businesses are sitting on cash is lack of consumer demand. In any case, if corporations already have plenty of cash they're not using, why would giving them a tax break that adds to this pile of cash do anything to accelerate recovery?
It wouldn't, of course; claims that a corporate tax holiday would create jobs, or that ending the tax break for corporate jets would destroy jobs, are nonsense.
So here's what you should answer to anyone defending big giveaways to corporations: Lack of corporate cash is not the problem facing America. Big business already has the money it needs to expand; what it lacks is a reason to expand with consumers still on the ropes and the government slashing spending.
What our economy needs is direct job creation by the government and mortgage-debt relief for stressed consumers. What it very much does not need is a transfer of billions of dollars to corporations that have no intention of hiring anyone except more lobbyists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); DIVIDENDS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); AMNESTY (60%); MEDICAID (52%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



129 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Indiana's Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your June 23 news article ''The Indiana Exception? Yes, but ...'' left the impression of a state full of crumbling communities and unemployed citizens. This is simply not reality. 
For example, we have the lowest unemployment rate in the Midwest and the fastest-growing population from Iowa to Maine. We have an AAA credit rating. In 2010, our gross domestic product grew third fastest in the country and more than 50 percent faster than the national average.
We are consistently rated among the top states for business. And we lead all Midwestern states in private-sector job growth.
The reason for this success is simple: while our neighbors responded to the downturn by raising taxes, we chose fiscal responsibility.
Gov. Mitch Daniels recently welcomed another 500 jobs to Indiana from Michigan. Fiscal discipline does pay off, so pardon us if we take exception to your view of ''the Indiana exception.''
MITCH ROOB Secretary of Commerce State of Indiana Indianapolis, June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



130 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: 2 Republicans Open Door To Increases In Revenue

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Two senior Republicans said Sunday that they might be open to raising new government revenue as part of a deal to resolve the dispute over the federal debt ceiling, but they warned that there was little time to enact a comprehensive deal.
One of the senators, John Cornyn of Texas, said he would consider eliminating some tax breaks and corporate subsidies in the context of changes in the tax code, provided there was not an overall increase in taxes. 
''I think it's clear that the Republicans are opposed to any tax hikes, particularly during a fragile economic recovery,'' Mr. Cornyn said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''Now, do we believe tax reform is necessary? I would say absolutely.''
But he insisted that any changes in taxes be ''revenue neutral,'' meaning that the government would not take in any more money from individuals or businesses than it does now.
The other senator, John McCain of Arizona, said he would be willing to consider some ''revenue raisers'' as part of a broad deal, but he refused to name specific measures.
Mr. Cornyn, a member of the Senate leadership, also said that Republicans would be open to a short-term deal on the debt ceiling to provide more time for a comprehensive agreement.
''The problem with a minideal is we have a maxi-problem,'' he said. ''And the big problems aren't going to go away if you cut a minideal. All it does is delay the moment of truth. And so I'd say better now than then. But if we can't, then we'll take the savings we can get now, and we will relitigate this as we get closer to the election.''
The White House had no comment on the senators' remarks.
Last week, President Obama harshly criticized Republicans lawmakers for refusing to eliminate tax breaks like those for private jet owners, hedge fund managers, multinational oil companies and ethanol producers. He argued that eliminating such loopholes could save billions of dollars and help fix the short-term federal deficit and long-term national debt.
The administration and Congressional negotiators are racing to find a deal to raise the federal debt ceiling of $14.3 trillion by Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says the United States will exhaust its ability to borrow money and could default on some obligations. A bargain must be struck at least a week before then to provide time for a Congressional Budget Office analysis and for both chambers to vote on it.
Mr. McCain said Sunday that closing the tax breaks that Mr. Obama mentioned would have a negligible impact on the nation's fiscal condition and would defy the will of the voters.
''The principle of not raising taxes is something that we campaigned on last November, and the result of the election was that the American people didn't want their taxes raised and they wanted us to cut spending,'' he said on the CNN program ''State of the Union.''
He added that his fellow Republican senator from Arizona, Jon Kyl, a member of the budget negotiating team, had said there were certain measures that Republicans would consider, and that he was open to them. He refused to name any.
Mr. Kyl said he would be willing to consider some increases to help bring down the deficit. ''We're perfectly willing to consider those kinds of issues in the context of tax reform, which we would very much like to do,'' Mr. Kyl said last week on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''But we're not going to have the time to do it or be able to do it in order just to raise revenue as part of the exercise, which should be about reducing spending.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TAX REFORM (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (50%); ALCOHOLS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); ETHANOL (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



131 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include factory orders for May (Tuesday); the Institute for Supply Management service index for June (Wednesday); the ADP employment report for June and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for June and wholesale trade and consumer credit for May (Friday). 
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, financial markets, government offices and most businesses in the United States will be closed in observance of the Fourth of July holiday. On Tuesday, Christine Lagarde, above, will begin her five-year term as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. On Wednesday, President Obama will hold a town hall meeting on Twitter about the economy. On Thursday, retailers will report their same-store sales for June, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will conduct a hearing about digital security and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about mortgage servicing. On Friday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about bank examination practices, and Sheila C. Bair will step down as chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
OVERSEAS On Thursday, the European Central Bank and Bank of England will issue decisions about interest rates. On Friday, a French court is expected to announce its decision on whether to open a formal inquiry into Ms. Lagarde's role in a 2008 arbitration case.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); SAME STORE SALES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (53%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); SHEILA BAIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



132 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Is Ethanol a Solution, or a Problem?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Great Corn Con'' (Op-Ed, June 25), Steven Rattner claims that United States ethanol production makes food costlier and scarcer, pollutes the environment and drains the treasury. That is not the case.
While producing 13 billion gallons of ethanol last year, the American biofuels industry also generated 32.5 million metric tons of feed for cattle, pigs and poultry. 
Mr. Rattner claims that ethanol ''consumes vast quantities of water and increases smog.'' In fact, using ethanol in gasoline has reduced smog-forming emissions by 25 percent since 1990 and results in a 48 to 59 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared with gasoline, according to a recent study.
Moreover, ethanol yields between 1.9 and 2.3 times as much energy as it takes to produce, and producing a gallon of ethanol requires about as much water as producing a gallon of gasoline.
In farming communities and factory towns far from Wall Street, the American ethanol industry supports some 400,000 jobs, contributes $53.6 billion to the gross domestic product, and pays $15 billion annually in federal and state taxes, far surpassing the cost of federal tax incentives for ethanol. Meanwhile, according to the Government Accountability Office, the oil industry has received over $130 billion in tax incentives over the past 30 years.
The United States ethanol industry is eager to discuss how to develop, produce and market the next generation of biofuels, made from plant and wood wastes and even municipal garbage.
BOB DINNEEN Washington, June 27, 2011
The writer is president and chief executive of the Renewable Fuels Association, the trade association of the United States ethanol industry.
To the Editor:
The United States' ethanol policy favoring the feeding of machines over people is shameful. Ethanol production from corn is energy-inefficient. Farm subsidies are an abuse.
Steven Rattner has it right. Why can't the policy makers get it?
ELISHA GURFEIN Wayne, N.J., June 25, 2011
The writer teachers economics and finance at Montclair State University.
To the Editor:
I disagree with Steven Rattner's argument that the corn ethanol program is responsible for rising food prices. Food prices are being driven by oil prices. This can be seen by noting that the price of corn shot up to $7 per bushel in 2008 simultaneous with the run-up in the price of oil to $140 a barrel; it then crashed to $3 per bushel in 2009, when oil dropped to $40 a barrel; and it has since come back up, tracking the price of oil. The prices of wheat and other grains have followed the same pattern, as has the price of fish.
Despite the ethanol program, American corn exports have not missed a beat. More important, because of the ethanol market, investments have occurred in new techniques that have increased average American corn yields from 120 bushels per acre in 2002 to 160 bushels per acre today, with some farms approaching 300 bushels per acre. These advances will help feed the world for decades to come.
There may be famine in many places globally this year. But this is because of the regressive tax on the world economy imposed by high oil prices. This needs to be eroded by competition from alternative fuels. Ethanol helps achieve that goal.
ROBERT ZUBRIN Golden, Colo., June 26, 2011
The writer is the author of ''Energy Victory: Winning the War on Terror by Breaking Free of Oil.''
To the Editor:
Mounting federal budget woes have changed the climate in Washington. As ethanol industry critics move in for the kill, policy makers should step back. Conventional energy sources -- oil, gas and coal -- will fuel our economy for a long time, but they won't last forever.
The tough, long-term task of developing the next generation of fuels lies ahead, and some level of consistent public support for private-sector efforts will probably be necessary. Someday, maybe decades from now, our children's children will appreciate our commitment to solving long-term energy problems.
TIMOTHY J. WEIMAN Houston, June 25, 2011
The writer is an oil industry veteran and a special projects adviser in the biofuels industry.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIE CASSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (95%); ALCOHOLS (94%); BIOFUELS (93%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); SMOG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); BIOMASS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CORN FARMING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CROP PRODUCTION (74%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); POULTRY (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



133 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeking A Steep Increase In Auto Mileage

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration and the auto industry are locked in negotiations over new vehicle mileage and emissions standards that will have a profound effect on the cars Americans drive and the health of the auto industry over the next decade and beyond.
Depending on the stringency of the standard, the deal could also reduce global warming emissions by millions of tons a year and cut oil imports by billions of barrels over the life of the program, cornerstones of President Obama's energy policy.
The administration is proposing regulations that will require new American cars and trucks to attain an average of as much as 56.2 miles per gallon by 2025, roughly double the current level. That would require increases in fuel efficiency of nearly 5 percent a year from 2017 to 2025.
The standard would put domestic vehicle fuel efficiency on a par with that in Europe, China and Japan, saving consumers billions of dollars at the pump and creating for the first time a truly global automobile market. 
The automakers say the standard is technically achievable. But they warn that it will cost billions of dollars to develop the vehicles, and they express doubt that consumers will accept the smaller, lighter -- and in some cases, more expensive -- cars that result.
''We can build these vehicles,'' said Gloria Bergquist, vice president for public affairs at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the leading industry lobby in Washington. ''The question is, will consumers buy them?''
The talks have heated up and will continue through the summer, with the proposed new standard expected in September and completed early next year after public hearings.
The auto companies are asking the government to phase in the standard gradually, to allow credits for using certain technologies and fuels and to include a review period that could lower the target if it proves too costly, industry and government officials said. They are also seeking assurances that the government will help build the charging stations needed for electric and plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles, which will help to meet the new standard.
A senior administration official, insisting on anonymity because the negotiations were continuing, said the 56.2 m.p.g. goal represented the government's opening bid, and might not be the final figure. The official said there was still some disagreement within the government, and the final outlines are far from certain.
The United States has the world's most lenient vehicle emissions and mileage standards, lagging as much as 10 m.p.g. behind the rest of the world. Europe is expected to reach about 60 m.p.g. by 2020.
The official added that arriving at a new mileage rule was particularly difficult because the auto industry has not yet fully recovered from the recession and the government was trying to force technological change more than a decade in the future.
On that, industry and government agree.
''It is very challenging,'' Mark Reuss, president of General Motors North America, said of the 56.2 m.p.g. goal at a press event in Detroit last week. ''But it's up to us as engineers to provide high value to the customer and support the environment.''
The auto companies and the government are returning to a familiar battleground, which the industry dominated for three decades beginning in the 1970s, using its clout on Capitol Hill and within the federal bureaucracy to keep fuel economy standards low.
But two years ago, when Chrysler and General Motors were clinging to life and the rest of the industry was slumping, carmakers agreed to aggressive new nationwide fuel economy standards covering the years 2012 to 2016. That deal, announced by President Obama in May 2009 as a dozen auto executives looked on, raises the domestic car and light truck fleet fuel economy to 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016.
Now, the government wants to extend that mandate nine years, but is confronting a much healthier and feistier industry.
The lobbying is already in full swing. The auto companies are seeking a standard at the lower end of the range proposed by the government, citing studies that say that meeting the stiffer regulation will add thousands of dollars to the cost of a new vehicle and require a significant downsizing of vehicles in all classes.
They also want certainty that there will be a single national standard and that California will not be permitted to pursue a tougher standard on its own.
''To reach a 56 m.p.g. standard would mean a tremendous shift in the types of vehicles consumers buy,'' the National Auto Dealers Association said in a statement. The group said that hybrids and plug-in electric vehicles now account for less than 3 percent of the domestic market, while meeting the new standard could require the fleet to be more than 50 percent hybrid or electric, an assertion disputed by advocates of the new rule.
The new, more conservative Congress is clearly not inclined to support intrusive federal regulation of a vital American industry, but it is really not a party to the negotiations.
''The auto companies went along with the first round begrudgingly,'' said Roland Hwang, transportation program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''Two companies were in bankruptcy and the industry had lost credibility and a lot of political capital in Washington. Now they know a second round is going to happen, but their goal is to make it as weak as possible.''
It is possible that the top-line mileage figure will be at or near the administration's bid of 56.2 m.p.g., but that could mask a number of adjustments and loopholes, environmental advocates contend.
Car companies could receive credit for using low-polluting air-conditioner refrigerants, building cars that can run mainly on biofuels, putting solar panels on cars to provide cooling power and other technological gimmicks.
''The companies want the lowest number and all the flexibility mechanisms underneath it,'' said Brendan Bell, a transportation analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists. ''What matters to us and to other environmentalists is how much oil does it save and how much pollution does it avoid. We need a strong number and a program with integrity.''
The proposal is being developed by the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the California Air Resources Board, which has led the nation in setting tough standards.
Heather Zichal, a White House policy adviser on energy and environmental issues, said fuel economy standards were among the most effective ways to cut emissions and reduce oil imports, top priorities of the president.
''The administration's commitment to fuel efficiency standards is a critical part of the president's goal of decreasing oil imports by a third by 2025, helping to insulate American families from the ups and downs of gas prices, while also creating and saving jobs in the American auto industry,'' Ms. Zichal said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



134 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Box Office Sputters Domestically but Explodes Overseas

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Hollywood's Fourth of July fireworks were overseas.
The holiday period, a marquee sales time for movie studios, saw Julia Roberts and Tom Hanks bomb in the romantic comedy ''Larry Crowne'' and the third installment of the ''Transformers'' series fall notably short of its predecessor in North America. But the international box office continued to sizzle, with fans flocking to ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon.'' Between Tuesday night and Sunday, that Paramount Pictures movie sold an estimated $210 million in tickets overseas, a 51 percent increase over the same opening stretch for ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' the franchise's previous entry, in 2009.
Paramount said that tickets for 3-D shows, which carry a price premium, drove the strong overseas performance for ''Dark of the Moon,'' which set sales records in seven countries, including South Korea with an estimated $28 million. It was Paramount's biggest international opening (in dollars unadjusted for inflation). 
''To see this kind of gigantic international start is simply amazing,'' said Rob Moore, Paramount's vice chairman. Overseas sales for ''Revenge of the Fallen,'' which was not released in 3-D, totaled $434 million, and ''Dark of the Moon'' could sharply improve on that.
The film was shown at many Imax theaters abroad, and Imax, which broke its global sales records, was jubilant. ''It's out of control,'' said Greg Foster, its chairman of filmed entertainment.
Still, North America was a muddy picture. ''Dark of the Moon'' took in about $162 million between Tuesday night and Sunday, compared with $200 million for ''Revenge of the Fallen'' during the comparable period, according to Hollywood.com, which compiles ticketing statistics. Monday sales for ''Dark of the Moon'' were estimated at $18.8 million, lifting its domestic total to $181 million.
Analysts attributed the shortfall -- which came despite higher ticket prices -- to several factors. Audiences in the United States have started to tire of 3-D. About 60 percent of the domestic total for ''Dark of the Moon'' came from 3-D screenings; the format made up about 70 percent of sales overseas.
Americans, still feeling the pinch of a weak economy, have been going to the movies less often. For the year, domestic ticket sales stand at $5.2 billion, an 8 percent decline from the same period in 2010; attendance is down 9.4 percent.
But confusion overload from ''Revenge of the Fallen'' and its hard-to-decipher plot was probably the biggest factor. ''We needed to win the audience back by telling a better story,'' Mr. Moore said.
The good news for Paramount, aside from the overseas total, involves audience reaction to ''Dark of the Moon.'' Exit polls show that moviegoers are more satisfied with the film than with its predecessor, which should lead to favorable word of mouth. Sales increased from Friday to Saturday, a sign of positive chatter among fans of the series.
''Dark of the Moon,'' directed by Michael Bay, cost about $200 million to make and centers on robot aliens clashing over a hidden spacecraft. (The 3-D effects alone contributed about $30 million to the budget.) It was easily No. 1 at the North American box office for the weekend.
''Cars 2,'' from Pixar Animation Studios, was second in its second weekend with about $25 million in sales (excluding Monday estimates) for a new total of $116 million. ''Bad Teacher,'' the raunchy Sony comedy starring Cameron Diaz, was third with about $14 million for a two-week total of $59.5 million.
Ms. Roberts and Mr. Hanks limped along in fourth place in ''Larry Crowne,'' distributed by Universal Pictures and taking in about $13 million. Vendome Pictures spent about $30 million to make it. The two stars have opened to lower results: ''Charlie Wilson's War'' sold about $10 million in tickets during its first three days in 2007. But that was a drama released in winter, and analysts had higher expectations for the two in a summer comedy.
The disappointing returns could have been the result of negative reviews and a warm-and-fuzzy marketing campaign that made the film look like something akin to a movie of the week.
Mr. Hanks directed the film, which he wrote with Nia Vardalos (''My Big Fat Greek Wedding''). To help get the movie made he agreed to play the male lead. The story centers on a middle-aged man who goes back to college after losing his job and develops a crush on his teacher, played by Ms. Roberts.
''Monte Carlo,'' an inexpensive comedic romance from 20th Century Fox starring Selena Gomez, was fifth, taking in about $7.6 million.
The coming weeks will be crucial for Hollywood's hopes of ending its domestic box office slump. Aside from continued sales for ''Dark of the Moon,'' the industry is counting on a potential multiplex monster: Warner Brothers will release ''Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2'' in 3-D on July 15.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shia LaBeouf keeps busy in ''Transformers: Dark of the Moon.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAIMIE TRUEBLOOD/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (76%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (73%); JULIA ROBERTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



135 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Bicycle Dividend

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Construction of bike paths offers economic benefits in addition to improvements in health and the environment, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
More Americans are biking or walking to work these days, in part because public-sector investment is improving the infrastructure they need to get there safely. Further public investments in bike paths and bike lanes are likely to offer a big social payoff.
Federal spending on bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure has more than doubled since 2006 but amounted to less than $4 a person in 2010.
This chart, a snippet of a larger infographic by Kory Northrop, a graduate student at the University of Oregon, that illustrates differences across states and highlights the top 10 major American cities for bike commuting, draws on data from the American Community Survey for 2009.
Portland, Ore., tops the list, with 5.8 percent of workers riding to their jobs on a regular basis. Snowy Minneapolis comes in second, at 3.9 percent, and Seattle third, at 3 percent. San Francisco, despite its hills, is nearly tied with Seattle. Smaller cities are not included in this ranking, but some, like Boulder, Colo., and Eugene, Ore., have higher bike-commuting rates than Portland.
At last count, New York City was still below 1 percent, but that may be changing, with the recent large expansion of bike paths there.According to Bicycling magazine, all the above-mentioned cities rank among the top 10 in terms of bike infrastructure.
Some people regard bike paths as invasions of sacred car space. In March, John Cassidy of The New Yorker ranted online against their expansion in Manhattan. He was immediately reproved by scores of his readers, as well as by a commentary in The Economist, "The World Is His Parking Spot," that applied basic social cost-benefit analysis.
Here is the economic logic behind increased efforts to promote bicycle use:
Cars enjoy huge direct subsidies in the form of road construction and public parking spaces, as well as indirect subsidies to the oil industry that provides their fuel. These subsidies far exceed the tax revenue generated by car use (as this excellent discussion of the technical issues at stake in these calculations makes clear.)
Yet cars impose major social costs: their use contributes to global warming, traffic congestion, accident fatalities and sedentary lifestyles.
Bicycle use is good for both people and the planet. In a country afflicted by obesity and inactivity, people who get moving become healthier. Riding a bike to work or to do errands is far cheaper than joining a gym. Cutting back on gas consumption improves air quality, reduces dependence on imported oil and saves money.
Increased bicycle use is practical and feasible, especially if it can be combined with effective public transportation for long-distance needs. As John Pucher of Rutgers University (dubbed Professor Bicycle by some of his fans) explains, about 40 percent of all automobile trips in metropolitan areas are less than two miles - a distance easily biked.
International comparisons in use rates, as well as differences among cities in the United States, demonstrate the impact of public policy. Professor Pucher points out that the bike share of local trips ranges from 1 percent in the United States to 18 percent in Denmark to 27 percent in the Netherlands.
As a recent New York Times article explains, many European cities explicitly aim to discourage automobile use. Good public transportation systems help people get into downtown areas that would be less congested and thus more inviting. Bike-sharing programs are expanding in cities all over the world, including Latin America.
For bicyclists, increased numbers often lead to increased safety. As bike paths on roads attract larger numbers of cyclists, the chance of car-related accidents declines, promoting further use. Safety appears to be a major factor for women in particular.
As more people ride to work, cultural norms shift -- bike commuting begins to seem less quirky. Businesses begin to recognize the benefits of providing facilities for showering and changing clothes (cheaper per person than car-parking spots).
These changes, in turn, can promote more biking. Build it and they will come: increased supply can increase demand.
Major improvements in bike infrastructure wouldn't just make it easier to get to work. They would also create work, a high priority in our high-unemployment economy.
Construction of bike paths offers more job creation per infrastructure dollar than investment in roads. (For more details, see this recent study by my University of Massachusetts colleague Heidi Garrett-Peltier, who analyzed 58 projects in 11 cities, using an input-output model to measure employment impact).
Hats (and helmets) off to the bicycle activists and policy makers who work to promote bicycle paths and lanes. They are spinning us all in a good direction.

        
How Seattle Transformed Itself 
        
Grow Green Jobs
        
The Health of the Cities
        
Remembering the Father of Transportation Economics
        
What Would High-Speed Rail Do to Suburban Sprawl?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CYCLING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (85%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); CITIES (74%); RANKINGS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (61%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); OBESITY (60%); AIR QUALITY (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) bicycles; cities; Daily Economist; infrastructure; Nancy Folbre; Obesity; public health; public transportation; traffic; transportation; Bicycles and Bicycling

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



136 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Tales of Woe Using Credit Cards Abroad

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Readers share difficulties using credit cards abroad, tracing unscooped dog waste to the culprit, legal fireworks make a comeback and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.

 BODY:
A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and online in our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet. Banks voluntarily easing terms on some loans seen as risky. (Business) Fireworks make a comeback as local governments seek revenue. (Business) Travelers share tales of woe about using credit cards abroad. (Travel) Gay marriage law makes for busy wedding season in New York. (Weddings and Celebrations) The benefits of a biweekly mortgage plan. (Real Estate) Tracing unscooped dog waste to its source. (National) For home prices, it's back to 2004. (Business) General Motors recalls pickups for faulty shift-lever reading. (Wheels) Smartphone customers are still up for grabs. (Bits) Uno Roboto offers high-tech twist on classic game. (Gadgetwise) Making a consumer bet on concentrated cleaning product refills. (Green) How cellphones affect parent-teenager relations. (Well) Empty plates for low-income seniors. (The New Old Age) Alert Eloise: The Plaza Hotel reopens its tricycle garage. (In Transit) Administration wants to double auto fuel efficiency by 2025. (Business) More Americans bike to work thanks to infrastructure investments. (Economix) Hackers claim small breach on Apple site. (Business)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (73%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SMARTPHONES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); HOME PRICES (54%) Personal Finances; Best of Times

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



137 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Mergers Takes a Midyear Pause

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: After a blistering start to the year, deal volume slowed down in the second quarter as uncertainty again weighed on the markets.

 BODY:
The revival in mergers this year has taken some time to catch its breath.
After a blistering start to the year, deal volume slowed down in the second quarter as uncertainty again weighed on the markets. While many deal makers say that the number of transactions will continue to rise, the pace of that activity remains uncertain.
Deals totaling about $1.4 trillion were announced in the first half of the year, according to Thomson Reuters data, a 35 percent increase over the same time last year. That is the strongest start to deal-making since the financial crisis, as corporate boards, armed with cash and cheap financing, felt comfortable enough to seek out growth by acquisitions.
But the confidence of executives appears to have been shaken by fears of a slowing economic recovery and persistent worry over Greece's fiscal troubles. About $631.4 billion worth of deals were announced in the second quarter, down 20 percent from the first quarter.
The biggest question is whether management teams can be persuaded to pursue acquisitions they have already been weighing.
"Is this a real slowdown, or is this temporary?" asked Mark Shafir, the global head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup. "We think that unless there is a major slowing of world economy, there's some room to grow."
Bankers and lawyers say that over the first half of the year, the majority of deals struck have been by strategic buyers looking to augment existing businesses. As some companies have struggled to find ways to grow organically, buying new business has gained favor in some corporate suites.
Johnson & Johnson's $20.8 billion acquisition of Synthes reflected the American health giant's desire to expand its presence in the increasingly lucrative medical devices sector. With low debt, $28 billion in cash on hand and enormous free cash flow, Johnson & Johnson was long seen by analysts as ready to make a big purchase.
It's unusual, but many deals announced this year have yielded rises in the stock of the acquirer. While many times the buyer's shares go down amid fears that the deal may be overvalued, advisers say that the phenomenon highlights shareholder approval in the right cases.
"Investors are being supportive and sometimes highly supportive of ideas that make sense," said Michael Boublik, Morgan Stanley's chairman of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas.
One of the consequences of the mostly stable economic conditions from the first half of the year is that potential buyers and sellers are finding it easier to come to an agreement over the valuation of a particular deal. The average premium for an American target company to its stock price four weeks before a deal announcement shrank to 30.7 percent, from 37.6 percent.
Takeovers by private equity firms in the first half also rose over the same time last year, to about $114 billion. But that is a decline from the latter half of last year, when the largest takeovers since the financial crisis, like the $5.3 billion buyout of Del Monte Foods, were announced.
Deal experts say that while buyout firms are still poised to benefit from the positive mergers environment, they face more constraints than they did in the credit boom. The resurgence of determined corporate buyers has made many auctions costlier. And while debt financing remains cheap and plentiful, private equity firms are more hard-pressed to write big equity checks.
And club deals - when several buyout firms band together to buy a target they could not afford on their own - have become less common, amid pressure by institutional investors.
"Our sense is that private equity activity levels are continuing to be more important to the M.& A. market than they were two years ago," said Stephen Arcano, the leader of the mergers practice at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. "But I don't think we're poised for a surge in private equity activity."
Yet private equity firms have been busy selling companies to generate returns for their investors. In perhaps the most extreme instance, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts sold Primedia for $525 million, closing out a 22-year investment in the media company.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LAWYERS (66%); DIVESTITURES (64%) Credit and Debt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Mergers & Acquisitions; Private Equity; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



138 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: Ridgewood, N.J., 9:40 a.m.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Baba Ly, 8, prepared to play the president on a float during the Independence Day parade in Ridgewood, N.J.

 BODY:
Baba Ly, 8, prepared to play the president during the Independence Day parade in Ridgewood, N.J., on a float from his school, Travell Elementary. He was assisted by his mother, Aisha Ly, who made sure his tie was straight and his shirt was tucked in.

        
Court Upholds Restriction on Fifth Avenue Parades
        
In Recession and War, Celebrating St. Patrick's Day
        
Street Closings for the July 4 Weekend
        
Today's a Day When It's Easy Being Green
        
A Stork Rises From Its Ashes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%) holidays; Offbeat; Parades; Ridgewood (NJ); New Jersey

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%) Parades; Ridgewood (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



139 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says Obama Made the Recession Worse

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: After disputing whether he had previously said President Obama made the recession worse last week former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts said on Monday that President Obama made the recession worse.

 BODY:
AMHERST, N.H. -- After disputing whether he had previously said President Obama made the recession worse last week former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts said on Monday that President Obama made the recession worse.
Speaking at the annual July Fourth parade here on Monday, Mr. Romney told a crowd of supporters and passersby,"the recession is deeper because of our president," adding, "it's seen an anemic recovery because of our president."
Mr. Romney made a similar assertion earlier when reporters had pressed him on the point near the parade staging grounds, after initially seeming to limit his commentary to the president's handling of the recovery, which he said, "has been slower and more painful,'' But then he went ahead and said it, that the president "made the recession worse."
The National Bureau of Economic Research has concluded that the recession ended in June of 2009, and Mr. Romney has been challenged in his assertion that Mr. Obama's policies made the recession worse. When he was asked about it on Thursday, Mr. Romney had said, "I didn't say that things are worse, what I said was that the economy hasn't turned around." Democrats pounced, given that as recently as mid-June Mr. Romney had said during a debate, "he didn't create the recession, but he made it worse, and longer." Shortly after Mr. Romney left the parade route on Monday his rival, former Utah Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. was asked if he agreed with Mr. Romney. He dodged. "There's been a very anemic pick-up.'' Asked about his thoughts about Mr. Romney's comments on the president and the recovery Mr. Huntsman said, "I try to distance myself from the unfurling drama of different campaigns, it's the only way I stay sane."

        
Ridgewood, N.J., 9:30 a.m.
        
Mr. Romney, Say Hello to Mr. Huntsman
        
Mitt Romney's $5 Lemonade
        
Bachmann, Gingrich Share an Iowa Parade
        
Romney Has His Own Traveling Soap Box 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); RECESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAUCUSES (70%) Fourth of July; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Parades; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Amherst (Mass); Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Utah; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); JON HUNTSMAN (78%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); UTAH, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) Amherst (Mass); Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Utah

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



140 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann and Gingrich Share an Iowa Parade

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich celebrated Independence Day here, but it was Republicans they were searching for as they walked along Main Street on Monday in one of the state's premiere holiday parades.

 BODY:
CLEAR LAKE, Iowa -- Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich celebrated Independence Day here, but it was Republicans they were searching for as they walked along Main Street on Monday in one of the state's premiere holiday parades.
"I'm thrilled!" Mrs. Bachmann said, after racing from side to side along the parade route, often breaking into a jog to shake more hands. "We've been from the Mississippi River to the Missouri River -- all across Iowa. We'll be back many, many more times."
As Ms. Bachmann made her way through the crowded streets of this northern Iowa community, a giant blue tour bus emblazoned with her name tailed her. She was completing a weekend tour of the state just one week after announcing her candidacy. Ms. Bachmann asked voters to support her at the Iowa Straw Poll in August, a Republican event that will be a test of campaign organization.
Several blocks away, Mr. Gingrich also walked along the route. His entourage was considerably smaller (a teal Thunderbird convertible, with Florida license plates, was his campaign car.) But he and his wife, Callista, shook hands and greeted the voters of Iowa, whose caucuses open the Republican presidential nominating process early next year.Mr. Gingrich said he was committed to spending 16 days in Iowa over the next two months. He declined to answer questions about his finances, which former campaign aides who resigned from his organization have said will show a steep debt. He noted that John McCain, in 2007, also endured campaign turmoil and shaky finances before becoming the nominee.
At the end of a parade that stretched more than a mile, Mr. Gingrich looked a bit tussled, but otherwise cool and dry. (He was surrounded by sweating photographers and parade goers.)
"Campaigning in August in Georgia is good training for Clear Lake on the Fourth of July," he said with a smile.

        
Ridgewood, N.J., 9:30 a.m.
        
Mr. Romney, Say Hello to Mr. Huntsman
        
Mitt Romney's $5 Lemonade
        
Romney Has His Own Traveling Soap Box 
        
Romney Says Obama Made the Recession Worse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) Fourth of July; Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; McCain, John; Elections; Parades; Presidential Election of 2008; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Iowa; Bachmann, Michele; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MICHELE BACHMANN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Callista; Gingrich, Newt; McCain, John

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



141 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: The Mother Of All No-Brainers

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The Republicans have changed American politics since they took control of the House of Representatives. They have put spending restraint and debt reduction at the top of the national agenda. They have sparked a discussion on entitlement reform. They have turned a bill to raise the debt limit into an opportunity to put the U.S. on a stable fiscal course.
Republican leaders have also proved to be effective negotiators. They have been tough and inflexible and forced the Democrats to come to them. The Democrats have agreed to tie budget cuts to the debt ceiling bill. They have agreed not to raise tax rates. They have agreed to a roughly 3-to-1 rate of spending cuts to revenue increases, an astonishing concession. 
Moreover, many important Democrats are open to a truly large budget deal. President Obama has a strong incentive to reach a deal so he can campaign in 2012 as a moderate. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, has talked about supporting a debt reduction measure of $3 trillion or even $4 trillion if the Republicans meet him part way. There are Democrats in the White House and elsewhere who would be willing to accept Medicare cuts if the Republicans would be willing to increase revenues.
If the Republican Party were a normal party, it would take advantage of this amazing moment. It is being offered the deal of the century: trillions of dollars in spending cuts in exchange for a few hundred million dollars of revenue increases.
A normal Republican Party would seize the opportunity to put a long-term limit on the growth of government. It would seize the opportunity to put the country on a sound fiscal footing. It would seize the opportunity to do these things without putting any real crimp in economic growth.
The party is not being asked to raise marginal tax rates in a way that might pervert incentives. On the contrary, Republicans are merely being asked to close loopholes and eliminate tax expenditures that are themselves distortionary.
This, as I say, is the mother of all no-brainers.
But we can have no confidence that the Republicans will seize this opportunity. That's because the Republican Party may no longer be a normal party. Over the past few years, it has been infected by a faction that is more of a psychological protest than a practical, governing alternative.
The members of this movement do not accept the logic of compromise, no matter how sweet the terms. If you ask them to raise taxes by an inch in order to cut government by a foot, they will say no. If you ask them to raise taxes by an inch to cut government by a yard, they will still say no.
The members of this movement do not accept the legitimacy of scholars and intellectual authorities. A thousand impartial experts may tell them that a default on the debt would have calamitous effects, far worse than raising tax revenues a bit. But the members of this movement refuse to believe it.
The members of this movement have no sense of moral decency. A nation makes a sacred pledge to pay the money back when it borrows money. But the members of this movement talk blandly of default and are willing to stain their nation's honor.
The members of this movement have no economic theory worthy of the name. Economists have identified many factors that contribute to economic growth, ranging from the productivity of the work force to the share of private savings that is available for private investment. Tax levels matter, but they are far from the only or even the most important factor.
But to members of this movement, tax levels are everything. Members of this tendency have taken a small piece of economic policy and turned it into a sacred fixation. They are willing to cut education and research to preserve tax expenditures. Manufacturing employment is cratering even as output rises, but members of this movement somehow believe such problems can be addressed so long as they continue to worship their idol.
Over the past week, Democrats have stopped making concessions. They are coming to the conclusion that if the Republicans are fanatics then they better be fanatics, too.
The struggles of the next few weeks are about what sort of party the G.O.P. is -- a normal conservative party or an odd protest movement that has separated itself from normal governance, the normal rules of evidence and the ancient habits of our nation.
If the debt ceiling talks fail, independents voters will see that Democrats were willing to compromise but Republicans were not. If responsible Republicans don't take control, independents will conclude that Republican fanaticism caused this default. They will conclude that Republicans are not fit to govern.
And they will be right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TERM LIMITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); MEDICARE (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



142 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
DEPARTING U.S. ENVOY SEES PROGRESS IN AFGHANISTAN
As he prepares to step down as the American ambassador to Afghanistan, Karl W. Eikenberry regrets that he will not be around to see what happens next. Mr. Eikenberry has spent nearly a decade working in Afghanistan, as a general during two tours, as a NATO official and for the past two and a half years as ambassador. PAGE A4
THAI PARTY FORMS ALLIANCE 
The Pheu Thai Party, the recent winner of national elections in Thailand, shored itself up against expected legal and political challenges by announcing the formation of a five-party coalition, even though it appeared to have won an outright majority of seats in Parliament. PAGE A5
DRUG SUSPECT CAPTURED
The federal police in Mexico captured a founder and senior leader of the Zetas drug gang who may be connected to the killing of an American agent earlier this year, Mexico's security ministry said. PAGE A6
POOR CARE CAUSED DEATH
Russia's Investigative Committee acknowledged that 37-year-old Sergei L. Magnitsky died in pretrial detention because prison authorities denied him medical care. PAGE A8
NATIONAL
FOR FIREARMS BUREAU,
A TOUGH CHAPTER
The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is under scrutiny over a gun-trafficking investigation in which federal agents knowingly let weapons slip across the Mexican border. The fracas over the operation, called Fast and Furious has renewed long-simmering questions about whether the bureau should continue to exist. PAGE A14
BANNING USED CAR MARKETS
Local governments in California are trying to curb unlicensed dealers of used cars by making it illegal to park any car with a ''For Sale'' sign in the areas where these markets proliferate. Los Angeles has already enacted a ban on two major streets, and the county is set to add more roads to that list after a final vote Tuesday. PAGE A11
NEW YORK
SENATOR WORKS TO INVOLVE MORE WOMEN IN POLITICS
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York has begun a campaign, called Off the Sidelines, to mobilize women across the country, in advance of the national elections next year and as evidence emerges that the slow but steady progress made by women in elective politics has begun to stall. PAGE A17
BUSINESS
SECOND QUARTER PROFITS OFFER READING ON ECONOMY
A string of second-quarter corporate earnings announcements due over the next few weeks could confirm that companies are beginning to have a harder time. Higher gas prices are soaking up already weak consumer spending, banks are struggling and labor costs may be starting to pick up, squeezing business's profit margins meaningfully for the first time. PAGE B1
'SEEDING' FUNDS GAINING
While seeding funds have been around for the better part of two decades, they are staging a recovery as more prospective hedge fund managers spill into the market but struggle to attract investors. PAGE B1
ARGENTINA SEEKS BIG PAYOFF
The widening use of new techniques to extract oil from shale is expected to help produce petroleum in Argentina and in other countries, as well. PAGE B1
SPORTS
RETIRED N.F.L. PLAYERS
FILE COMPLAINT
Negotiations toward a labor deal that would end the N.F.L. lockout were confronted with a new hurdle when a group of retired players filed a separate complaint against players and owners. PAGE B8
ARTS
PUSHING BACK THE LIMITS OF SPEECH AND MUSIC
Brian Eno, at age 63, continues to be one of the world's most sought-after record producers, making platinum sellers with the likes of U2 and Coldplay. He remains a prolific solo artist four decades into his career, turning out three albums in the past two years. PAGE C1
SCIENCE TIMES
IN THE SOUTH'S 'STROKE BELT,' MEMORY IS ALSO A WORRY
People in the American South are known to have strokes. Now researchers have found they are also more likely to have problems with memory. PAGE D1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A21
Joe Nocera PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); WOMEN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); USED CAR DEALERS (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (84%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (84%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRISONS (68%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (55%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); THAILAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



143 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Enhancing Online Security

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Cloud Darkens'' (editorial, June 30) rightly advocates for increasing online security, but doesn't mention a key component missing from most proposals to thwart cyberattacks: increased disclosure from hacked companies regarding the impact on customer data. 
The revelation that the online document-storage service Dropbox tried to hide a glitch in its network that allowed any user to log into any account is but one of several examples of companies failing to adequately disclose vital information about customer data, how it is being used and what steps are being taken to mitigate the effects of cyberattacks.
The need for greater disclosure is clear: cyberattacks represent one of the greatest challenges facing modern businesses and are costly to economies and society alike. According to a 2004 report by the Congressional Research Service, targeted companies suffer an average loss in stock market valuation of between $50 million and $200 million, with total consumer and business losses estimated at more than $200 billion a year.
We may never be able to eradicate the pernicious effects of cyberattacks. But we can ensure that the public is not victimized twice, by pushing for more timely and transparent disclosure from affected companies. Anything less allows the hackers to win, while the public continues to lose.
ROSANNA M. FISKE Chairwoman and Chief Executive Public Relations Society of America New York, June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); PUBLIC RELATIONS SOCIETY OF AMERICA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



144 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Judges Quitting At Unusual Rate As Salaries Lag

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

 BODY:
There is perhaps no more fitting finale to a long legal career than a judgeship. Ascending the bench after years appearing before it can bring power, respect, personal satisfaction, reasonable hours and, often, free parking. There have traditionally been few steps beyond: Retirement. Or death.
But across the country -- and in New York, more than most places -- being a judge has in recent years come with one big negative: the salary. New York judges have not had a raise in 12 years, making the state one of the more extreme examples of a growing pay gap nationally between judges and other professionals, including partners at top law firms, who can earn 10 times the salary of the judge before whom they are arguing a case. 
Now, for the first time in memory, judges are leaving the bench in relatively large numbers -- not to retire, but to return to being practicing lawyers. Turnover in New York has increased rapidly in the last few years: nearly 1 in 10 judges are now leaving annually, a new study shows.
In New York State, at least a dozen have resigned and explicitly cited the pay. The latest is James M. McGuire, a judge on the intermediate state appeals court in Manhattan, who last week resigned his position at the white marble courthouse on Madison Avenue. His judicial salary was $144,000. He stepped down to be a partner at a law firm, Dechert LLP, where average partner pay is $1.4 million.
New York, as the state with what officials say is the longest judicial pay freeze, is the focus of a national debate about whether controversial rulings, court corruption and politicized judicial campaigns have so eroded support for courts that there is no constituency for increasing judges' pay. ''I never expected to get rich as a judge, but I never expected to get poor either,'' said Robert A. Spolzino, who resigned as an appellate judge in Brooklyn two years ago to return to law practice.
Judges in New York were the best paid nationally in the 1970s. But their salaries now are ranked 46th in the country when measured by the cost of living, according to the National Center for State Courts.
Critics contend that some judges do not work very hard and that many of them would never earn the profession's top pay. Eric A. Posner, a University of Chicago law professor, argued in a law review article in 2009 with two other law professors that there was no evidence that better-paid judges did a better job.
''The absence of raises,'' he wrote in a recent e-mail exchange, ''is a problem only if judges weren't overpaid to begin with.''
Indeed, in a series of interviews, judges acknowledged that it could be difficult to make the case for a judicial pay raise in hard economic times. Justices of New York's highest-level trial court, the State Supreme Court, make $136,700. The chief judge of the state makes $156,000. Across the country, ''there is a devaluing of the job that judges do,'' so there is little pressure to pay them well, said Seth S. Andersen, the executive director of the American Judicature Society in Des Moines, which studies and evaluates judicial systems.
Current and former judges described the pressures they felt in fending off offers and trying to pay for mortgages and tuition bills. Mr. Spolzino, 52, said he had expected that he would remain until retirement, as judges did in the past.
''It's very heady when you walk into a room and everybody rises, people laugh at your jokes,'' he said.
Emily Jane Goodman, a State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan, said the practical effect of her stalled pay was that she had to sell a summer home in the Hamptons and was having trouble paying for increasing fees on her two-bedroom apartment in the city.
''Here I am,'' Justice Goodman said, ''in a position where I'm working to achieve justice for other people and I don't feel that I'm experiencing justice.''
On one of his final days at the Appellate Division on Madison Avenue, Justice McGuire, who was once chief counsel to Gov. George E. Pataki, said he had grown increasingly dismayed as the state failed year after year to raise judicial pay.
''I tormented myself for the longest period of time about whether I should go, because I love the work,'' he said. ''And then I realized, 'I've got no choice. The only responsible thing for my family is to go.' '' Justice McGuire, 57, has two children, ages 5 and 3.
In New York, the financial pressures are particularly intense because top law firms compete to hire lawyers -- and, now, judges. In response to questions for this article, the state's Office of Court Administration studied judicial attrition. The analysis found that in 1999, 48 of the 1,300 state judges left their positions. Last year, 110 judges left, with the number of departures increasing sharply over the last five years.
New York's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, said in an interview that the departures showed only part of the problem. ''Why would a talented lawyer,'' Judge Lippman asked, ''want to join an institution that hasn't had even a cost of living increase in 12 years?''
The State Legislature's failure to increase judicial pay since 1999 was the subject of bitter political disputes and court battles before legislation passed in November creating a commission on judicial salaries. It is expected to decide by September whether state judicial salaries will increase and by how much.
Nationally, many judicial salaries have lagged behind the pay not only of top lawyers, but also of some academics, school administrators, elected officials and even some courthouse employees. In New York City, some law clerks earn more than the judges they work for.
The chief justice of the United States, John G. Roberts Jr., has noted that federal judicial salaries have slipped below the pay of top law school deans and other law professors and has said the pay gap could undermine the strength of the federal courts.
The salaries of state trial judges nationally rose 34 percent to a median of $116,100 in the decade ending in 2005. But during the same period, the median partners' share of profits at large law firms jumped 141 percent to $957,500, Roy A. Schotland, an emeritus law professor at Georgetown, showed in a law review article. In an interview, Professor Schotland, who studies state courts, said that, nationally, stagnant pay was ''the single most important problem for our courts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James McGuire, a judge on the intermediate state appeals court in Manhattan, resigned last week to be a partner at a law firm.
 Emily Jane Goodman, a State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan, said she was having trouble paying for apartment fees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); COST OF LIVING (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



145 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: For Film Graduates, An Altered Job Picture

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- One after another, touring groups of prospective students and their parents stopped late last month to pose for pictures around a bronze Douglas Fairbanks, who wields his sword in a courtyard fountain here at the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts.
Not even the imposing Mr. Fairbanks, a founder of the film school, has kept newcomers at bay. But another round of graduates is now hitting the street, in greater numbers and perhaps better equipped than ever before, to pursue opportunities that have seldom been more elusive, at least where traditional Hollywood employment is concerned.
As home-entertainment revenue declined in the last five years, studios reduced spending on scripts from new writers, cut junior staff positions and severely curtailed deals with producers who once provided entry-level positions for film school graduates. Yet applications to university film, television and digital media programs surged in the last few years as students sought refuge from the weak economy in graduate schools and some colleges opened new programs. 
''It's becoming an increasingly flooded marketplace,'' said Andrew Dahm, who in May graduated from the Peter Stark producing program at U.S.C. with a master's degree and an expectation that he would work for two or three years as a low-paid assistant in lieu of the junior executive jobs that were once common.
''Working as an assistant for six years is not unheard of,'' Mr. Dahm said. He estimated that perhaps a quarter of the two dozen graduates in his class had lined up assistant jobs; about as many, like himself, are still looking for similar work, he said, while the rest are writing screenplays or otherwise preparing projects that might open a path into the business.
At U.S.C. about 4,800 would-be students applied for fewer than 300 slots next fall, up from about 2,800 applicants the year before. Educators at established film and television programs like those at New York University, the University of Texas, Loyola Marymount University and the University of California, Los Angeles, said they had seen a similarly sharp step-up in the number of students seeking what used to be called film education but now typically embraces the production of video games and Webisodes and virtually any medium in which the pictures move.
By and large those established programs have kept enrollments steady. But an expanding number of new film and media programs at other colleges around the country helped feed what appears to be a bumper crop of graduates in the academic year that just ended.
Several deans and other administrators said they were not aware of precise statistics documenting growth across the field. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said 136 institutions in the United States submitted entries for its Student Academy Awards program this year, up by a third from 102 in 2009.
''I've never seen a major start with so many students in it so quickly,'' said David D. Lee, dean of the Potter College of Arts and Letters at Western Kentucky University, which last year added an undergraduate film and television production program. It now has 84 majors, many with only a vague notion of the future for which they are training. ''I'm going to make a career that probably doesn't even exist right now,'' was Mr. Lee's description of the prevailing ethic.
While the number of applications is up, the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University some years ago cut the number of graduate students in its film school to 36 from about 50, said the school's dean, Mary Schmidt Campbell. At the same time, the school sharpened its professional focus by allowing students to submit a full-length feature film as a thesis project. In effect, that turned an investment in film school, which can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, into a direct investment in a movie. Cary Fukunaga's ''Sin Nombre,'' a 2009 indie hit, was thus born at the school.
At N.Y.U. a privately endowed competition also gives alumni as much as $200,000 to direct a first film -- a powerful incentive that has tended to focus graduates and undergraduates alike on what was a classic film school goal, to make a feature-length movie. ''Even if they don't win, we find they'll go on to make a movie,'' Ms. Campbell said of graduates who enter the competition.
In Los Angeles, some institutions with traditionally close ties to the film industry have found that both opportunity and student attitudes are shifting.
At U.S.C.'s School of Cinematic Arts, according to its dean, Elizabeth M. Daley, career-oriented students have increasingly looked toward animation, visual effects and video-game development for job prospects. But Ms. Daley also said she had been surprised to see critical studies emerge as a hot major among students, some of whom are inclined to see film school less as a ticket to jobs than as a path to understanding of media and the arts.
''It's something that's close to the zeitgeist of our times,'' Ms. Daley said of the sudden vogue for that more contemplative side.
Some educators are encouraged by the current configuration.
''I actually think there's more opportunity,'' said Teri Schwartz, dean of the U.C.L.A. School of Theater, Film and Television. Careers in the arts, she said, have always been uncertain, but digital media give current graduates more points of entry.
At Loyola Marymount's School of Film and Television, Stephen Ujlaki, a new dean who worked for years as a film and television producer, contends that film training should leave students with a knowledge of the arts and a business savvy that will get them through lives that are bound to move in unexpected directions.
The ''majority of students majoring in film and television will not be having careers in those professions,'' Mr. Ujlaki wrote in an e-mail. ''How about creating an environment which encourages creativity and risk-taking if you're educating someone in the arts?''
So far, it has worked that way for Ruth Fertig, who last year won a Student Academy Award for a documentary, ''Yizkor,'' about her grandmother's experience in a concentration camp, after having gotten a graduate degree in film from the University of Texas, Austin.
''I have a day job,'' said Ms. Fertig, who spoke by telephone from New York, where she works, mostly on social-media projects, for the International Rescue Committee, a nonprofit that assists refugees.
Ms. Fertig said she remained confident about finishing her pet project, a full-length documentary on the State of Franklin, which had a brief and contentious history as a proposed autonomous unit in what was then the western part of North Carolina after the Revolutionary War.
''If we can stay mobilized, committed and enthusiastic,'' she said, ''we'll be fine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at a summer directing class at the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts, whose recent graduates have found job hunting tough. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ruth Fertig, who won a Student Academy Award. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FILM SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FILM (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); WRITERS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



146 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Complaints Lead to Ban On Pop-Up Car Markets

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
WALNUT PARK, Calif. -- They show up bright and early on Saturday mornings, parking cars and trucks along the side of Pacific Boulevard and polishing them inside and out. Once they have chalked prices onto the windshields (an old Honda Civic for $1,900) they are open for business: a pop-up used car lot on the side of the road.
But like so many other pop-up markets in Southern California, the dealerships are unlicensed, unregulated and, according to public officials, illegal. 
Now, local governments are trying to curb the unlicensed dealers by making it illegal to park any car with a ''For Sale'' sign in the areas where these markets proliferate. The City of Los Angeles has already enacted a ban on two major streets, and the county is set to add Pacific Boulevard and many more roads to that list after a final vote Tuesday.
''This attempt to use the street as a place of business creates a hazard for businesses and residents who pay taxes to maintain those streets,'' a Los Angeles County supervisor, Gloria Molina, said. ''We are trying to correct a public nuisance.''
These used car markets have appeared all over Los Angeles County in the past 15 years, especially in the largely Latino communities southeast of Los Angeles like Walnut Park, where they conduct business entirely in Spanish.
Pacific Boulevard, in particular, has developed a reputation as a place to get a bargain on used vehicles, and people come from all over East Los Angeles. Fernando Perez, a local landscaper, took his son with him on Saturday to look for a used truck.
''A dealer is probably a better place to go, but with the economy like it is, I come here,'' Mr. Perez, 37, said. He had his eye on a blue Ford Explorer chalked for $5,500. ''At a dealer, this car would cost double,'' he said.
Local residents and business owners, however, complain that car dealers clog traffic and hog parking spaces, which are hard enough to come by with five million cars on the road in Los Angeles County.
''They park in front of the businesses and just leave the cars there all weekend, so the customers trying to come in and shop in the area have nowhere to park,'' said Eddie Carvajal, owner of M&M Furniture on Pacific Boulevard. ''Even when they take a car for a test drive, they pull another vehicle into the space so they don't lose it.''
Though it is illegal to operate a car sale business without a license in California, county officials call the law almost impossible to enforce.
The dealers hang around in a nearby park, playing cards or lying on park benches, waiting for customers to call. County officials say they bring the cars in from mechanic shops and nearby dealerships, in hopes of moving vehicles that have not sold. Many of the cars have the same phone numbers listed on them. Mr. Carvajal said sellers sometimes dropped cars off on tow trucks, two or three at a time.
When the dealers saw a photographer snapping pictures of the chalked windows, they quickly wiped the prices off all the windshields. They all denied they were selling cars -- one man polishing a car ran away when a reporter approached him, and five others in the park said they were waiting around for a party that would start later. One pointed to a man sleeping on a bench and said, ''It's his birthday.''
The used car markets are only the biggest and most visible of the many unlicensed industries that flourish here. On Saturday morning, men rode up and down Pacific Boulevard on bicycles, selling watermelon, papaya and cucumber out of plastic containers. At night, the street becomes a hub of prostitution, local business owners said.
Local governments have tried to combat these weekend car dealerships for more than a decade. Los Angeles briefly banned parking with a ''For Sale'' sign anywhere in the city. But in 2006, the ordinance was struck down in court on First Amendment grounds, and since then underground car markets in Southern California have continued to grow.
County and Los Angeles city officials say the new laws, which single out only certain streets, are narrow enough to stand up to a legal challenge this time.
But not all of the people selling cars here are underground dealers. Gelacio Chacon, 20, took his car to Walnut Park because he knew people came to Pacific Boulevard to buy cars. He put a ''For Sale'' sign up in the window and sat nearby, waiting for someone to call.
The new law, which would prevent anyone from parking on the street with a ''For Sale'' sign, would affect people like Mr. Chacon trying to sell their own cars, as well as the underground dealers. On the first offense, a car with a ''For Sale'' sign would be ticketed; the second time, it would be impounded.
Peter Eliasberg, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, which brought the lawsuit against the citywide ban in Los Angeles, remained skeptical about the new laws.
''There are huge problems with these ordinances,'' Mr. Eliasberg said. ''There are other ways you can target the problem if people are really using these streets as outdoor malls for cars. Someone who lives in the neighborhood should be able to park there with a sign up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eddie Carvajal, the owner of M & M Furniture on Pacific Boulevard, said the pop-up dealerships took up valuable parking spots near his business.
A ''For Sale'' sign in a car parked along Pacific Boulevard in Walnut Park, Calif., a common spot for pop-up used car markets.
Roberto Vargas inspecting a vehicle on Pacific Boulevard. A county official called the used car market ''a public nuisance.''
 Los Angeles County is trying to make it illegal to park any car with a ''For Sale'' sign along Pacific Boulevard in Walnut Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); USED CAR DEALERS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); NUISANCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



147 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4112 words

HEADLINE: A City's Wrenching Budget Choices

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
WILMINGTON, N.C. -- When Engine 5 pulled up to a burning house on Woodlawn Avenue early on March 19, the firefighters were told that a man might be trapped in the back left bedroom. As two firemen trained a hose toward that corner, Capt. Don Ragavage crawled through smoke and flames to search for the missing resident.
It was an inopportune moment for the water pressure to plummet. But that is what happened when Engine 5's motor, strained to the limit by 16 years and more than 100,000 miles of hard service, abruptly sputtered and died.
Only a month earlier, the fire chief, Buddy Martinette, had lobbied the City Council to replace the cantankerous engine at a session devoted to the latest of Wilmington's six consecutive budget gaps. 
''The mechanics really don't think it will make it,'' the chief warned at the time.
''You need another mechanic,'' shot back Charlie Rivenbark, the Council's foremost fiscal curmudgeon.
Mr. Rivenbark was not smiling, and once the scattered snickers quieted, none of his colleagues took issue. The fire truck fell off the table for the fifth year in a row.
Wilmington, N.C., is not Camden, N.J., which laid off half its police force this year. It is not Detroit, which is closing half of its public schools.
But like local governments across the country, the City of Wilmington has been demonstrably diminished by five years of unyielding economic despair. That a place like Wilmington, until recently a real estate boom town, would defer a purchase as essential as a fire truck for even one year, much less five, speaks to the withering toll.
In repeated visits over six months, Wilmington revealed itself to be typical of hundreds of American cities where the relentless drip-drip-drip of yearly contractions has gradually arrested civic momentum. As they wrangled over the 2012 budget, the city's recession-weary mayor, Bill Saffo, and his fellow Council members faced a menu of increasingly distasteful options.
For Mr. Saffo, 50, a second-generation developer whose family had prospered with the area's growth, the notion of presiding over a shrinking city was hard to stomach. Already a light sleeper, he was down to about four hours a night as a series of haunting tradeoffs -- and a looming July 1 budget deadline -- confronted him in the dark.
Padding around his house in a Pittsburgh Steelers T-shirt, while his wife, Renee, still slept, Mr. Saffo would flit from worry to worry. With the city facing a shortfall equal to 8 percent of its revenues, the mayor wondered whether this would be the year the Council had to close a fire station, and compromise emergency response times. Would the city have to withhold merit raises from employees for the third year in a row, and further demoralize valued workers? Could it keep the streets navigable by continuing to patch potholes rather than repaving?
''It gnaws on you day and night,'' Mr. Saffo, a centrist Democrat, said. ''Are the policy decisions we're making helping rather than hurting? Are we doing everything we possibly can? You do stay up and think about this stuff.''
As a diversion, the mayor would surf North Carolina news sites in search of fiscal doom in other cities, ''just to make sure I'm not the only one going through this.'' But Wilmington always pulled him back.
He was running for re-election in November and he badly wanted to beef up the city's police presence downtown, where a rowdy weekend bar scene had turned increasingly violent. But was it feasible to raise taxes to do so when voters had trended conservative (and angry) in local elections last year?
The mayor and the Council, who serve part-time, were still smarting from last year's decision to raise property taxes to make debt payments on projects they had approved when coffers were flush. If a tax increase was out of the question, would they need to raid the city's reserves? That, Mr. Saffo knew, could threaten Wilmington's capacity to rebuild if a hurricane smacked the Carolina coast this summer.
''We've had to make some pretty tough choices,'' Mr. Saffo said one afternoon in his City Hall office. ''We actually do make decisions where people can feel it and see it and touch it, and if they don't like it they let you know about it.''
He pinched his brow with his thumb and forefinger.
''How you play this tough hand will determine how your community is going to come out of this,'' he said. ''You can hunker down and not invest in anything and then have to play catch-up, or you can continue to invest and find ways to improve so we can catch that economic wave up.''
Revenues Take a Fall
What makes Wilmington's reversal so striking is that the city had so much going its way.
Until 2007, the general fund budget for this endearing port of cobblestone streets and moss-draped oaks had been expanding by about 7 percent a year. Fueled by in-migration and a series of annexations, the population surged 40 percent for the decade, to 106,000.
The growth helped pay for glittering capital projects all over town -- a convention center on the Cape Fear River, a police headquarters with its own crime lab, a 20-mile bike and jogging trail, tennis courts and softball fields, a host of road and streetscape improvements. The mayor's calendar was crowded with ribbon-cuttings.
But by the time Mr. Saffo and the Council took on this year's $85 million budget, the collapse of the real estate market had so choked revenues that the finance department could no longer afford free coffee for its staff. Despite last year's increase in property taxes, which account for nearly two-thirds of the general fund, the city's revenues were still projected to be lower in 2012 than in 2008.
Wilmington's experience is not uncommon. Nationwide, the decline in municipal revenues has accelerated in each of the last four years, draining billions from direct services like police protection and garbage pickup. Local governments have shed nearly half a million jobs, and are expected to lag well behind any recovery in other sectors.
This year, they face the exhaustion of stimulus aid from Washington, deep cuts in federal Community Development Block Grants and belt tightening in state capitals newly controlled by Republicans. One of them is Raleigh, where Republicans have captured both houses of the General Assembly for the first time since Reconstruction.
Wilmington's Council had been closing shortfalls of 5 percent to 10 percent for several years, and the compounding effect was roughening the edges of a city that aggressively marketed its coastal quality of life.
Just the previous year, the city had eliminated its budget for planting spring bulbs and trees. Hours had been shortened at community centers and parks. Deep reductions in code enforcement had ballooned the inventory of derelict properties. Although eager to attract corporate investment, the city had eliminated its economic development recruiter.
If the average Wilmingtonian did not feel the impact every day, it was largely because city workers had borne the brunt. Through attrition and a selective freeze on hiring, the work force had been trimmed by 8 percent, to 794 positions. Between the elimination of merit pay and a big cut in the city's contribution to retirement benefits, the remaining employees had lost 10 percent of their earnings over two years.
Department heads fretted that once the private sector reheated, they would not be able to compete for employees. More immediately, morale was awful, particularly among police officers and firefighters who resented the expectation that they would do more for less.
One afternoon, three firefighters at Station 4 griped with little provocation about their stagnant salaries. They said they resented it when the brass ordered extra training or asked them to perform nonessential chores like distributing safety brochures.
''I make sure that I take care of my equipment,'' said Andrew Comer, a master firefighter. ''I do my job well when I respond to calls. But I'm not going to go above and beyond to try to make this department any better right now. They're not doing anything to make my life any better.''
Mr. Comer said he could make ends meet only by working a second job in boat repair. Were he not saddled with his house, he said he might join the co-workers he knows are searching for work elsewhere.
''People say, Be thankful you have a job,'' he said. ''But it's hard to come in and be motivated when you know you're not going to get anything in reward.''
A pair of police officers walking a downtown beat one Friday night saw it the same way. Officers had become less proactive and tended to simply wait on calls for assistance, they said.
''People say, 'I'm going to cover my calls but I'm not doing anything extra,' '' said Officer Kendall Murphy, a three-year veteran. '' 'I'm not going to go above and beyond. Why should I? I don't get raises.' It gets worse over time, and it's not just a few people.''
Budget Casualties
Despite Engine 5's failure last March, the house fire on Woodlawn Avenue ended without injury because another truck had quickly replaced the disabled engine. The firefighters eventually discovered that the missing resident had not been at home.
But Captain Ragavage, who conducted the hands-and-knees search, said it could have been a disaster.
''Let's say the house was a little bigger and we were deeper into it,'' he said. ''The fire could have overwhelmed us.''
The fire chief had begged for years to replace the truck, which would cost $730,000 but could be financed with a first-year installment of $103,000. The truck had logged 863 hours in the repair shop in 2010, almost as much as the other 10 engines combined. Its drivers routinely took roundabout routes to fires to avoid even slight inclines or traffic lights that might stall their momentum.
Deferring equipment purchases and maintenance had enabled the mayor and the Council to protect manpower in the police and fire departments, which consumed almost half of the city budget. But the casualties were mounting.
The police chief badly needed new cruisers and car-mounted cameras. The cameras, which had been breaking at the rate of one a month, occupied a special place in the department's arsenal because in 2007 a video had absolved an officer in a fatal shooting that threatened to ignite the community.
The chief, Ralph Evangelous, also had no money to hire five officers to supplement the new downtown patrol unit he had formed by shifting personnel from other beats.
The need was pressing on warm weekend nights, when Front Street more resembled Bourbon Street. Ninety-eight establishments held liquor licenses in a quaint central business district of 21 square blocks. And when Mugsy's Pub and Hell's Kitchen and the others closed simultaneously at 2 a.m., a toxic melange of students, Marines, townies and young women in Snooki-short dresses poured onto the sidewalks.
On a typical night, it was not uncommon for overwhelmed officers like Kendall Murphy to break up half a dozen fights. In January, a 19-year-old gang member had been stabbed to death in a brawl outside a downtown bar.
Mr. Saffo was acutely aware that it would take but one mugging of a business visitor to imperil bookings at the new convention center. ''That would be a bad black eye, for sure,'' he said.
Of all the fiscal degradations, perhaps most irritating to residents was the minefield condition of city streets. In 2010, the public services department had managed to resurface only one-fifth as much asphalt as in 2008, a mere 4.5 miles. Instead, in a futile game of whack-a-mole, a single city worker, John Diggins, rumbled about town in a pterodactyl-like pothole-filler called the Patcher, which spewed gravel and asphalt out of a pneumatic nose.
In 2010, the city had filled three times as many potholes as in 2008, simply because there were so many more to fill. But even at 125 a day, Mr. Diggins could not keep up. ''You like to get the job done,'' he said in frustration, ''but there just aren't enough hours.''
One afternoon in February, the public services director, Richard King, guided Mr. Saffo on a tour of the city's cratered streetscape. It would take $3 million a year for a decade to restore the streets to good condition, he told the mayor. For the 2011 fiscal year, he had received $750,000.
As they turned down Park Street, where the asphalt was cross-hatched with deep cracks, Mr. Saffo quipped that the roads were better in Afghanistan. ''I think I've seen enough,'' he told Mr. King. ''I've seen that we've got more needs than we have money.''
Into Public Service
This was not exactly what Bill Saffo had in mind when his father nudged him into local politics in 2003. He ran for City Council then with the goal of streamlining land-use restrictions that he felt were restraining the region's growth. Now he saw his mission as limiting the deterioration of essential services, or at least the public's perception of it.
The son and grandson of Greek immigrants, all from the island of Ikaria, Mr. Saffo went by his given name, Vassilios, until it befuddled his grammar school teachers. A hometown boy in every sense, he played football at Hoggard High and majored in political science at the University of North Carolina Wilmington .
As new highways opened access to southeastern North Carolina, and a nascent film industry conferred hipster appeal, Mr. Saffo joined with his father in developing subdivisions between town and the nearby beaches. Business was really good, until it got really bad.
From 2006 to 2010, residential and commercial foreclosure filings tripled in the Wilmington area and sales of single-family homes dropped by more than half. Mr. Saffo watched a number of competitors and local banks go under, and eventually propped up his weakened firm by merging with a Coldwell Banker franchise.
Councilman Saffo was elevated by his colleagues in 2006 when the mayor at the time resigned to take a banking job in Greensboro. Affable and presentable, with hangdog eyes and a vast mesa of graying hair, the new mayor proved a natural politician.
He maintained a ubiquitous presence at public events, where he greeted friends with a gravelly drawl that was somehow both Southern and Greek. If not saluting a constituent's football allegiances -- ''War Eagle!'' -- he was rarely without game -- ''Mark Kennedy, if that's not an Irish name I don't know what is.''
Mr. Saffo handily won two-year mayoral terms in 2007 and 2009, and by all accounts had remained popular. If he had a shortcoming, fellow Council members said, it was that he was more liked than feared, and that his reluctance to offend sometimes prevented him from articulating a more forceful vision.
Making Tough Choices
The squeeze on Wilmington's revenues would require Mr. Saffo and the Council to reassess which services were truly essential, which tasks could be re-engineered and which worthy programs might be sacrificed. But the first crack fell to the city manager, Sterling Cheatham, a veteran administrator who had worked in four cities before landing in Wilmington in 2002.
Under the city's weak-mayor form of government, it was the cool and controlled Mr. Cheatham who oversaw daily operations and formulated a budget blueprint for the Council's consideration. While Mr. Saffo was clearly the city's face, the mayor held but one of seven votes on the Council and wielded no veto. The job paid $19,080, including allowances for car and telephone.
The Council members -- three white men, two white women, and two black men -- were all elected citywide in nonpartisan races. Because they represented the same constituents, consensus tended to grow organically.
When Mr. Cheatham began working on the budget late last year, he understood that the mayor and the Council had already forged a broad understanding. They had no appetite for another tax increase. They wanted to maintain reserves equal to 15 percent to 20 percent of the general fund. And they hoped to avoid layoffs that might worsen unemployment, which remained around 10 percent.
Mr. Cheatham, who dealt daily with grumbling city workers and felt they deserved a break, suspected that Council members would again reject pay increases. But he also thought the politicians should have to make that call.
In December, he proposed the broad outlines of a spending plan that would restore merit pay and retirement benefits, put nearly $2 million into needed capital projects, and buy a fire truck, police cruisers and police car cameras. ''Everybody has a side of the street to walk on,'' he explained.
It would leave a gap of $6.7 million between anticipated revenue and spending, more than half of it due to the pay increases. Mr. Cheatham proposed to take the full amount from the city's reserves, reducing the balance well below the Council's threshold. Alternately, the Council could raise property taxes by about 15 percent.
Mr. Saffo felt the tug of the workers' plight. Whenever he dropped by Jimbo's, an all-night diner where he nursed his insomnia with coffee and eggs, the late-shift police officers would talk to him about their jobs and their pay.
But he also encountered exasperated taxpayers, like the waitresses and short-order cooks, who said they simply could not handle another increase. They were the ones, he assumed, who had helped elect a Tea Party-esque gadfly to the New Hanover County Commission last November, ousting an 18-year incumbent.
''The mood we saw out there,'' Mr. Saffo recalled, ''was, 'Hey, my 401K has become a 201K. I've lost my job. I'm mad, and I want to know who to blame.' You get painted with a pretty broad brush.''
At the Council's first budget work session, Mr. Saffo and his counterparts all but killed the pay package. ''I know they deserve raises,'' the mayor said, ''but I just don't see it. We've got to hold the line.''
Before the next session, Mr. Cheatham asked department heads to submit doomsday plans for cuts of 5 percent and 10 percent. Even the lower number would mean eliminating 47 positions, ending the recycling program and closing Fire Station 4, which covered the university and the medical center.
At the meeting, in a cramped conference room in the city's operations center, the finance director, Debra Mack, told council members that taking $6.7 million from the city's $16.8 million in reserves could threaten its AA+ bond rating. Ms. Mack reminded them that they had already drained the balance by more than $4 million over four years.
Mr. Saffo asked if the Council would feel comfortable taking $1 million from the fund. And in the odd way that the Wilmington City Council sometimes did business, with no vote, but no one posing any objection, the proposal morphed into policy. Mr. Cheatham left the meeting with the understanding that his next draft should avoid layoffs, withhold raises, defer the fire truck and other capital projects, and make only a minimal grab from the city's reserves.
Looking to the Capital
By the time the Council next met on the budget, in April, there were indications that mildly improved sales tax collections might cushion the worst cuts. But the mayor and the city manager also worried that the hole could deepen because of the budget battle under way in Raleigh.
Republican legislative leaders had proposed rolling back sales taxes and slashing billions in education spending proposed by Gov. Bev Perdue, a Democrat. It would mean a big hit on counties, and cities worried that in the dead of the night, in some session-ending deal, the legislature would requisition their revenues as well.
Mr. Saffo and Mr. Cheatham had attended a mayors' conference in Greensboro where the new House speaker and the Senate president pledged they would not float the tax burden downstream to cities.
But the mayors, many of them Democrats, remained suspicious of their new Republican overlords. ''It's only going to be a matter of time,'' Mr. Saffo predicted. ''It's like preparing for a hurricane and not knowing if it's going to be a Category 4 or Category 5.''
At the Council's budget session, held in an airport conference room as small jets taxied past the windows, the group sliced into Mr. Cheatham's proposed spending on construction projects. Again with a series of mumbles and nods, Mr. Saffo led his colleagues through no-win decisions to defer all sidewalk repairs and to cut by almost half the $1.8 million that Mr. Cheatham had urged for street resurfacing.
With the budget gap narrowed to about $1 million, Mr. Cheatham went back to work, choosing among the cuts offered by his department heads. He deleted programming for the elderly at community centers and ended the city's provision of umpires and scorekeepers for softball leagues.
On May 3, he presented the Council with a balanced recommended budget. He had found enough money to buy some of the needed police cars and cameras, but not enough to pay for the fire truck or downtown police officers.
What Mr. Cheatham did not know was that his fire chief, Mr. Martinette, was not ready to give up on replacing Engine 5. A week earlier, Mr. Martinette had called one of the Council's newest members, Kevin O'Grady, and invited him to his office to discuss the truck.
Mr. Martinette had never before circumvented the chain of command to directly lobby a Council member. But he had been impressed by Mr. O'Grady's penchant for steely analysis and correctly deduced that the councilman, a retired lawyer, might be persuaded to advocate for the truck.
''I thought that if I could get one person to put it back on the table I had a pretty fair shot,'' Mr. Martinette said.
The chief told the councilman that any money saved by deferring the new truck would be wasted on maintaining the old one. He said that a functioning truck would be crucial to his plans to restructure the department by closing four outmoded stations and building two modern ones. Once Mr. O'Grady learned that it could be had for an initial installment of $103,000, he was sold.
''If we don't spend that $100,000 and there's a fire and the truck doesn't get there and somebody's hurt, then how stupid were we?'' he asked.
At the Council's final work session, on May 19, Mr. O'Grady said that while he hated to drain the city's reserves, he felt the truck was not optional. ''This is something you go to savings for,'' he argued.
Not everyone agreed. ''Using that fund balance,'' Councilman Rivenbark said, ''is like paying your rent with a credit card. I've never voted against public safety, but I'm having a hard time getting my hands around it.''
As the discussion floated about the table, five members of the Council spoke for buying the truck, while Mr. Saffo joined Mr. Rivenbark in opposing it. With one eye on November, he argued that this kind of spending would ultimately force another tax increase.
''We're getting to a point,'' the mayor said, ''where I hear it on the street: 'I'm stressed out because I don't want to pay more taxes.' We still don't know what the state is going to do to us, and we're in a hurricane zone here. If Mother Nature hits us and the state hits us, we'll really have a double whammy.''
Later that day, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration forecast a worse-than-normal hurricane season.
The Votes Are In
The mayor was outvoted, and the longer he thought about it the more he felt the money would have been better spent on merit pay or downtown police officers. But he appreciated the tradeoffs that the Council, like most American families, had to confront. Save or invest? Borrow or pay as you go. When resources are scarce, which essentials become less so?
It was perhaps a measure of the Council's skill that when the city held its public hearing on the budget in May, the public did not show. Five social service agency directors came to offer thanks for their appropriations, but that was it.
On June 4, the North Carolina legislature passed the state budget, abiding by its pledge to protect city revenues. Unable to stomach the cuts to education, Ms. Perdue vetoed the bill, and then watched the General Assembly override her with help from conservative Democrats.
Three days later, the City Council unanimously approved Wilmington's budget on the first of two readings, with minimal discussion. On June 21, it took three minutes and 19 seconds to vote final approval of the four budget ordinances.
Mr. Saffo quickly turned his attention to his re-election campaign, although he had yet to draw an opponent. He knew that it would be a referendum on the city's handling of hard times, and that the decision to replace Engine 5 might serve as Exhibit A.
''At the end of the day,'' the mayor said, ''it all comes with a cost, and the citizens are going to have to decide whether they're willing to pay for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wilmington, N.C., is so strapped for cash that a single worker has the task of filling all the city's potholes. An interactive look at options in balancing the budget: nytimes.com/national. (A1)
Among the demands on Wilmington's budget is the policing of its downtown, which is awash in clubs and bars and where the police chief sought to expand a new unit by five officers.
A single employee operates the Patcher to fill potholes. John Diggins, who runs the machine, says, ''There just aren't enough hours.''
As the city adapts to tough times, some traditions go on. In April, the Cape Fear Garden Club Azalea Belles at the Azalea Festival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
Councilwoman Kristi Campos, Mayor Bill Saffo and Earl Sheridan, the mayor pro tem, listened as officials from nonprofit groups expressed appreciation for being kept in the budget.
Sheldon Goodwin, with Engine 5, which the fire department says is strained by 16 years and more than 100,000 miles of hard service.
As rehabilitation money has shrunk, some of Wilmington's public housing units have had to be boarded up and abandoned. (A13) CHARTS: Budget Woes: Wilmington's general fund budget has not recovered from the recession that began in December 2007. (Source: City of Wilmington, N.C.)
 MAP: Until 2007, Wilmington's revenues had been growing steadily. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (88%); CITIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); FIRES (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); MERIT PAY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (94%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



148 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Departing U.S. Envoy Sees Progress in Afghanistan, and Pitfalls Ahead

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and ROD NORDLAND

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- When Karl W. Eikenberry's father knew he had only a few months left to live, he told his son his greatest regret was that he would not be around to see what happened next.
That is how Mr. Eikenberry says he feels now, as he prepares to step down as the American ambassador to Afghanistan, after nearly a decade of working here, as a general during two tours, as a NATO official and for the past two and a half years as ambassador.
''One of the hard parts of leaving is you just don't know how some of the big things are going to turn out,'' said Mr. Eikenberry, quoting his father and drawing the parallel to his own imminent departure.
He will not be the only person to leave with that question: in the same three-week period, two other powerful figures will leave. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commanding general here, will lead the Central Intelligence Agency, and Lt. Gen. David M. Rodriguez, the No. 2 commanding general and the man who has been running the war day to day, will run the United States Army Forces Command, which prepares troops going overseas. 
The three have presided over a period when American military and civilian power and spending in Afghanistan were at their zenith, and their departures mark the end of an era.
From an American policy standpoint, the changing of the guard means little, but from the Afghan standpoint, in which a leader's personality can determine the policy, the triple departure, along with President Obama's June 22 speech on the withdrawal of troops, has stoked fears of abandonment, especially for Afghans who have depended on the Americans.
''Ambassador Eikenberry and General Petraeus, both of them leaving at the same time, maybe it doesn't affect the policy, but it affects the morale of the people,'' said Fawzia Koofi, a member of Parliament and a strong advocate of women's rights.
All three men have emphasized that the strategic partnership agreement -- now under negotiation -- will help guarantee firm American support.
They have said they are ''cautiously optimistic'' about Afghanistan, in the words of Mr. Eikenberry and General Rodriguez, but they have also made clear that questions loom about the government's capacity to provide services, about Pakistan's intentions and about the ability of the relatively inexperienced Afghan security forces to protect the country.
Afghans, by contrast, see a deeply unsettled landscape, where disaster is at least as likely as survival, where the decrease in NATO troops could make the country more vulnerable both to rapacious neighbors and to the Taliban. They see a government unable to accept the rulings of its own institutions in the case of elections and a dangerous standoff with the International Monetary Fund over how to overcome the paralyzing fraud at Kabul Bank, the nation's largest financial institution.
''The announcement of a significant drawdown and discussion of 2014 makes people afraid,'' said Ahmad Nader Nadery of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission.
''By 2014, all security responsibility will be in Afghan hands, so the leverage of the Taliban and support for the Taliban will be much more, and they will either take over or set terms that the government will have to listen to,'' he said. ''People are thinking how to prevent a total collapse,'' Mr. Nadery added.
Mr. Eikenberry, whose career here has tracked the trajectory of the war, from the almost heady optimism of the early days after the Taliban's fall to the recent foreboding that large portions of the country were at risk of again falling under Taliban influence, spoke enthusiastically about the United States' efforts, but did not try to predict the future.
The ambassador gave a rare on-the-record interview to The New York Times last week.
He warned that the current political impasse over Parliament could have long-term consequences for Afghanistan's future as a democracy and conveyed his sense that with the exception of the Afghan Army, which many Afghans already regard highly, there were profound questions about whether Afghan institutions would survive.
Ten days ago, a special court convened by President Hamid Karzai, which election officials and the international community say is illegal, ordered nearly a fourth of the seats in Parliament overturned. Parliament has responded by voting to censure judicial officials.
''Whenever the dust settles, it has to be a parliament that is accepted by the Afghan people,'' Mr. Eikenberry said.
The Kabul Bank crisis is another major concern, said international advisers, including the United Nations special representative for Afghanistan, Staffan de Mistura, because the International Monetary Fund has refused to renew its main credit program for Afghanistan, effectively halting aid from several major donors. Afghan efforts to reach an agreement with the monetary fund have fallen short. Longer-term economic issues are also looming.
An estimated 95 percent of the country's economic activity is derived from foreign aid and Western military expenditures, and Mr. Eikenberry warned of an economic collapse in Afghanistan as donors begin to reduce their spending here.
This year foreign aid from the United States peaked at $4 billion, but in the next fiscal year only $2.5 billion is planned for Afghanistan. The annual military budget now stands at nearly $120 billion and includes large amounts for development projects, more than $600 million in trucking contracts for Afghans to supply the NATO troops and nearly $12 billion annually to pay for Afghanistan's security forces.
''We are concerned there could be an economic recession or recessionary effects will be felt in 2013 and 2014,'' Mr. Eikenberry said.
General Rodriguez, who made his farewell tour of eastern Afghanistan last week with stops in Paktika and Ghazni and at Bagram Air Base, is acutely aware of the amount of money and jobs the military funnels into the Afghan economy and said he, too, was concerned about how to cement gains.
''We have to figure out how to build durability,'' he said. ''Progress has to improve exponentially.'' The general added, ''That is clearly doable.''
The American ambassador said he was departing with particular pride in two achievements. ''I'll leave here with the moniker of being the father of the Afghan Army, and for me that's a very big deal because it's one of the few institutions here in the state that's looked at as all national and credible.''
''The second major achievement is having led the civilian surge,'' he said, referring to the State Department's increase in diplomats to Afghanistan to 1,200 from 325; 400 of them are in the provinces working on reconstruction.
''I think on our watch we did make a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ambassador Karl W. Eikenberry counts his role in the ''civilian surge'' of diplomats among his top achievements in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Top officials leaving Afghanistan include Gen. David H. Petraeus, left, and Lt. Gen. David M. Rodriguez, above with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REED
 UNITED STATES NAVY, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ARMIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); WOMEN (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); ROBERT M GATES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



149 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Retired Players File Complaint, Complicating the N.F.L. Talks

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Negotiations toward a labor deal that would end the N.F.L. lockout were confronted with a new hurdle Monday when the group of retired players involved in the antitrust lawsuit against the league -- angered because they say their interests and representatives are being shut out by both sides in the talks -- filed a separate complaint against players and owners.
The class-action complaint was filed in Federal District Court in Minneapolis against the teams, the league, the players named in the Brady v. N.F.L. lawsuit and DeMaurice Smith, the head of the N.F.L. Players Association. It asserted that the sides were violating antitrust laws by negotiating settlement terms that improperly encompassed the rights of retired players in the time since the N.F.L.P.A. renounced its union status.
The complaint says that the current players and the association, with the N.F.L., ''are conspiring to depress the amounts of pension and disability benefits to be paid to former N.F.L. players in order to maximize the salaries and benefits to current N.F.L. players.'' 
And it says that while the N.F.L. is willing to commit additional money to retirees from within and outside the league's salary cap, the union ''has insisted that the sum within the salary cap be given to current players instead.''
''We feel we have a seat at the table, but we're having the chair pulled out from under us,'' said Michael Hausfeld, the Washington-based lawyer representing retired players.
''Both sides are saying, 'We'll decide what's in your best interests.' ''
Whether the complaint could throw a wrench into negotiations that are to resume Tuesday in New York will be determined by the court. It would first have to decide if retired players have standing to bring an antitrust complaint, because they are not active participants in the marketplace of the N.F.L.
The complaint seeks an injunction to halt discussions between the league and current players related to retiree issues, and it asks for a declaration that the players association cannot represent the interests of retired players in settlement or prosecution of the antitrust suit. If the court does not think an injunction is appropriate, the retired players are seeking treble damages.
But the real goal of the complaint is to have Judge Susan Richard Nelson, under whose orders the mediated negotiations are being held, instruct the mediator, the league and the current players to allow representatives of the retired players to be active participants in the negotiations.
Nelson, though, may be reluctant to do anything that could hinder the chances of getting a deal between current players and the N.F.L. completed, especially at this late date. An agreement among three parties is undoubtedly more difficult to achieve than one between two parties, and it is not unusual in multiparty cases to not have all parties in the room during negotiations.
The N.F.L. declined comment Monday. One of the lawyers for the players, James Quinn, said Monday night that he did not know about the complaint and could not comment.
Negotiators made some progress toward a settlement last Thursday and Friday. But negotiators probably have only until mid-July to reach an agreement in principle that would allow a condensed free-agency period if training camps are to open on time at the end of July and preseason games are to begin on time next month.
The league estimates that it will lose $200 million in revenue for each week that preseason games are missed, money that would be part of the salary cap in a new deal.
Retired players have grown increasingly frustrated in recent weeks that their benefits have not been addressed as negotiators have pressed to complete a deal to end the lockout. Parts of the complaint underscore the fissures between retired and current players, some of which have simmered for years.
Although the group of retired players filed its own lawsuit, which was combined by District Court with the Brady suit, representatives for retired players have not been involved in the most recent negotiations, which began in early June, despite public statements by current players and the league that they intend to provide improved disability and pension benefits for retired players in the new labor agreement.
The complaint says that in connection with proposals that the mediator, Judge Arthur Boylan, asked to be submitted in May, lawyers for the current players wrote an e-mail to lawyers for retired players proposing that the current players would negotiate the economic system issues like the salary cap and free-agency rules while lawyers for retired players would make the proposal on the retired-player issues.
The complaint also says that at least one former N.F.L. player who serves in a position with the association has complained privately about representatives for retired players being excluded from recent negotiating sessions.
Retired players were persuaded to file the complaint when lawyers for current players balked at setting aside money inside the salary cap -- money that is allocated annual revenue for current players -- for retired player benefits, arguing that anything inside the cap should belong to current players only.
The league has offered $320 million outside the salary cap -- from the total revenue pool the league would contribute that would not come out of current players' designated annual revenue share -- and $320 million inside the salary cap. That would be a total of $640 million for the 10-year deal, or about $64 million a year toward future retiree benefits.
Retired players are angry with current players and the league. The figures the league proposed are less than what advisers to retired players say is necessary to pay for appropriate benefits and pension adjustments; they say it would take closer to $200 million to $300 million a year just to bring the myriad benefits programs up to where they should be. (The complaint notes that as of last December, only 3,154 former players received pension benefits, for an annual outlay of $63.7 million.)
And the retirees are furious that current players want to keep for themselves the money the league is offering under the cap.
Retired players took this step reluctantly, Hausfeld said. They are mindful of the fragile state of negotiations and the short time left to complete a deal before parts of the season will be lost.
''On the one hand, they feel badly about this,'' Hausfeld said. ''On the other hand, if this opportunity passes, many of them won't live long enough for another opportunity.''
To streamline the process -- and, Hausfeld said, to avoid holding up the completion of a deal that would start this season on time -- retired players have offered to negotiate a dollar figure with the league and current players, based on what the retirees say are realistic projections of future costs. The retirees would then devise the programs in conjunction with the league after a new collective bargaining agreement is reached.
Retired players also want to be represented by their own organization -- the Retired Players Association -- that would be separate from the league and the current players association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); INJUNCTIONS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); STANDING TO SUE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



150 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Profit Lag May Hinder Stock Rally

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In this less-than-sparkling economy, Americans have at least been able to look to the rising stock market and corporate America's robust profits as two bright spots, but even these may now be dimming.
Stocks have seesawed much of this year as investors worried about higher commodity prices, the Japanese tsunami's impact on global supply lines and Europe's debt crisis.
Now a string of second-quarter corporate earnings announcements due over the next few weeks could confirm that companies are beginning to have a harder time.
Higher gas prices are soaking up already weak consumer spending, banks are struggling and labor costs may be starting to pick up, squeezing business's profit margins meaningfully for the first time. 
All of that could spell more trouble for the stock market. Stocks rallied sharply last week after the Greek Parliament passed austerity measures. But some analysts question how long the rally will last. If it does not endure, it could complicate the economic picture as these two pistons of the already sputtering economy, profits and the stock market, fire less powerfully.
''For the first time in this economic cycle, there is going to be a fair number of disappointments,'' said Doug Cliggott, an analyst at Credit Suisse, referring to the earnings reports. ''The economy is going to be without those drivers.''
Europe's debt crisis may be far from over. Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, said on Monday that a plan promoted by France for French and German banks to roll over their large holdings of Greek government debt would in fact amount to a default by Greece, raising questions about how the indebted nation could qualify for a much-needed second bailout.
On the other hand, some analysts are predicting a relatively rosy United States profits season that belies the continued grim domestic economic news. They think companies will do well, since consumers have made some progress in trimming their debt and may be prepared to start spending again. Energy prices have at least stopped going up.
''We are going to get good news out of the corporate sector and markets can move higher,'' said Jack Caffrey, equity strategist at J.P. Morgan.
The 5.4 percent jump in the Dow Jones industrial average last week, in one of its strongest weeks in two years, seemed to support that optimism.
Already some investment professionals are predicting that the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index may be back at 1,400 or higher by year-end, if not sooner; it closed at 1,339.67 on Friday. Some are making comparisons with last year, when after a few rocky months markets touched lows in the first week of July -- and soared for most of the rest of the year.
''With the exception of the bust of late 2008/early 2009, U.S. stocks are now the cheapest they have been in 20 years,'' Steve Sjuggerud, editor of True Wealth, an investment newsletter, wrote in June. He forecasts that the S.&P. 500 will be back at 1,450 by year's end.
But the bears believe that optimism is overdone.
In addition to Europe's troubles, they point to continued poor United States economic numbers.
Last month the Federal Reserve revised its expectations for economic growth down to a range of 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent, from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent in April. Many independent economists are more pessimistic. There is a risk that the economy will struggle further from budget and job cuts at the local and state levels, and even at the federal level, depending on the debate about the debt ceiling.
A further drag could be the end of the Fed's $600 billion asset buying program, which had been buoying stocks since last fall.
Companies had been socking away profits by, among other things, keeping down labor costs and increasing productivity, but their profit margins may now be squeezed as both their unit wage costs and investment spending begin to rise.
Credit Suisse expects the stock market to end the year below its current level, with the S.&P. 500 at about 1,275.
''Analysts are expecting blockbuster earnings numbers, but I am not so sure,'' said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial. ''We have a defensive strategy.''
Mr. Kleintop said corporate leaders would most likely reduce their earnings guidance for the second half of this year when they announce their results for the second quarter.
The early earnings reports have been mixed. FedEx reported net income up 33 percent for its fourth quarter, which ended May 31, compared with the same quarter a year earlier -- heartening the bulls who see the company as a good bellwether for the rest of the economy.
Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chairman, said in a conference call with analysts that the economy had been through a brief soft patch.
''We believe that the near-term softness in the economy will be temporary as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs and the Japanese economy recovers,'' he said. ''Going forward we see stronger economic growth.''
Nike reported strong gains in sales, especially in the key North America and China regions. But Oracle's earnings for the last quarter disappointed markets with subdued demand for computer hardware.
Other companies have provided some whispers about what might be coming by issuing preannouncements that provide guidance on whether their results will be better or worse than they had previously signaled.
According to Thomson Reuters, out of a total of 125 companies in the S.& P. 500 providing guidance through preannouncements, 81 were negative as of the end of June and 33 positive -- a higher negative-to-positive ratio than at the same time last year.
Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's, said the consensus among Wall Street analysts was for annual growth in operating earnings among S.& P. 500 companies of 15.6 percent in the second quarter, led by energy and materials companies.
This is strong growth but still represents a slowdown from the annual rate of 19.7 percent in the first quarter and 37.7 percent in the fourth quarter. In the whole of last year, operating earnings advanced 37.9 percent.
''We feel the economy has likely downshifted because of a combination of Japan and commodity prices -- it is a fragile economy,'' said Mr. Stovall, who is forecasting the S.& P. 500 index to be around 1,350 by year's end.
The reporting season will begin in earnest with results from the large Wall Street banks. They are likely to reveal an especially bruising quarter because of the choppy markets and subdued borrowing by households and companies.
Analysts have been rushing to take down their estimates. John McDonald, a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, said both stock and bond trading revenue for the biggest Wall Street banks could be off about 20 percent from a year ago.
More traditional banking did not fare much better. New regulations have ratcheted up expenses and are also starting to chip away at once-lucrative income streams, like overdraft charges on checking accounts and credit card penalty fees.
The banks are also bracing for a multibillion-dollar hit on the fees they collect from debit card transactions, despite some relief when the Federal Reserve released its final rules last week.
Higher capital requirements, meanwhile, could put pressure on some banks to lighten their balance sheets.
The fragile economy has made consumers and businesses more hesitant to take out new loans. That, along with low interest rates, has hurt lending profits. Mortgage income is expected to be sharply lower than a year ago, when a surge in refinancings helped prop up the banks' results.
The bulls should get a boost in the middle of the reporting season when big industrial companies that have large sales abroad are likely to show continued strong growth, helped by fast-growing emerging economies.
''The industrial sector is holding together well, supported by the emerging economies,'' said Nick Kalivas of MF Global. ''I don't detect any material slowdown.''
The strength of the euro against the dollar compared with a year ago should also help companies with large revenues coming from Europe.
But at the close of the reporting season, retail companies may once again underscore the continued depressed state of the American consumer -- and provide a downward pull on the market.
According to Mr. Kleintop of LPL Financial, the bulls and the bears will eventually have to compromise.
''In the end these two camps will come together,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Still a Difficult Environment for Investors: Though stock prices have rallied recently and are up for the year, expectations are that corporate profits grew more slowly in the second quarter than in the first, which could yet put a damper on stocks this year. (Sources: Standard & Poor's Capital IQ
 Bloomberg) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (88%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



151 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: More Folly in the Debt Limit Talks: Republicans now say they want a balanced budget amendment, too

 BODY:
Congressional Republicans have opened a new front in the deficit wars. In addition to demanding trillions of dollars in spending cuts in exchange for raising the nation's debt limit, they are now vowing not to act without first holding votes in each chamber on a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
The ploy is more posturing on an issue that has already seen too much grandstanding. But it is posturing with a dangerous purpose: to further distort the terms of the budget fight, and in the process, to entrench the Republicans' no-new-taxes-ever stance. 
It won't be enough for Democrats to merely defeat the amendment when it comes up for a vote. If there is to be any sensible deal to raise the debt limit, they also need to rebut the amendment's false and dangerous premises -- not an easy task given the idea's populist appeal.
What could be more prudent than balancing the books every year? In fact, forcibly balancing the federal budget each year would be like telling families they cannot take out a mortgage or a car loan, or do any other borrowing, no matter how sensible the purchase or how creditworthy they may be.
Worse, the balanced budget amendment that Republicans put on the table is far more extreme than just requiring the government to spend no more than it takes in each year in taxes.
The government would be forbidden from borrowing to finance any spending, unless a supermajority agreed to the borrowing. In addition to mandating a yearly balance, both the House and Senate versions would cap the level of federal spending at 18 percent of gross domestic product.
That would amount to a permanent limit on the size of government -- at a level last seen in the 1960s, before Medicare and Medicaid, before major environmental legislation like the Clean Water Act, and long before the baby-boom generation was facing retirement. The spending cuts implied by such a cap are so draconian that even the budget recently passed by House Republicans -- and condemned by the public for its gutting of Medicare -- would not be tough enough.
Under the proposed amendments, the spending cap would apply even if the government collected enough in taxes to spend above the limit, unless two-thirds of lawmakers voted to raise the cap. More likely, antitax lawmakers would vote to disburse the money via tax cuts. Once enacted, tax cuts would be virtually irreversible, since a two-thirds vote in both houses would be required to raise any new tax revenue. It isn't easy to change the Constitution. First, two-thirds of both the Senate and House must approve an amendment, and then at least 38 states must ratify the change.
But expect to hear a lot about the idea in the days ahead and in the 2012 political campaign, with Republicans eagerly attacking Democrats who sensibly voted no.
Democrats, undeniably, have a tougher argument to make. A fair and sustainable budget deal will require politically unpopular choices on programs to cut and taxes to raise. Americans deserve to hear the truth: There is no shortcut, no matter what the Republicans claim. Nor is their urgency to impose deep spending cuts now, while the economy is weak, as Republicans are insisting.
What is needed is enactment of a thoughtful deficit-reduction package, to be implemented as the economy recovers. If politicians respect the voters enough to tell them the truth, the voters may reward them at the polls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); DEBT CEILING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); POLITICS (64%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); WATER QUALITY (50%); MEDICAID (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



152 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Higher Education and Higher Salaries

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Even for Cashiers, College Pays Off'' (Economic Scene, Sunday Review, June 26):
David Leonhardt makes a compelling case for a college education. Yet he presents college as a primarily private benefit and thus plays into the hands of members of Congress who are intent on cutting student financial aid. 
The salary bumps reported for cooks, cashiers, child care workers and others translate into increased local, state and federal tax revenues. College graduates are less likely to consume tax dollars spent on law enforcement, Medicaid and welfare. Those who complete college are much more likely to start new businesses and grow existing ones, sources of jobs our economy so desperately needs.
In short, for our communities and for our nation, college does indeed pay off.
RICHARD GUARASCI Staten Island, June 26, 2011
The writer, former chairman of the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation, is president of Wagner College.
To the Editor:
Does the college wage premium exist because ''education helps people do higher-skilled work''? Or because a high school diploma doesn't mean what it used to?
The two are not mutually exclusive. David Leonhardt himself says that ''too many teenagers aren't ready to do college-level work.''
While education can help people do higher-skilled work, more college is not necessarily more high-level education. Many colleges today have to devote enormous resources to providing remedial classes, which by definition are not college-level, to deal with unprepared students. We not only have to improve colleges, as Mr. Leonhardt suggests; we also have to improve high schools.
ALEX YOUNG Durham, N.C., June 26, 2011
To the Editor:
Reasons to attend or not to attend college are almost always viewed in terms of good jobs in the future, as is the case with David Leonhardt's column. At the community college where I taught for 36 years, our humanities courses were valuable in so many ways disconnected from possible careers.
We read and questioned and talked and wrote. We asked what are our obligations to others, how do we find a way to live morally as well as to live well, what should we do about education, how do we judge our commitment to the community if it conflicts with the needs of family and loved ones, is extreme economic disparity unethical or immoral?
Students learned to appreciate the use of words and argument and art to explore ideas. Let us keep this in mind when we discuss the need for a college education.
GRETA COHAN White Plains, June 26, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); ETHICS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MEDICAID (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



153 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: As Shuttle Era Ends, Dreams of Space Linger

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
By April 1981 it seemed that the space shuttle Columbia had been part of the Florida landscape forever. Gleaming white in the sun by day and the floodlights that bathed it all night, the cluster of rockets, space plane and giant egglike fuel tank looked like a craggy Matterhorn transposed to the humid coast.
It was surely too big to ever move, and yet the fate of the nation seemed to depend on its doing so. Months earlier I had traveled with a group of science writers on a weeklong junket through the nation's space centers. In California, we walked underneath the next shuttle, Challenger, where Rockwell workers were gluing the fragile heat-resistant tiles to its body. At Cape Canaveral, our private jet touched down on the shuttle landing strip and we were taken within hailing distance of the waiting shuttle, close enough to see soldiers patrolling the launching pad with machine guns.
The shuttle was a big deal then. But now, after 30 years of shuttle flights, the last mission ever is being prepped for its launching on Friday. Humans are no closer to the stars than before, and the space program is in tatters. 
Until that trip past the pad in 1981, the space program was something I had watched on a grainy little black-and-white TV at my apartment in Cambridge, Mass. Raised on science fiction, I knew the script: First we take the Moon, then Mars. That in fact was the vision pushed in 1969 by NASA's administrator, Thomas O. Paine, and Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, but President Richard M. Nixon didn't bite and history didn't go according to plan.
By 1981, a decade after the glories of the Apollo Moon landings, it had been six years since Americans had last ventured into space, and editorialists were lamenting the ''retreat from space.'' The reusable space shuttle was supposed to make spaceflight cheap and almost as routine as air travel, and satellite launchings as uneventful as delivering the mail. There was money to be made in space and a slate of ''black missions'' to keep the nation secure.
But the shuttle was late and over budget. Those thermal tiles, vital to protecting it from the searing heat of re-entry, had an embarrassing habit of flaking off. Some people called it the Flying Brickyard.
Worse, overruns and delays had drastically depleted the agency's resources for science. NASA couldn't even afford to send a mission to Halley's Comet.
Most of the scientists I know would be thrilled to see humans exploring space, landing on Mars, for example -- they just don't think that science should pick up the check. Many of them were suspicious of the shuttle, both because of the cost drain and because making instruments like the space telescope compatible with it would compromise the potential science, restricting them to low earth orbit, for example, and making them hostage to the exigencies of human spaceflight.
But politically, if not technically, the shuttle and the space telescope needed each other.
The mountain did move on April 12, 1981. We got up at midnight to drive on back roads through Cape Canaveral Air Station and then eat peanut butter crackers in our cars waiting for the dawn and the new space age. When the shuttle's solid-fuel booster rockets went off, it was like a second sunrise blasting our greasy faces. The Alps vanished atop a biblical tower of smoke and flame.
Two days later, when John W. Young and Robert L. Crippen glided back down in the Mojave Desert, the double crack of Columbia's sonic boom sounded like a message from the gods. Elated to be arriving in dignity like test pilots rather than cargo plopping into the ocean, the astronauts proceeded to strut around the shuttle inspecting it for nicks and dings.
And so, soon we were in the era of the space truck to nowhere, easy travel to orbit and the sight of astronauts frolicking like weightless baby sea lions in the capacious shuttle decks and laboratories. Women, scientists, a congressman and a senator, not to mention an array of guest astronauts from other countries, logged time in orbit, performing scientific experiments, often on one another. Captain Young, who had been to the Moon twice, redefined the notion of the ''right stuff'' when he was pictured in his command chair in his reading glasses looking over flight plans. Judith A. Resnik redefined it further when her long curly locks floated on orbit like a dark corona about her head.
Ronald E. McNair, a physicist, brought his saxophone to play in space. There was talk of flying a schoolteacher in space, and even a journalist. We learned that about a third of astronauts suffered bouts of space sickness, until NASA declared that such topics were not fit for public discussion.
It was thrilling to watch astronauts blast off on smoke pillars, but after a while it was irritating that they weren't going anywhere but in circles around the Earth and the science they were doing was mostly boring compared with the results being beamed back from the Voyager spacecraft exploring the outer planets at considerably less expense and risk.
Why were we there? I recall one newspaper reporter asking out loud at one launching before answering himself. ''We're on a death watch,'' he said.
The shuttle had been declared ''operational'' after four flights, but it could never be routine. Gravity might be the weakest force in nature, as the physicists tell us, but the violence needed to overcome it and release us from the Earth was revelatory to me when I actually saw it in action up close.
Back then I totally bought the idea of reusable spacecraft -- after all, the space age had begun with rocket planes like the X-15 that went up and glided back down. But the shuttle's design had been compromised by politics and economics -- a more expensive and safer version would have put the crew far above, as on the towering Moon rockets, rather than surrounded by booster rockets and a giant fuel tank in the clunky arrangement that prevailed -- and NASA's managers were drinking their own Kool-Aid.
On the morning of Jan. 28, 1986, I was crossing the parking lot at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., on my way in for the last day of Voyager 2's encounter with Uranus, when a reporter from USA Today came running out and into a phone booth. I asked him about the impending launching of Challenger, with the schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe aboard. ''It blew up,'' he blurted.
I went inside to find my colleagues in the press room staring hollow-eyed at television screens. Half of the screens showed Uranus, looking like a big eye surrounded by its tenuous rings; the other half showed the Y-shaped cloud that was all that was left of Challenger and its crew of seven.
Buck Rogers dreams died that day. They died a second death on Feb. 1, 2003, when the Columbia broke apart on re-entry, killing another seven people, after foam insulation had punched a hole in the wing.
I didn't catch up with the space shuttle again until 1993, when I watched the astronauts train like underwater ballet dancers in a pool in Huntsville, Ala., to carry out repairs on the Hubble Space Telescope, which had been famously and humiliatingly launched with a misshapen mirror. Late one day, an engineer suggested that Story Musgrave, the lead astronaut on that crew, change his routine and turn around at one point to adjust his torque wrench. Dr. Musgrave dressed him down, saying such last-minute changes put the mission in danger.
The Hubble missions, five in all, were the shuttle's finest hours. In the end, of course, the Hubble did need the shuttle, and its astronauts. It all came to a wonderful high-tech, low-tech climax two years ago, when Michael J. Massimino, channeling his Uncle Frank fixing a car on Long Island, yanked a handrail off the side of the telescope to get at a broken spectrograph underneath it.
That spectrograph could someday give us a clue to finding another Earth.
Hubble is alone now with the stars, its vision as peerless as designed. But America still has no vision at all for its space program, no plan for where to go next or how.
I can't blame NASA for that. NASA works for the president, and the president can do only what Congress will give him or her the money for. And Congress answers to the people -- that is to say, its campaign contributors. They've all just been doing what they think they have to do, but an astronomer I know who grew up with the same science fiction dreams and expectations as I did once described himself as a member of the ''cheated generation.''
I no longer expect to see boot prints on Mars during my lifetime, nor do I expect that whoever eventually makes those boot prints will be drawing a paycheck from NASA, or even speaking English.
During shuttle missions, you couldn't wander past the old Saturn 5 rockets sitting outside at the Johnson and Kennedy Space Centers and not wonder in awe what giants had built these rockets that had sent humans all the way to the Moon. I can't help feeling that someday we'll walk past those shuttles now on their way to museums and admire their creature comforts and flexibility and the aerodynamic research that went into learning how to fly at Mach 25. And wonder who built them.
I wish Commander Christopher Ferguson and his comrades a safe and glorious flight aboard their flawed but magnificent chariot.
And bigger and braver dreams for us all in the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE THE CLOUDS: As seen from a passenger jet, the Endeavour lifted off from Kennedy Space Center, Fla., in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFANIE GORDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1)
OCEAN VIEW: Body boarding at Merritt Island, Fla., Donnie McBurney, left, and Chris Welch took in the launching of the Discovery on Oct. 29, 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGG NEWTON/REUTERS)
STS-1 First shuttle mission.
STS-7: Sally K. Ride is the first American woman in space.
STS-41B: First untethered spacewalks.
STS-51L: Loss of the Challenger 73 seconds after liftoff.
STS-26: Return to flight after Challenger disaster.
STS-31: Discovery carries the Hubble telescope into orbit.
STS-49: First three-person spacewalk captures Intelsat VI.
STS-61: First Hubble servicing mission, with five spacewalks.
STS-71: First shuttle docking with the Mir space station.
STS-88: First shuttle assembly flight to the I.S.S.
STS-107: Loss of Columbia and crew during re-entry.
STS-125: Final Hubble servicing.
STS-134: I.S.S. complete. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NASA) (D4) GRAPHICS: Countdown to One Last Mission: Each line shows one of the 135 space shuttle missions. (Source: NASA) (GRAPHICS BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DRAWINGS: COLUMBIA: 28 missions
CHALLENGER: 10 missions
DISCOVERY: 39 missions
ATLANTIS: 33 missions
 ENDEAVOR: 25 missions (DRAWINGS BY FRANK O'CONNELL) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (77%); SURFING (74%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (72%); WRITERS (70%); WEATHER (61%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); EARTH'S MOON (92%); MARS (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



154 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Stimulus Proposal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Whose Stimulus?'' (editorial, June 26):
You missed a key point in your editorial, which criticized proposals to provide a lower tax rate for repatriated funds while at the same time calling for more investment in infrastructure. These two ideas can be tied together in a way that would provide a needed stimulus for the United States economy. Here is how. 
An auction would be held for the right to repatriate $100 billion, less than 10 percent of the funds held abroad. The clearing price would be the highest tax that companies were willing to pay. Companies would place all or part of the remainder in an infrastructure bank and receive shares in the bank in return. They would have to hold the shares for a period of time.
This proposal creates a politically viable mechanism for financing an infrastructure bank that would greatly benefit the American economy.
REED HUNDT KEN BERLIN Washington, June 30, 2011
Mr. Hundt, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, is chief executive of the Coalition for Green Capital, a nonprofit organization that advocates for green banks at the state, federal and international level. Mr. Berlin is general counsel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (51%); EXECUTIVES (51%); LAWYERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



155 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Thai Party Forms Coalition Even as the Military Promises Not to Interfere

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- Thailand's politically powerful military offered a reassurance Monday that it would not challenge the election of a party controlled by the fugitive former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whom it deposed in a coup five years ago.
The election result was a reversal of the coup and a repudiation of the elite establishment that backed it, taking Thailand into a precarious future. 
The head of the victorious Pheu Thai Party and likely prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, 44, is a political novice. She is the youngest sister of Mr. Thaksin, who was forced from office in 2006 and now lives in Dubai, evading a jail term for abuse of power.
On Monday, Pheu Thai shored itself up against expected legal and political challenges by announcing the formation of a five-party coalition, even though it appeared to have won an outright majority of seats in Parliament.
The election result, like the ''red shirt'' street protests that ended in violence last year, challenged the established political and social order in which the poorer classes in Thailand have historically had little say. Mr. Thaksin, who served as prime minister from 2001 until his ouster, courted this mass base with populist economic policies and turned them into a political force.
Though there was no sign of a direct connection, the election resonated with events in the Middle East, said Charles Keyes, an expert on Thailand at the University of Washington in Seattle.
''There is a period in history going on right now that Thailand is part of,'' he said. ''There is a strong desire for more popular participation in the shaping of the political system.''
As the election approached and a Pheu Thai victory seemed increasingly likely, the military, which supported the losing Democrat Party, repeatedly denied that it would stage a coup.
The Thai military has staged 18 attempted or successful coups over the years, as much a part of the political process as electoral votes. ''I've said this several times,'' the defense minister, Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, said on Monday. ''We are not going to intervene.''
At the same time, the government's electoral commission said that it was investigating accusations of fraud and other violations that could disqualify some winning candidates and reduce the margin of the Pheu Thai victory. It said it would announce the final tally within 30 days.
Preliminary results showed Pheu Thai with 264 seats, more than half the total of 500 seats and enough to form a single-party government.
But with both electoral and political challenges in view, Pheu Thai immediately began negotiating with parties that could augment its hold on power and offer safety in numbers.
The losing Democrat Party is the party of the establishment -- royalists, old-money business owners and high-ranking military officers -- who have defended their place at the center of a traditional hierarchical system of power and wealth.
''I think what this has shown to the military and to the elite is that you cannot simply deny that there is a strong desire on the part of the working class for a significant influence on the political system,'' Mr. Keyes said.
The election result does not seem to have closed Thailand's bitter divide.
''The election is over but the hatred remains,'' said the English-language daily The Nation in a headline. It said that Ms. Yingluck had been ''thrust into a minefield of power.''
In an informal poll, another daily, The Bangkok Post, found that more than half of respondents believed that there would be more political violence in the future.
A businesswoman with no political experience, Ms. Yingluck would become Thailand's first female prime minister. After her victory, she denied that she would simply be a front for her brother. ''There is a lot of work ahead -- tackling economic woes and leading the country on the path of reconciliation,'' she said. ''These tasks fall upon me.''
At a news conference on Monday she said her government's priorities would be economic development and reconciliation, a vague term that was also used by the Democrat Party during its divisive period in power.
''Corruption is another problem we will solve,'' she said, repeating a campaign promise that also echoed the promises of earlier governments and was a charge leveled by leaders of the coup against Mr. Thaksin.
She promised to deliver on every promise from a campaign program filled with expensive handouts like tax relief, price supports and cash subsidies to the elderly.
Economists say they fear that implementation of these pledges could bring the economy to its knees. A promised 30 percent increase in the minimum wage, for example, could force many small businesses to shut down, they say.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yingluck Shinawatra, the former prime minister's sister, with her coalition partners in Bangkok the day after her party's victory. Her party has joined with four others to form a coalition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULA BRONSTEIN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); COUPS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



156 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Thirst for Fairness May Have Helped Us Survive

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
Among the Ache hunter-gatherers in eastern Paraguay, healthy adults with no dependent offspring are expected to donate as much as 70 to 90 percent of the food they forage to the needier members of the group. And as those strapping suppliers themselves fall ill, give birth or grow old, they know they can count on the tribe to provide.
Among the !Kung bushmen of the Kalahari in Africa, a successful hunter who may be inclined to swagger is kept in check by his compatriots through a ritualized game called ''insulting the meat.'' You asked us out here to help you carry that pitiful carcass? What is it, some kind of rabbit?
Among the Hadza foragers of northern Tanzania, people confronted by a stingy food sharer do not simply accept what's offered. They hold out their hand, according to Frank Marlowe, an anthropologist at Durham University in England, ''encouraging the giver to keep giving until the giver finally draws the line.'' 
Among America's top executives today, according to a study commissioned by The New York Times, the average annual salary is about $10 million and rising some 12 percent a year. At the same time, the rest of the tribe of the United States of America struggles with miserably high unemployment, stagnant wages and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Now, maybe the wealth gap is a temporary problem, and shiny new quarters will soon rain down on us all. But if you're feeling tetchy and surly about the lavished haves when you have not a job, if you're tempted to go out and insult a piece of corporate meat, researchers who study the nature and evolution of human social organization say they are hardly surprised.
Darwinian-minded analysts argue that Homo sapiens have an innate distaste for hierarchical extremes, the legacy of our long nomadic prehistory as tightly knit bands living by veldt-ready team-building rules: the belief in fairness and reciprocity, a capacity for empathy and impulse control, and a willingness to work cooperatively in ways that even our smartest primate kin cannot match. As Michael Tomasello of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology has pointed out, you will never see two chimpanzees carrying a log together. The advent of agriculture and settled life may have thrown a few feudal monkeys and monarchs into the mix, but evolutionary theorists say our basic egalitarian leanings remain.
Studies have found that the thirst for fairness runs deep. As Ernst Fehr of the University of Zurich and his colleagues reported in the journal Nature, by the age of 6 or 7, children are zealously devoted to the equitable partitioning of goods, and they will choose to punish those who try to grab more than their arithmetically proper share of Smarties and jelly beans even when that means the punishers must sacrifice their own portion of treats.
In follow-up research with older children and adolescents that has yet to be published, Dr. Fehr and his colleagues have found a more nuanced understanding of fairness, an acknowledgment that some degree of inequality can make sense: The kid who studies every night deserves a better grade than the slacker. Nevertheless, said Dr. Fehr, there are limits to teenage tolerance. '' 'One for me, two for you' may not be too bad,'' Dr. Fehr said. ''But 'one for me, five for you' would not be accepted.''
A sense of fairness is both cerebral and visceral, cortical and limbic. In the journal PLoS Biology, Katarina Gospic of the Karolinska Institute's Osher Center in Stockholm and her colleagues analyzed brain scans of 35 subjects as they played the famed Ultimatum game, in which participants bargain over how to divide up a fixed sum of money. Immediately upon hearing an opponent propose a split of 80 percent me, 20 percent you, scanned subjects showed a burst of activity in the amygdala, the ancient seat of outrage and aggression, followed by the arousal of higher cortical domains associated with introspection, conflict resolution and upholding rules; and 40 percent of the time they angrily rejected the deal as unfair.
That first swift limbic kick proved key. When given a mild anti-anxiety drug that suppressed the amygdala response, subjects still said they viewed an 80-20 split as unjust, but their willingness to reject it outright dropped in half. ''This indicates that the act of treating people fairly and implementing justice in society has evolutionary roots,'' Dr. Gospic said. ''It increases our survival.''
David Sloan Wilson, an evolutionary theorist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, sees the onset of humanity's cooperative, fair-and-square spirit as one of the major transitions in the history of life on earth, moments when individual organisms or selection units band together and stake their future fitness on each other. A larger bacterial cell engulfs a smaller bacterial cell to form the first complex eukaryotic cell. Single cells merge into multicellular organisms of specialized parts. Ants and bees become hive-minded superorganisms and push all other insects aside.
''A major transition occurs when you have mechanisms for suppressing fitness differences and establishing equality within groups, so that it is no longer possible to succeed at the expense of your group,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''It's a rare event, and it's hard to get started, but when it does you can quickly dominate the earth.'' Human evolution, he said, ''clearly falls into this paradigm.''
Our rise to global dominance began, paradoxically enough, when we set rigid dominance hierarchies aside. ''In a typical primate group, the toughest individuals can have their way and dominate everybody else in the group,'' said Dr. Wilson. ''Chimps are very smart, but their intelligence is predicated on distrust.''
Our ancestors had to learn to trust their neighbors, and the seeds of our mutuality can be seen in our simplest gestures, like the willingness to point out a hidden object to another, as even toddlers will do. Early humans also needed ways to control would-be bullies, and our exceptional pitching skills -- which researchers speculate originally arose to help us ward off predators -- probably helped. ''We can throw much better than any other primate,'' Dr. Wilson said, ''and once we could throw things at a distance, all of a sudden the alpha male is vulnerable to being dispatched with stones. Stoning might have been one of our first adaptations.''
Low hierarchy does not mean no hierarchy. Through ethnographic and cross-cultural studies, researchers have concluded that the basic template for human social groups is moderately but not unerringly egalitarian. They have found gradients of wealth and power among even the most nomadic groups, but such gradients tend to be mild. In a recent analysis of five hunter-gatherer populations, Eric Aiden Smith of the University of Washington and his colleagues found the average degree of income equality to be roughly half that seen in the United States, and close to the wealth distribution of Denmark.
Interestingly, another recent study found that when Americans were given the chance to construct their version of the optimal wealth gradient for America, both Republicans and Democrats came up with a chart that looked like Sweden's. There's no need to insult the meat in the land of lutefisk.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMATES (86%); MAMMALS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); EVOLUTION THEORY (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (90%); PARAGUAY (90%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



157 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: After a Blistering Start, the Pace of Mergers Takes a Midyear Pause

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
The revival in mergers this year has taken some time to catch its breath.
After a blistering start to the year, deal volume slowed down in the second quarter as uncertainty again weighed on the markets. While many deal makers say that the number of transactions will continue to rise, the pace of that activity remains uncertain.
Deals totaling about $1.4 trillion were announced in the first half of the year, according to Thomson Reuters data, a 35 percent increase over the same time last year. That is the strongest start to deal-making since the financial crisis, as corporate boards, armed with cash and cheap financing, felt comfortable enough to seek out growth by acquisitions. 
But the confidence of executives appears to have been shaken by fears of a slowing economic recovery and persistent worry over Greece's fiscal troubles. About $631.4 billion worth of deals were announced in the second quarter, down 20 percent from the first quarter.
The biggest question is whether management teams can be persuaded to pursue acquisitions they have already been weighing.
''Is this a real slowdown, or is this temporary?'' asked Mark Shafir, the global head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup. ''We think that unless there is a major slowing of world economy, there's some room to grow.''
Bankers and lawyers say that over the first half of the year, the majority of deals struck have been by strategic buyers looking to augment existing businesses. As some companies have struggled to find ways to grow organically, buying new business has gained favor in some corporate suites.
Johnson & Johnson's $20.8 billion acquisition of Synthes reflected the American health giant's desire to expand its presence in the increasingly lucrative medical devices sector. With low debt, $28 billion in cash on hand and enormous free cash flow, Johnson & Johnson was long seen by analysts as ready to make a big purchase.
It's unusual, but many deals announced this year have yielded rises in the stock of the acquirer. While many times the buyer's shares go down amid fears that the deal may be overvalued, advisers say that the phenomenon highlights shareholder approval in the right cases.
''Investors are being supportive and sometimes highly supportive of ideas that make sense,'' said Michael Boublik, Morgan Stanley's chairman of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas.
One of the consequences of the mostly stable economic conditions from the first half of the year is that potential buyers and sellers are finding it easier to come to an agreement over the valuation of a particular deal. The average premium for an American target company to its stock price four weeks before a deal announcement shrank to 30.7 percent, from 37.6 percent.
Takeovers by private equity firms in the first half also rose over the same time last year, to about $114 billion. But that is a decline from the latter half of last year, when the largest takeovers since the financial crisis, like the $5.3 billion buyout of Del Monte Foods, were announced.
Deal experts say that while buyout firms are still poised to benefit from the positive mergers environment, they face more constraints than they did in the credit boom. The resurgence of determined corporate buyers has made many auctions costlier. And while debt financing remains cheap and plentiful, private equity firms are more hard-pressed to write big equity checks.
And club deals - when several buyout firms band together to buy a target they could not afford on their own - have become less common, amid pressure by institutional investors.
''Our sense is that private equity activity levels are continuing to be more important to the M.& A. market than they were two years ago,'' said Stephen Arcano, the leader of the mergers practice at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. ''But I don't think we're poised for a surge in private equity activity.''
Yet private equity firms have been busy selling companies to generate returns for their investors. In perhaps the most extreme instance, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts sold Primedia for $525 million, closing out a 22-year investment in the media company.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS: TOP FINANCIAL ADVISERS: First half of 2011
worldwide
TOP LEGAL ADVISERS: First half of 2011
worldwide (Source: Thomson Reuters)
 A Drop-Off in Activity: Mergers and acquisitions declined in the second quarter. (Source: Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); LAWYERS (66%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



158 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Linger in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By JEFF MERKLEY, RAND PAUL and TOM UDALL. 
Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, and Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico, are United States senators.

 BODY:
LAST month President Obama announced plans for withdrawing by next summer the approximately 30,000 American troops sent to Afghanistan as part of the 2009 surge.
We commend the president for sticking to the July date he had outlined for beginning the withdrawal. However, his plan would not remove all regular combat troops until 2014. We believe the United States is capable of achieving this goal by the end of 2012. America would be more secure and stronger economically if we recognized that we have largely achieved our objectives in Afghanistan and moved aggressively to bring our troops and tax dollars home.
After Al Qaeda attacked the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, we rightly sought to bring to justice those who attacked us, to eliminate Al Qaeda's safe havens and training camps in Afghanistan, and to remove the terrorist-allied Taliban government. With hard work and sacrifice, our troops, intelligence personnel and diplomatic corps have skillfully achieved these objectives, culminating in the death of Osama bin Laden. 
But over the past 10 years, our mission expanded to include a fourth goal: nation-building. That is what we are bogged down in now: a prolonged effort to create a strong central government, a national police force and an army, and civic institutions in a nation that never had any to begin with. Let's not forget that Afghanistan has been a tribal society for millenniums.
Nineteen months ago the president announced the surge strategy in hopes of stabilizing Afghanistan and strengthening its military and police forces. Today, despite vast investment in training and equipping Afghan forces, the country's deep-seated instability, rampant corruption and, in some cases, compromised loyalties endure. Extending our commitment of combat troops will not remedy that situation.
Sometimes our national security warrants extreme sacrifices, and our troops are prepared to make them when asked. In this case, however, there is little reason to believe that the continuing commitment of tens of thousands of troops on a sprawling nation-building mission in Afghanistan will make America safer.
National security experts, including the former C.I.A. director Leon E. Panetta, have noted that Al Qaeda's presence in Afghanistan has been greatly diminished. Today there are probably fewer than 100 low-level Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan. Al Qaeda has a much larger presence in a number of other nations.
Our focus shouldn't be establishing new institutions in Afghanistan, but concentrating on terrorist organizations with global reach. And our military and intelligence organizations have proved repeatedly that they can take the fight to the terrorists without a huge military footprint.
We have urgent needs at home: high unemployment and a flood of foreclosures, a record deficit and a debt that is over $14 trillion and growing. We are spending $10 billion a month in Afghanistan. We need to change course.
A week before the president's speech, 24 of our Senate colleagues joined us by signing onto a bipartisan letter urging the president to announce a sustained and sizable drawdown from Afghanistan with the goal of removing regular combat troops. This group includes progressives, moderates and conservatives united behind one conclusion: we've accomplished what we set out to accomplish in Afghanistan, and we can no longer afford the lives and money it is taking to pursue an ambitious open-ended nation-building mission.
It is not too late to change course in what has become the longest American war in history. In light of our considerable national needs, both security and domestic, we urge the president to bring our troops home at last.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); FORECLOSURE (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (69%); LEON E PANETTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



159 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Hopes for a Big Payoff in Its Shale Oil Field Discovery

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Just east of Argentina's Andean foothills, an oil field called the Vaca Muerta -- ''dead cow'' in English -- has finally come to life.
In May, the Argentine oil company YPF announced that it had found 150 million barrels of oil in the Patagonian field, and President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner rushed onto national television to praise the discovery as something that could give new impetus to the country's long-stagnant economy.
''The importance of this discovery goes well beyond the volume,'' said Sebastian Eskenazi, YPF's chief executive, as he announced the find. ''The important thing is it is something new: new energy, a new future, new expectations.''
Although there are significant hurdles, geologists say that the Vaca Muerta is a harbinger of a possible major expansion of global petroleum supplies over the next two decades as the industry uses advanced techniques to extract oil from shale and other tightly packed rocks. 
Exploration of similar shale fields has already begun in Australia, Canada, Poland and France. Indian and Chinese oil companies are investing in pilot projects that, if successful, could make their countries significant oil producers, possibly reshaping energy geopolitics and stemming future price rises. Ukraine and Russia are also thought to have sizable shale fields of oil and gas, as do many North African and Middle Eastern countries.
''The potential is huge, on the order of hundreds of billions of barrels of recoverable reserves,'' said Michael C. Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consulting firm, who is preparing a report on global shale oil.
Similar fields in North Dakota and Texas are already beginning to gush oil. The techniques used to extract it include hydraulic fracturing, in which high-pressure fluids are used to break up shale rock to release the oil, and horizontal drilling, which allows drillers to tap thin layers of oil-filled shale that are sandwiched between layers of other rock.
Oil experts caution that geologists have only just begun to study shale fields in much of the world, and thus can only guess at their potential. Little seismic work has been completed, and core samples need to be retrieved from thousands of feet below the surface to judge how much oil or gas can be retrieved.
Skeptics also say that even if oil is found in many of these fields, some may not be recoverable using current technology.
Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, has drawn significant opposition in the United States and France because of concerns that the fluids used can pollute groundwater. Also, the process requires vast amounts of water, a problem since many of the fields are in dry regions.
Another barrier to widespread exploitation of oil shale is that few companies have the expertise and experience to do the work. Chinese and Indian oil companies are investing in joint shale ventures in the United States and other countries in part so they can learn the new exploration and drilling techniques.
The search for oil in tight rocks began in the United States about three years ago, and the potential for oil has been found from Texas to Michigan, California to Ohio. Domestic oil production from shale has grown to more than half a million barrels a day since 2009 and could reach three million barrels a day by 2020.
Oil companies are speculating that the early successes in the United States can be duplicated around the world. Exploration for gas from shale began a couple of years ago in China and around Europe, particularly Poland, and experts say some of those fields have oil potential as well.
''It could potentially be a game changer,'' said Fadel Gheit, a managing director and senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''We are going to see much wider distribution of oil reserves, to the benefit of the whole world. It could rerank countries, in which the very needy might become self-sufficient. Countries like Canada and Australia could potentially become the new Saudi Arabia for energy.''
Argentina certainly has high hopes for shale oil from the southern Patagonian province of Neuquen. The 150 million barrels of recoverable shale oil found in the Vaca Muerta represents an increase of 8 percent in Argentina's reserves, and the find was the biggest discovery of oil in the country since the late 1980s.
Oil experts say the Vaca Muerta is probably just a start for Argentina, long a middle-ranked oil producer. Mr. Lynch noted that YPF had explored only 100 square miles out of 5,000 square miles in the whole shale deposit, and other oil companies working in the area had not announced any discoveries yet.
Argentina has long struggled to meet its own oil and gas needs, and energy price controls and other economic policies have dissuaded oil companies from making major investments there. That is now changing, with the French oil company Total and the American companies Apache, Exxon Mobil and EOG Resources making major investments in Argentine shale fields.
''Argentina certainly has the chance of becoming a significant oil exporter,'' said Mark G. Papa, chief executive of EOG, which pioneered oil shale drilling in the United States and recently acquired access to 100,000 acres of Argentine shale.
So far, nearly all of the oil exploration in the shale fields in Argentina and elsewhere has been pursued with traditional vertical wells. Plans are just beginning for horizontal drilling.
Some experts caution that the fast advance of oil production from shale in the United States is no guarantee of similar successes abroad, at least not in the near future.
Aubrey K. McClendon, chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, a major domestic shale oil and gas producer, said that production would be constrained by the small number of companies with shale expertise and limits on access imposed by some countries.
''I am pretty confident that during the next 10 years the best oil volume growth story in the world will be the U.S.,'' he said in an e-mail message. But he added, ''I believe there's shale oil and tight sand oil to be found all over the world.''
One of the big potential winners is China, which has at least two shale pilot projects exploring for oil and gas. BP and Royal Dutch Shell are already working with the Chinese, and several other international companies are seeking shale opportunities in the country. The Chinese are working alone on some projects.
''China will probably be able to grow fast because of the single ownership of the resources,'' said Bob Fryklund, vice president for global exploration and production analysis at IHS Cera, an energy consultant firm.
Mr. Fryklund said it was still early to know how big global oil production from shale would become. But he noted that oil companies had already taken the potential seriously enough to invest billions of dollars in initial exploration projects.
''Tight oil is the new revolution in oil production, and it's not just the U.S.,'' Mr. Fryklund said. ''It's worldwide.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Extracting oil from shale formations in South Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: An oil field called Vaca Muerta came to life. (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); WATER POLLUTION (50%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UKRAINE (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



160 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: European Union to Send Food Aid to North Korea

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and MARK McDONALD. 
Stephen Castle reported from Brussels and Mark McDonald from Seoul, South Korea.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Responding to the growing threat of a humanitarian crisis in North Korea, the European Union announced on Monday that it will provide about $14.5 million in emergency aid to feed more than some 650,000 North Koreans.
The bloc's executive body, the European Commission, said that after its experts witnessed evidence of a developing crisis last month during a mission to North Korea, it negotiated an agreement with the North Koreans about how to monitor the delivery of assistance. 
''Increasingly desperate and extreme measures are being taken by the hard-hit North Koreans, including the widespread consumption of grass,'' the European Commission said in a statement.
The severity of the situation prompted a switch of tactics by the commission. In 2008, it stopped sending humanitarian aid to North Korea in favor of offering financing for longer-term development projects.
''The purpose of this aid package is to save the lives of at least 650,000 people who could otherwise die from lack of food,'' Kristalina Georgieva, a European commissioner, said in the statement. ''Our experts saw severely malnourished children in hospitals and nurseries where no treatment was available.
''North Korea's chronic nutrition problem is turning into an acute crisis in some parts of the country.''
Former President Jimmy Carter and two other former presidents, Mary Robinson of Ireland and Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, and former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland of Norway traveled to North Korea in April and issued grave warnings about the food situation there. (All four are members of the Elders, an independent group of world leaders established by Nelson Mandela.)
Mr. Carter was particularly concerned about the refusal of the United States and South Korea to send humanitarian assistance to the North, saying their deliberate withholding of food aid amounted to ''a human rights violation.''
Mr. Carter, 86, who was not traveling as an official American envoy, had been invited to North Korea for meetings with senior political and military officials.
Mrs. Robinson echoed Mr. Carter's concerns about what she called the ''very serious crisis'' over food supplies in North Korea because of a harsh winter, severe flooding and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. She said the withdrawal of American and South Korean food shipments had aggravated a dire situation, which had become, she said, ''a matter of life-and-death urgency.''
The United States recently sent a team of experts to evaluate food and hunger conditions in North Korea. But the Obama administration has not yet decided about a resumption of food shipments.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said recently that ''North Korea must address our serious concerns about monitoring.'' Integral to any agreement to restart American aid deliveries, she said, would be ''our ability to ensure and monitor that whatever food aid is provided actually reaches the people who are in need.''
After his trip in April, Mr. Carter said North Korean officials had guaranteed to make changes to the aid-distribution system so that Western governments and donors could track their deliveries and be certain that their aid was not being diverted to the military or the ruling elite.
The European aid will be distributed through the World Food Program, which has been used by the United States and other countries and donors. Ms. Georgieva said it would be strictly monitored, from the point of delivery at ports to when it reached recipients.
''If at any stage we discover that the aid is being diverted from its intended recipients, then the commission will not hesitate to end its humanitarian intervention,'' she said.
According to the European Commission, its experts found that in North Korea the state-distributed food rations had been more than halved in recent months. Two-thirds of the population depends on the rations, it said.
The per-person ration, which had been 400 grams of cereals per day, about 14 ounces, was reduced to 150 grams, about 5.3 ounces, in June. That is a fifth of the daily average nutritional requirement, according to European experts. Most of the rations consist of corn.
''Food assistance will reach children under 5 who have already been hospitalized with severe acute malnutrition,'' the commission said in the statement. ''Children in residential care will also be fed, as well as pregnant and breast-feeding women, hospital patients and the elderly.''
The food shortages have been caused by years of economic mismanagement and underinvestment, and have been made worse by poor weather and a reduction of food imports from China and South Korea. The next main grain harvest is in October.
Initially, the North Koreans had planned to import 353,000 tons of grains, but that target was reduced to 220,000 tons, of which about half has been secured so far, European experts said.
The North Korean government has promised unrestricted access for random checks related to the aid, the commission said. While distributing the European aid, the World Food Program will pay 400 visits per month to warehouses, institutions caring for children, hospitals and distribution sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (65%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (60%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORWAY (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



161 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Hopefuls Join in Independence Day Revelry: Huntsman Stays On Message

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
BELMONT, N.H. -- Wherever he went on the Fourth, former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah pledged to run a civil campaign.
''I care about civility,'' he told a group of neighbors who gathered at Linda Frawley's house here. ''The country wants to come together.'' 
Of course, it is easy to pledge civility in the serene setting of New Hampshire in the summertime, before the winter chill hits the air and the campaign trail alike. And even on such a sun-drenched day, Mr. Huntsman met with temptation to break his pledge.
In Amherst, reporters sought to draw him into the controversy regarding comments from his opponent, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, about President Obama's role in the recession -- and Mr. Romney's contradictory comments about whether he believed Mr. Obama had made it worse (the recession was declared over in June 2009, though Democrats and Republicans agree that the recovery has been disappointingly slow).
When asked about it, Mr. Huntsman demurred, sort of. ''I try to distance myself from the unfurling drama of different campaigns,'' he said. ''It's the only way I stay sane.''
At her home, on the rolling green hills overlooking Lake Winnisquam, Ms. Frawley presented Mr. Huntsman with an ice scraper, which she reminded him he would need in the cold weeks leading up to the state's primary next year.
He surveyed the sharp edge and said, ''This may come in handy.'' But, perhaps remembering his pledge, he added: ''It won't be us, though; it won't be us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JON M. HUNTSMAN JR.: The former ambassador to China and governor of Utah, center, also used the occasion of the Amherst parade to greet potential supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



162 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Administration Offers Health Care Cuts as Part Of Budget Negotiations

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Obama administration officials are offering to cut tens of billions of dollars from Medicare and Medicaid in negotiations to reduce the federal budget deficit, but the depth of the cuts depends on whether Republicans are willing to accept any increases in tax revenues.
Administration officials and Republican negotiators say the money can be taken from health care providers like hospitals and nursing homes without directly imposing new costs on needy beneficiaries or radically restructuring either program. 
Before the talks led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. broke off 12 days ago, negotiators said, they had reached substantial agreement on many cuts in the growth of Medicare, which provides care to people 65 and older, and Medicaid, which covers lower-income people. Those proposals are still on the table when Congress reconvenes this week, aides said, and are serious options that Democrats could accept in exchange for Republican concessions that raise revenues.
''Congress smells blood,'' said William L. Minnix Jr., the chief lobbyist for nonprofit nursing homes.
Mr. Minnix, the president of a trade group known as LeadingAge, is urging nursing homes to ''bombard your senators with the message that Medicaid cannot be cut by $100 billion'' over 10 years, as President Obama and many Republican lawmakers have suggested.
A coalition of hospital lobbyists, worried about the direction of the budget talks, has begun a national advertising campaign to block further cuts in the two health care programs, which account for about 55 percent of hospital revenues. The hospitals have made a commitment to spend up to $1 million a week through August on television, print and online advertising.
''This is white-knuckle time for a lot of people,'' said Bryant Hall, a health care lobbyist whose clients include drug and biotechnology companies. ''Stakeholders and beneficiaries are anxiously watching the budget negotiations.''
They may have reason to be anxious.
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Senate Democrat, said: ''We are very willing to entertain savings in Medicare. Medicare gives very good health care very inefficiently.''
In return, Mr. Schumer said, Republicans should be willing to consider some additional revenue.
Negotiators said they were seriously considering cuts in Medicare payments to hospitals for uncollectible patient debt and the training of doctors; steps to eliminate Medicare ''overpayments'' to nursing homes; a reduction in the federal share of some Medicaid spending; and new restrictions on states' ability to finance Medicaid by imposing taxes on hospitals and other health care providers.
Medicare and Medicaid insure more than 100 million people, account for 23 percent of all federal spending and are likely to be an important part of any budget deal. Military spending, which accounts for about 20 percent of federal expenditures, is likely to be included as well.
Most Republicans have ruled out tax rate increases to reduce the deficit. Mr. Obama has rejected the idea of Medicare vouchers, Medicaid block grants or any rollback of the new health care law. But he and the Republicans say they still hope to find some common ground.
Mr. Obama has embraced the goal of reducing deficits by a total of $4 trillion over 12 years -- an ambitious goal that suggests the size of any grand bargain.
In a speech in April, Mr. Obama offered to slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid without cutting benefits. He said his ideas would save $340 billion over 10 years and a total of nearly $500 billion in the two programs by 2023. His numbers quickly became a starting point in the negotiations.
As for Medicaid, administration officials have indicated that they could accept savings of $100 billion or more over 10 years, much to the dismay of many House Democrats. The lawmakers say the cuts would impair access to care for the poor and shift costs to the states, which are facing a huge expansion in Medicaid eligibility and enrollment, scheduled to start in 2014 under the new health care law.
While insisting on new revenue at his news conference last week, Mr. Obama also said, ''We'll have to tackle entitlements,'' adding that ''health care cuts'' need to be part of any deal.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, described a fiscal and political imperative: ''We can't balance the budget without dealing with mandatory spending programs like Medicare. We can't save Medicare as we know it. We can save Medicare only if we change it.''
The new health care law trimmed Medicare payments to most providers. Many states, in fiscal distress, are cutting Medicaid, which is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. If Congress and the president now make additional cuts, hospitals say, they will close some services and increase charges to patients with private insurance.
Hospital executives from around the country plan to visit Capitol Hill next week to deliver this message: ''Cutting Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals will hurt the ones we love, especially the most vulnerable -- children, seniors, the poor and disabled.''
Mr. Minnix, the lobbyist for nonprofit nursing homes, said: ''The issue is not money. The issue is the effects on people, vulnerable people.''
The American Medical Association and AARP, the lobby for older Americans, have joined hospitals and nursing homes in fighting other proposals that would limit federal spending as a percentage of the gross domestic product. Members of Congress of both parties have introduced bills that would automatically cut spending across the board if such limits were about to be breached.
While details have yet to be decided, lawmakers and administration officials said they were seriously considering these proposals:
Gradually eliminate Medicare payments to hospitals for bad debts that result when beneficiaries fail to pay deductibles and co-payments. Medicare reimburses hospitals for 70 percent of such debts after the hospitals make reasonable efforts to collect the unpaid amounts.
Reduce Medicare payments to teaching hospitals for the costs of training doctors, caring for sicker patients and providing specialized services like trauma care and organ transplants. Medicare spends $9.5 billion a year for its share of those costs.
Reduce the federal share of payments to health care providers treating low-income people under Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program. The administration wants to establish a single ''blended rate'' for each state. The federal government now reimburses states at different rates for different groups of people and different services in the two programs.
Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee and an architect of Medicaid, said he was ''very concerned'' that this proposal would reduce the federal contribution to Medicaid and shift costs to states.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Federal Spending on Medicare and Medicaid: As budget negotiations continue, lawmakers and White House officials are considering ways to slow the growth of federal spending on Medicare and Medicaid, which is projected to continue rising at a rapid pace. (Source: Congressional Budget Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); HEALTH CARE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); MEDICAID (58%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2011



163 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Inconceivabilities

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: It shouldn't have happened, so it didn't.

 BODY:
Dean Baker is upset at a story that describes Argentina's economy as "stagnant". Actually,this sort of thing is quite common -- and not just about Argentina. I've often found that when things happen that aren't supposed to happen according to the prevailing economic or political orthodoxy, reporting quite often describes what "should" have happened, not what actually happened.
I recall getting quite angry a couple of years after the California electricity crisis of 2000-2001, when news reports would come out describing the crisis as the result of environmental regulation -- which it wasn't -- and saying nothing about market manipulation. And this wasn't a debatable issue --we actually had the tapes of Enron traders telling power plants to shut down to drive up prices. But that wasn't the right story, and so reporting gave us something quite different.
In the Argentine case, the fact that default and devaluation was followed by a boom isn't an approved result. (And yes, there was a boom; you can criticize Argentine policies and data for recent years, but the "phoenix-like" recovery from 2002 on is not in question). And so you have reporting that tells about what should have happened, not what did.
As George Orwell wrote,
To see what is in front of one's nose needs a constant struggle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



164 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Times Topics)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Commas? Sure, Throw a Few In

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: AfterDeadlineCommas are small things, easily overlooked in writing, editing and proofing. But nothing makes an otherwise well-wrought sentence look amateurish as quickly as a comma that appears where it has no business, or the lack of one where it's needed.

 BODY:
Notes from the newsroom on grammar, usage and style. (Some frequently asked questions are here.)
Commas are small things, easily overlooked in writing, editing and proofing. But nothing makes an otherwise well-wrought sentence look amateurish as quickly as a comma that appears where it has no business, or the lack of one where it's needed.
The following lapses eluded the editing process right through to the final edition. Look again.
I live in a nice clapboard house and work in a gleaming steel-and-glass skyscraper, but after reading "Avian Architecture: How Birds Design, Engineer and Build'' I feel cheated.
Generally use a comma to separate introductory phrases from the main clause (in this case, we needed one after the title). With some very short phrases, the comma can be omitted: On Tuesdays I go shopping. But Garner, for example, recommends it with any phrase of three or more words.
In addition to Specialist Snyder, three other M.P.'s, from the Third Platoon died from the same bomb, along with an American civilian contractor.
No theory for how this comma got there. It looks like just sloppiness.
Mr. Olbermann, who quit MSNBC abruptly in January, is hoping that his new platform - politically progressive and free of corporate overlords, will attract left-of-liberal viewers seeking a more rabble-rousing champion.
This is a surprisingly common slip - we open a parenthetical insertion with a dash, but end it with a comma. Yet another reason to be wary around dashes.
JPMorgan ran the deal, but other banks, including Citibank and Bank of America took part. 
He also reports that Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan expressed some doubts about the fundamentals of the deal based on his firm's analysis, but ultimately the bank decided to keep Mr. Zell's business.
Two sins of omission. Explanatory insertions, like the propositional phrase in the first sentence and the appositive in the second, should be set off with commas before and after.
Watching the movie, you might well wonder what nation it is satirizing, the United States or Canada? Presumably, for commercial reasons, Mr. Goldbach's screenplay doesn't say, although the woodsy setting (it was filmed in British Columbia) is northern.
There should be no comma after "presumably," because it refers to "for commercial reasons." As it stands, the sentence means "the screenplay presumably doesn't say," which is not what we intended. Another punctuation problem: The first sentence is an indirect question, and so should end with a period, not a question mark.
As in the original Frank's inability to abide the canting hypocrisy of his fellow men lands him in the legal soup when he insults the puerile love poems of Oronte (Rick Holmes), one of the widow Celimene's many suitors.
As in the first example, we should have a comma after the introductory phrase.
In a Word
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
The couple vacations on Rupert Murdoch's 184-foot sailboat and have appeared as themselves on the CW series "Gossip Girl."
"Couple" can sometimes be construed as singular, but not as both singular and plural in the same sentence. Here, make the verb "vacation."
The longtime owner of Joe's Superette, Leo Caladonato, died in May, and the deli, along with its deep fried prosciutto balls, are now gone.
Make it "is now gone." The aside beginning "along with" is not part of the subject, as it would be if the clause read, "and the deli and its deep fried prosciutto balls are gone."
Growth remains weak, but in the fourth quarter of 2008, the economy shrunk at a 6.8 percent rate. Payrolls grew by only 54,000 in May, but shrunk by 619,000 in December 2008.
Our dictionary's first choice is "shrank," so that's what we should use.
The imprint and connection to Utah extends, for both men, partly through their fathers.
The compound subject is plural; make it "extend."
You also have a great schedule - you work only five days a month. That's about $865,000 dollars a day.
A surprisingly common lapse. The word "dollars" is redundant, of course.
With Clemons' death, we are one vibrant man short of a cultural example of how the divides of race can come together over music. Bruce Springsteen lost a friend of 40 years; the rest of us lost an ideal.
Make it "Clemons's."
Ms. Broner's own women's seder, held in New York since 1976 (often in her Manhattan apartment), was regularly attended by luminaries including Ms. Paley, Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and Letty Cottin Pogrebin.
Uppercase, The Times's stylebook says.
Wouldn't it be nice to have a mortgage where the interest rate begins with the number "3?"The question mark should go outside the quotation marks; it pertains to the whole sentence, not to what's in quotes.
 Helen Glikman, 54, a professor of social work from Cambridge, Mass., who regularly attends readings at local bookstores, said she would happily pay a nominal fee, say $10, to hear Paul Auster, who she has seen twice, or Jonathan Lethem.Make it "whom," the direct object of "has seen."
The number of gifted preschoolers in New York City is on the rise, but they mostly live in the city's middle-class and wealthier districts. That's the picture of next year's kindergarteners who qualified for gifted programs, according to the city's Department of Education, which released admissions statistics on Tuesday.
"Kindergartners," the stylebook says.
After Deadline examines questions of grammar, usage and style encountered by writers and editors of The Times. It is adapted from a weekly newsroom critique overseen by Philip B. Corbett, the associate managing editor for standards, who is also in charge of The Times's style manual.

        
Subject, Meet Verb 
        
Parallel Problems 
        
Bright Passages 
        
When Spell Check Can't Help 
        
More Words We Love Too Much 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); LIBERALISM (70%) After Deadline; Grammar

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



165 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Roundup: Michigan Admissions, Student Loans and Prospects for Film Graduates

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The Choice highlights some recent articles that may be of interest to the next class of college applicants.

 BODY:
Summer is typically a slow season on the admissions news (and news-you-can-use) front. But several articles over the holiday weekend caught our eye, and we wanted to bring them to the attention of those readers -- especially future applicants and their families -- who may have missed them.
On Friday, a federal appeals court "struck down Michigan's 2006 ban on the consideration of race and gender in public-university admissions,'' which my colleague Tamar Lewin described in an article as "the latest round of the decade-long fight over the University of Michigan's affirmative action policies." The Michigan attorney general promised to appeal the decision. Meanwhile, Ms. Lewin quoted Kelly Cunningham, a spokeswoman for the University of Michigan, as saying that it was too early to know what impact the ruling would have on admissions officers and applicants alike.
You can read a related article, from The Chronicle of Higher Education, here.
Meanwhile, on Saturday, Ron Lieber, The Times's Your Money columnist, took the measure of the news that "in recent weeks that U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo are now offering fixed-rate student loans in addition to the variable rate kind that had been standard." Mr. Lieber synthesized the two main responses, thus far, as follows:
The first is to cheer. Borrowers now have a choice similar to people buying homes. Those who want certainty can pay extra for it, while those who wish to roll the dice and hope interest rates don't rise too much can do that, too.
The second response is to rail against the fact that these loans are even necessary. After all, the federal government will lend most undergraduates up to $31,000. That this is not nearly enough for many families to cover the bills at all sorts of colleges is some kind of national disgrace, right?
Both reactions, it turns out, are valid. So let's consider them one at a time.
You can read the full column here.
Finally, my colleague Michael Cieply writes in an article in today's Times about the seeming disconnect between applications to film programs, and the more traditional job prospects for graduates. As he puts it:
As home-entertainment revenue declined in the last five years, studios reduced spending on scripts from new writers, cut junior staff positions and severely curtailed deals with producers who once provided entry-level positions for film school graduates. Yet applications to university film, television and digital media programs surged in the last few years as students sought refuge from the weak economy in graduate schools and some colleges opened new programs.
In an effort to capture the fierce competition for such programs, Mr. Cieply adds:
At U.S.C. about 4,800 would-be students applied for fewer than 300 slots next fall, up from about 2,800 applicants the year before. Educators at established film and television programs like those at New York University, the University of Texas, Loyola Marymount University and the University of California, Los Angeles, said they had seen a similarly sharp step-up in the number of students seeking what used to be called film education but now typically embraces the production of video games and Webisodes and virtually any medium in which the pictures move. 

        
Applications Rise (Yet Again) at Dozens of Selective Colleges
        
An Initiative to Ease Student Loan Debt
        
'Eerie Echo' of Mortgage Crisis in Student Loan Debt
        
Juniors: In the Quiet of Summer, Start Your Essays
        
Job Prospects Uncertain for New College Graduates 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); FILM SCHOOLS (75%); WRITERS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (60%); FILM (60%) affirmative action; college admissions; Ron Lieber; student loans; University of Michigan

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (68%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



166 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Worse Than We Think?

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Are you adaptable to change?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
Happy Independence Day!
 At Monday's cookout, did you take a moment to think about what could have happened if we had lost the war?
The Deficit: Is It Worse Than We Think?
Many are expecting a two-part deficit reduction program. The BBC's Justin Webb asks if Americans are in denial over the debt crisis. A reduction in our debt rating could cost $100 billion. A former governor of the Federal Reserve says the deficit is worse than we think: "Only serious long-term spending reduction in the entitlement area can begin to address the nation's deficit and debt problems. It should no longer be credible for our elected officials to hide the need for entitlement reforms behind rosy economic and budgetary assumptions." Paul Krugman thinks the Republicans are blackmailing President Obama. The Treasury secretary considers leaving. James Pethokoukis says the G.O.P. should not go wobbly on taxes: "Axing all the Bush tax cuts would chop three percentage points off gross domestic product growth, according to Goldman Sachs, certainly sending America back into recession. Tax revenue would again plummet." Jared Bernstein liked the president's press conference.
The Data: Home Prices Could Be StabilizingManufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region firmed somewhat in June after stalling in May. Home prices increased in April, and a blogger demonstrates that prices are stabilizing. Consumer spending halted and personal income increased which prompts James Picerno to ask if consumers are starting to save more. (I'm thinking of giving up bacon.) Scott Grannis gives himself mixed reviews on his forecasts at mid-year and reports lower truck tonnage. Investors are warned to prepare for the next oil shock. A new TD Bank survey says that 51 percent of small-business owners are optimistic about the economy and 73 percent expect to meet or exceed revenue projections in the upcoming quarter. Twenty-three percent of everything made since the year 1 A.D. has been made in the past 10 years. Small-business borrowing surges. (Or maybe not.)
Starting Up: Homework Will Never Be Fun
Ben Yoskovitz says that start-ups need to make leaps of faith but not blindly. Here are a few ideas to keep your side business moving while you also keep your day job. A battery start-up flows toward introduction. HP steps up its outreach to start-ups. An Austin firm works on a powerful, portable disinfectant for hospitals. A young company hopes to make homework as much fun as video games. Experts at a New York multicultural small-business conference show would-be entrepreneurs a thing or two. There's a little house of secrets on the Great Plains. A Twitter alum raises $100 million.
Marketing: F.Y.I. on Q.R. Codes
Anuradha Shukla demonstrates how a few small businesses are using Q.R. codes to improve their social media marketing. Makeuseof.com's Tim Brookes follows up with seven great uses for Q.R. Codes and how to generate your own for free. American Express lets small businesses trade points for Facebook ads. An award winning marketer explains how to improve your online marketing. Constant Contact launches a free social media marketing guide for small businesses. A survey reveals area codes have the edge over zip codes in boosting small-business image.
Red Tape: Patent Reform 
There are rumors that a corporate tax overhaul is in the works. A cash-constrained Internal Revenue Service would become more automated and show less sensitivity to individuals. The Public Forum's president, Jonathan Ortmans, asks who won after patent reform passes. Cyndia Zwahlen explains how small claims court can be a big help for merchants. New legislation would prohibit American companies from exporting hazardous electronic waste to developing nations. Will California's "Amazon tax" kill 25,000 small businesses?
Ideas and Opportunities: Gooooaaal!
Say it ain't so: professional soccer is starting to outdraw professional baseball. Here are five hot industries every small business should know about.
Success Strategies: Work Out, Make Money
The Kaufman Foundation starts an online education program for aspiring entrepreneurs. Founders reveal books that changed their lives. Figures from the Small Business Administration show that small businesses won deals worth a record $97.9 billion, or 22.7 per cent of the government's contract spend last year. Small medical practices are adapting to survive. A start-up mentor, Martin Zwilling, feels that a healthy start-up requires a healthy entrepreneur -- and Derek Flanzraich provides an entrepreneur's guide to working out.
Your People: Avoiding Mistakes
Here are 13 insanely cool resumes that led to interviews at Google and other top jobs. Jeff Haden suggests a way to avoid a hiring mistake: "Decide how many individuals who possess your most important attribute will be enough. If you get more, great - if not you'll still be O.K." American Airlines announces more benefits for small and medium-sized businesses expanding globally. A workspace idea: floating desk and lamps. Speaking of mistakes, MySpace is sold for $35 million. The Dodgers file for bankruptcy.
Around The Country: Thank You, Mr. Mayor
North Dakota is booming. Virginia is the top state for business. A couple of Reuters bloggers say that most state governments are well equipped to create policies conducive to growth. Philadelphia's mayor says no to a sick leave bill that could harm small businesses. Gay weddings mean big business and Mayor Bloomberg wants gay people to marry in the Big Apple. Red ants are invading southern states. A few savvy women entrepreneurs lead fast-growing businesses in Atlanta. Minnesota shuts down.
Around the World: Sacrebleu!
Small companies feel the pain in China. In Prague, there's a new shopping mall that caters just to men. Yahoo is bigger than Mongolia. Vietnam's high interest and inflation prove a challenge to small-business owners. A U.F.O. is spotted over London. Entrepreneurs are recovering more quickly in France than in the United States!
Finance: Credit Card Tips
A blogger gives strategies for accepting credit cards. Example: "While comparing companies, look to see what additional options are available. One example of this might be swipe capabilities for your cellphone. This allows easy processing by swiping the credit card rather than entering the card numbers by hand." Kiva.org, and Visa start a new program that will extend small business access to microloans in American cities. My advice is to borrow a few bucks from this guy. The chief operating officer of a cost-containment firm lists five ways we can reduce operating expenses.
Technology: Office 365
Microsoft rolls out Office 365, prompting three small-business questions from Ed Bott. Thomas Claburn lists four reasons Google Apps beats Office 365. Arik Hesseldahl poses seven questions for Google Apps executive Shan Sinha. For example: "When you get into these companies and governments, are you displacing Office and Exchange? Or are you enhancing them or coexisting with them?" Paul Mah shows what we can learn from Dropbox's security breach: "In my opinion, the fact that cloud storage has to be accessible from any location on the Internet places it at greater risk." Andreas Bernstrom discusses how 4G will affect the way we communicate. Here's what our e-mail address says about our computer skills. Network World says desktop PCs are dead. Google introduces its Facebook competitor. Skype now has video calling for the Droid.
The Week Ahead 
Factory orders on Tuesday. But this is a week of (un)employment news: ADP's non-farm employment change numbers and weekly unemployment claims arrive on Thursday, and the official unemployment rate is announced Friday (along with consumer credit numbers). On Wednesday take your Webmaster to lunch (a burger and a Red Bull is probably sufficient).
This Week's Bests
Advice for Valuing Your Start-Up Bill Clark offers nine steps to consider when valuing your start-up. "You need to consider the time it would take for someone to copy your idea. Simple ideas often have low barriers to entry; they'll have to fight off "me-too" companies very quickly. For example, Groupon and other 'deal of the day' sites. Start-ups with high barriers to entry present complex ideas that may require a lot of time, money and effort, and therefore face less competition. However, high barrier to entry (longer first-to-market exclusivity) may be more attractive, and therefore more valuable, to potential investors."
Suggestion on How to Be More Productive (and Still Get Eight Hours of Sleep) Prime Sarmiento explains: "Follow your rhythm. Do the most important task at a time which fits your body clock. I'm not a morning lark and prefer to write most of my analytical reports in the afternoon. I can't force myself to write in the morning - it just won't happen as my mind is sharper after lunch. I instead spend my mornings on routine stuff: responding to e-mails, drinking coffee and running errands."
Thoughts on Embracing Change Tory Burch tells entrepreneurs to embrace change: "Entrepreneurs have a great ability to create change, be flexible, build companies and cultivate the kind of work environment in which they want to work."
This Week's Question Do you think you're adaptable to change?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: A Union for Owners
        
This Week in Small Business: How to Sell Out
        
This Week in Small Business: Repeal the Tanning Tax!
        
This Week in Small Business: Is the Sky Falling?
        
This Week in Small Business: Oprah, Banks and Credit Cards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); HOME PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); STATISTICS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); GOVERNORS (55%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%) economy; Small Business; Computers and the Internet; Entrepreneurship; Dashboard

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); JARED BERNSTEIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



167 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Photojournalists Take America's Portrait on Its Birthday

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Lens blog reports on a project, in conjunction with the Library of Congress, that recreates the 1930s efforts to document life in the United States.

 BODY:
The portfolio would be remarkable enough on its own: a group of talented photojournalists working together to capture America, on its birthday. But what really made this Fourth of July project stand out is that the archive will be preserved and published by the Library of Congress, in an agreement with the Facing Change collective that may open new avenues for photojournalists. 
As the Lens blog writes: "This agreement is a significant step for all photographers trying to figure out new ways to pursue issue-oriented work and survive the changes that have upended editorial photography. Nostalgia won't bring back the days of months-long assignments for a vital Life magazine or a Farm Security Administration that sends giants like Dorothea Lange and Walker Evans into the field."
Read more 

        
On The Economist's Cover, Only a Part of the Picture
        
Speed Read for Thursday, April 15
        
Pros and Amateurs Debate: Is Photography in Trouble?
        
A Financial Crunch for Photojournalists Is Transforming the Profession

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOJOURNALISM (95%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (91%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%) Library of Congress; photojournalism; Photography

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (93%) Library of Congress; Photography

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



168 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Bahamas Bans Shark Fishing

BYLINE: DAVID JOLLY


HIGHLIGHT: The country joins Honduras, the Maldives and the Micronesian nation of Palau in prioritizing dive tourism over the commercial potential of shark finning.

 BODY:
The Bahamas on Tuesday joined the growing global movement to protect sharks, betting that the endangered animals are worth more to visiting divers than they are to fishers.
The law, signed into effect by Lawrence S. Cartwright, the agriculture and fisheries minister, bans all commercial shark fishing in the country's 243,000-square-mile territorial waters and prohibits trade in shark products.
The Caribbean nation, a renowned diving destination, is famed for its shark encounters.
While the country banned long-line fishing gear 20 years ago in another boon to shark populations, said Eric Carey, executive director of the Bahamas National Trust, ''there were no specific laws in the Bahamas for sharks, the crown jewels of ocean health.''The new regulations will ''ensure that that sharks can continue to thrive for generations in our waters, one of the world's best places to see sharks,'' Mr. Carey said in a statement.
As I noted in a post here on June 24, the shark protection movement has been gathering momentum, particularly in countries that see a close link between sharks and dive-tourist dollars, even though the economics are not always that clear-cut. Honduras, the Maldives and the Micronesian nation of Palau are other diving destinations that have announced shark-friendly polices recently.
''These countries have responded to the research showing that sharks are more valuable alive than dead, so they're more aggressively protecting them,'' said Michael Skoletsky, executive director of Shark Savers, a nongovernmental organization based in New York. Jill Hepp, a shark conservationist with the Pew Environment Group, said that 2011 was ''fast becoming the year of the shark.''
Pew has been among the most active organizations encouraging governments to create shark sanctuaries. It worked with the Bahamas National Trust to drum up public support for shark protection after a company in the islands announced plans to begin exporting shark fins, which are prized for soup.
Some 73 million sharks are thought to be taken each year for their fins, and many are dumped back into the ocean while still alive. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature estimates that up to one-third of all the cartiliginous fishes in the world, a group to which sharks belong, are threatened with extinction.
Conservationists hope that the momentum will help them carry the day in California, where a bill banning the possession and sale of shark fins passed the state house but stalled June 28 in the Senate.
The state Senate Committee on Natural Resources and Water passed the shark fin bill, but on condition that it be amended to make it more palatable to Chinese-Americans and restaurateurs, who had complained that it was discriminatory in its construction, unfairly singling out Chinese cuisine. Opponents have lined up powerful lobbyists and may be able to water the bill down enough to defeat its purpose, Mr. Skoletsky said.
Finning, although not shark fishing, is already illegal in the United States, meaning that fishers are required to land the sharks intact. In American waters, sharks continue to be taken for their fins, but the meat is then used as food for other species. There is also a market in imported fins in the United States.
A Hawaiian law banning the possession and sale of shark fins took effect on Friday, and Washington and Oregon have passed similar laws.

        
Putting a Price on Sharks
        
Shrugging Off Criticism, Europe Will Keep Trawling
        
A Dirge for the Bluefin Tuna 
        
Shark Victims Rally Behind the Species 
        
A Shark Fin Promotion Backfires 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); ZOOLOGY (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); FINFISH FISHING (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); ANIMALS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); TOURISM (72%) bahamas; overfishing; shark fin soup; shark fins; shark fishing; Sharks; wildlife conservation; Endangered and Extinct Species; Fishing, Commercial; International Trade and World Market; National Trust; Bahama Islands; Breaking News; fisheries; Politics and Policy; wildlife

ORGANIZATION: National Trust

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) BAHAMAS (94%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (93%); MALDIVES (93%); HONDURAS (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Bahama Islands

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



169 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Celebrate Summer: Ideas for Teaching the Season

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: From fireworks to fireflies, the Times articles, essays, slide shows and videos in our list explore the pleasures of summer, and encourage a little learning on the side.

 BODY:
The Learning Network is taking it slow this month, and we hope you are too - though of course we can't help but encourage a bit of learning as you go.
From fireworks to fireflies, the Times articles, essays, slide shows and videos below explore the pleasures of summer. Enjoy!
1. What makes summer summer for you? Is it grilling burgers? Swimming? Wearing cheap and chic fashions? Going to camp? Playing a pop-up piano? 
Tell us by commenting on this post, or use the articles in the 2010 Summer Rituals series as models for longer essays that explore quintessential summer traditions or pleasures. 
2. What's unique about summer in the place you live? 
Do tourists come from near and far to watch your fireflies blink in unison? Probably not - that seems to happen only in Elkmont, Tenn. - but it's likely you do have special local traditions, like the Fourth of July festivities in this New Jersey town, or a beach, lake or pool where everyone gathers the way generations of New Yorkers have gone to Coney Island. You probably even have a dangerous summer rite of passage in your area that every kid you know has participated in at least once.
Answer our Student Opinion question, What Are Your Favorite Summer Hangouts? Or make a video showing 36 seconds of summer in your area. 
3. What are you reading this summer - whether because you want to or because you have to? We asked teachers and students that question in June, and got a list of suggestions that could keep the entire nation busy all season. Add your own if you like!
And don't forget that during July The Learning Network is running a Summer Reading Contest. All you have to do is tell us what you found most interesting in The Times each week and why, and maybe you'll be one of our weekly winners.
4. Hot enough for ya? Last summer on a particularly steamy day in July we created a page called Teaching the Heat Wave: Games, Lessons and More. Use that, or this page, to investigate the science of summer.
5. So far this year, the New York Police Department reports that it has confiscated more than 5,000 pounds of illegal fireworks, ranging from sparklers to professional pyrotechnics. Would you like to see a video of the mass detonation of the entire stash? Of course you would.
6. Maybe summer for you means baseball, tennis, soccer or another sport. We've also recently posted a "Film Festival" of documentaries about less traditional seasonal sports such as barehanded fishing and extreme white-water kayaking. 
Or maybe you like games you can play in air-conditioned comfort.We love this description of the "paperback game," which, the writer says, is best played with mass-market paperbacks, "the cheesier the better."
For other indoor games, visit our Student Crossword archive or the New York Times Games page to try Suduko, Ken Ken or Set. If you think you're up to the challenge, you can also play rock-paper-scissors against a computer. 
7. Do you have a summer job? According to this, probably not. Some ambitious teenagers, however, seem to have taken the recession as a challenge, including Cameron Stephens of Atlanta who, in order to get a job, just worked until someone noticed. 
Another creative idea we've come across is Michael Warshafsky's 60 Days/60 Job Shadows. Mr. Warshafsky is an 18-year-old living in Canada who is following people like a rabbi and a venture capitalist to find out what each does all day, then blogging about it. 
Meanwhile, if you do have a job, write in and tell us about it here. And if you don't, The Choice blog offers you A Pre-College Summer To-Do List.
8. Where are you traveling this summer? Where would you go if money was no object? 
To plan or just to dream, use The Times's annual Best Places to Go list, browse recent articles in the Travel section like "The Hidden Route to Machu Picchu," or "Roller Coasters Bring a New Kind of Thrill to Vegas," or look at the wonderful reader-submission series "Why We Travel." There you can learn about places to get a fish pedicure, bungee jump or sand surf. 
What photo and story from your own travels, near or far, would you submit?
 9. What summer movies have you already seen, and which are you looking forward to? Which movies did you think were overhyped this season, and which do you think deserved a bigger audience? 
If you grew up reading and watching "Harry Potter," this timeline will help you reminisce and prepare for his final battle on July 15. 
10. What did we miss? Tell us here about something you love to do in summer and why. If we get some great submissions, we'll feature our favorites in the blog. (No last names, please, but we love to know where you're from and how old you are. Adults welcome too!)

        
What You're Reading This Summer: The Results of Our Survey
        
Summer 2011: Tracking Topics in the News
        
Celebrate Summer: Fun Ideas for Teaching With The Times
        
Student Reading Contest Winner | On Dominique Strauss-Kahn
        
What Interested You Most in The Times This Week?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FILM (90%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); WEATHER (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); BASEBALL (71%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (67%); FESTIVALS (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); SOCCER (61%); WRITERS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); EXTREME SPORTS (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); POLICE FORCES (50%) summer 2011; summer reading; summer school; summer vacation; Academic Skills; Creative Writing; Culture and Identity; Film; Fine Arts; Journalism; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Personal Writing; Science; Sports; Teaching with The New York Times; Weather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011



170 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Same-Sex Spouses in New York Will Get Health Insurance

BYLINE: TARA SIEGEL BERNARD


HIGHLIGHT: Getting health insurance will become easier for same-sex couples who marry and live in New York.

 BODY:
Getting health insurance should become easier for gay couples who decide to marry and live in New York, which recently became the sixth state to legalize same-sex marriage.
Couples that marry will gain a variety of other legal and financial benefits as well, but the ability to add a spouse to an employer's plan may be one of the more significant. When we calculated the extra costs that gay couples incur because of their inability to marry, health care expenses were certainly among the most onerous - not all employers offer domestic partner insurance, for instance. And even when they do, workers are often taxed on the value of those benefits.
Though the legalization of same-sex marriage in New York won't entirely level the playing field with opposite-sex married couples, it will certainly help matters. Not only will the same-sex spouses of state workers be eligible for spousal coverage, but the same goes for many employees who work for private employers. According to the state insurance department, an employer that provides coverage to spouses must now also extend that coverage to same-sex spouses who were legally married in New York.
In fact, since New York State already recognized same-sex marriages performed elsewhere, gay couples who were married have been eligible for spousal coverage for some time. The New York State Insurance Department issued guidance in 2008 clarifying its position, noting that same-sex spouses were indeed to be treated as spouses for health insurance purposes (and other insurance matters as well).
Still, there could be some instances were spouses may not be eligible for coverage. Employers who don't contract with an insurance company but instead pay for health benefits out of their own assets - so-called "self-insured plans" - are not subject to the state's insurance laws. Instead, the plans are governed by a federal law, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, known as Erisa, which is likely to rely on the federal definition of marriage (one man and one woman).
So an employer with a self-insured plan could choose to cover same-sex spouses, but it's not required, said Todd Solomon, a partner in the employee benefits practice at McDermott Will & Emery and author of "Domestic Partner Benefits: An Employer's Guide."
And since the federal government still doesn't recognize same-sex marriage, workers with same-sex spouses will continue to owe federal income taxes on the value of their spouse's benefits, unless they're considered a dependent. (Heterosexual married couples aren't subject to the taxes because they're viewed as an economic unit in the eyes of the federal government.) While more employers have begun reimbursing their workers for those extra costs, it's still a relatively small number that do.
But now that same-sex marriage is legal at the state level, employees will no longer owe state income taxes on the value of those benefits, according to a spokeswoman for the state department of taxation.
Do you know of any employers with a self-insured plan that do not cover same-sex spouses? And how much extra do you have to pay for health coverage since same-sex marriage is not recognized by the federal government?

        
How Gay Marriage Will Change Couples' Financial Lives
        
Cambridge, Mass., Equalizes Cost of Health Insurance for Gay Workers
        
What a Repeal of the Gay Marriage Ban Means
        
A Gay Couple's Tax Predicament
        
More Employers Equalize Health Benefits for Gay Workers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (96%); MARRIAGE (95%); HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); COHABITATION (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); TAX LAW (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); INCOME TAX (69%) Gay & Lesbian; Federal Taxes (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; New York State; What If You're Gay

COMPANY: MCDERMOTT WILL & EMERY LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



171 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: More Law Firms Raid Competitors to Poach Rainmakers

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Intense demand for lawyers with large, established books of business has led corporate law firms to recruit them more aggressively and offer record pay packages. 

 BODY:
The job of unwinding Bernard L. Madoff's huge fraud and recovering money for its victims has been lucrative, reaping hundreds of millions of dollars in legal fees. Late last year, a New Jersey law firm tried to poach the legal team handling that assignment.
It was an audacious move that would have transformed the New Jersey firm, Greenbaum Rowe Smith & Davis, giving it a powerful presence in New York and the enormous stream of legal fees being generated by the Madoff litigation.
Irving H. Picard, the court-appointed Madoff trustee, and his chief counsel, David Sheehan, carefully considered leaving their firm, Baker Hostetler, but decided to stay after additional resources were committed to their group.
Though the deal never materialized, the dalliance highlights the intense demand at corporate law firms for lawyers with large, established books of business. While lateral hiring is nothing new, some of the country's biggest law firms are recruiting top producers more aggressively than ever and offering record pay packages with multiyear guarantees, legal industry specialists say.
"We have entered the era of the superstar megarainmaker," said Peter Zeughauser of the Zeughauser Group, a law firm consultancy.
This year, DLA Piper, a giant law firm at the forefront of this trend, hired James D. Wareham, a litigator in Washington who represents big corporations including Capital One and Chevron. DLA Piper is paying him more than $5 million a year, a substantial increase from his salary at his former firm, Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker.
Last month, O'Melveny & Myers lost nine corporate partners that have Apollo Global Management, the large private equity firm, as a prized client. Seven of them left for Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison; two went to Weil Gotshal & Manges. 
Latham & Watkins recently picked off seven partners from three competitors, including Proskauer Rose and WilmerHale, to establish an office in Boston, an important location for profitable legal work in the technology and life sciences industries.
The competition for top legal talent has caused the spread between the highest-paid partners and other partners at law firms to widen in recent years. The average partner at a United States firm earns $640,000 a year, according to a recent compensation study by Major, Lindsey & Africa, a legal recruiting firm. Top producers at some of the biggest firms are paid as much as 10 times what an average partner at their firm earns, roughly double the gap of a decade ago, legal industry consultants say.
A number of factors are driving ever-higher compensation for top producers. A persistently weak economy continues to put pressure on the revenues of these firms, making them desperate to capture business that can generate big fees. Large corporations also continue to reduce the number of outside law firms they use, a trend that has forced firms to pay up for teams of lawyers in important practice areas where they lack a specialty.
Some corporate law firms, like Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and Cravath Swaine & Moore, eschew the star system and maintain a more traditional partnership culture with compensation in a more narrow range. Still, the free-agent market for rainmakers has altered the corporate law landscape.
"We're increasingly seeing big firms pay up for large teams of lawyers built around a rainmaker, or a big client, or a complex case," said Jeffrey A. Lowe, a managing partner at Major, Lindsey & Africa. "You could certainly see the appeal that the Madoff trustee and his team of lawyers would have to another firm."
The Madoff trustee litigation has been a boon for Baker Hostetler, a 740-lawyer Cleveland-based firm. Mr. Picard and his team have filed more than a thousand lawsuits seeking to recover money for victims who sustained losses in the fraud. Among the defendants are more than a dozen banks, including JPMorgan Chase, and wealthy investors like the Wilpon family, which owns the New York Mets. In some lawsuits, Mr. Picard is seeking to recover cash withdrawn from the Ponzi scheme before its collapse; in others, he has asked for damages from defendants who he says knew or should have known about the fraud. 
So far, Mr. Picard has recovered about $10 billion in settlements and asset sales, far more than what legal specialists had expected.
It has been a hugely profitable assignment, having brought in about $180 million in legal fees for Baker Hostetler. The firm is expected to receive roughly $603 million more for its work from 2011 to 2014, according to correspondence from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, a private nonprofit entity backed by broker-dealers, which pays Baker Hostetler's fees.
Mr. Picard, as trustee, has been paid $4.3 million through January, according to court records. He stands to make an additional $12.5 million over the next three years, the SIPC letter said.
The financial arrangement that Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan have with Baker Hostetler is unclear.
The Madoff case was a major driver in increasing revenue at Baker Hostetler by 17 percent last year, the third-largest increase among the country's 100 largest law firms, according to The American Lawyer magazine. Since receiving the assignment, Baker Hostetler's New York office, where Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan are based, has doubled to about 150 lawyers.
Though the Madoff litigation has brought many dollars and much prominence to Baker Hostetler, not every lawyer at the firm is thrilled. 
A number of Baker Hostetler lawyers have complained that too many resources are being devoted to the Madoff case at the expense of the rest of the firm's practice groups.
"We're now the Madoff firm, just go to our Web site and take a look," said a lawyer at Baker Hostetler who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. "All you'll see is Madoff, Madoff, Madoff."
(While the firm trumpets the Madoff work on its Web site, the site contains smaller reports on other assignments.)
Another concern is a conflict-of-interest issue: Baker Hostetler would not represent many large banks and wealthy families because they were defendants in Madoff lawsuits. This would also make it a challenge for the Madoff team to join another large national firm with clients, or prospective clients, that have been sued by the trustee.
Last year Mr. Sheehan began discussing the possibility of leaving Baker Hostetler with Paul Rowe, the chairman of Greenbaum Rowe. It would have been a good fit. Joining Greenbaum Rowe would allow the Madoff team to operate on its own from New York with the backing of a 100-lawyer firm based in Iselin, N.J., best known for its litigation practices.
Mr. Rowe declined to comment.
Talks advanced far enough along that Greenbaum Rowe had secured two floors of empty space at 666 Fifth Avenue. But after discussions with Baker Hostetler management, Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan stayed put.
People briefed on the decision say that the firm did not increase their compensation, but instead devoted more resources to the Madoff litigation.
"The trustee and his counsel are committed to Baker Hostetler and look forward to the continued success that the firm's legal team has achieved on the Madoff matter," a spokesman for the firm said.

        
Law Firms' Newest Worry: U.S. News
        
Madoff Trustee Sues Mets Owners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (92%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (91%); LAW FIRM BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TRENDS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%) Baker Hostetler; Bernard L. Madoff; DLA Piper; Greenbaum Rowe Smith & Davis; Irving H. Picard; Latham & Watkins; O'Melveny & Myers; Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison; Proskauer Rose; Weil Gotshal & Manges; WilmerHale; Madoff, Bernard L; Picard, Irving H; Appointments and Executive Changes; Hiring and Promotion; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (91%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (91%); O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (91%); DLA PIPER LLP (91%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (90%); BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (90%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

TICKER: APO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (92%) Madoff, Bernard L; Picard, Irving H

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



172 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE


HIGHLIGHT: New York Times reporter Damien Cave takes readers' questions about the changing nature of illegal migration along the U.S.-Mexico border. 

 BODY:
Updated Damien Cave's answers to readers' Questions can be found here.
Here is an introduction to the series from the author. 
In the American imagination, mass Mexican migration is a given. Terms like "invading hordes" have been used for decades now to describe a human flow -- mostly illegal since the 80s -- widely seen as inevitable if not perpetually growing.
But that image, of Mexico and immigration, may need to be updated.
"Americans have this skewed view of Mexico as this place that's demographically out of control and undeveloped with people who are always desperate to come to the United States," said Douglas S. Massey, a demographer at Princeton and co-director of the Mexican Migration Project. "That's just not true at all."
In the first of several articles looking at changing migration patterns from Latin America, I report on the significant decline in illegal traffic from Mexico over the past several years - and why no single American policy, nor the declining economy, can be credited solely with the decrease. Instead, my reporting shows, the move away from illegal migration reflects tectonic cultural changes occurring throughout Mexico, but especially in small towns known as emigration hubs.
An excerpt:
A growing body of evidence suggests that a mix of developments - expanding economic and educational opportunities, rising border crime, and shrinking families - are suppressing illegal traffic as much as economic slowdowns or immigrant crackdowns in the United States.
Here in the red-earth highlands of Jalisco, one of Mexico's top three states for emigration over the last century, a new dynamic has emerged. For rural families like the Orozcos, heading to El Norte without papers is no longer an inevitable rite of passage. Instead, their homes are filling up with returning relatives; older brothers who once crossed illegally are awaiting visas; and the youngest Orozcos are staying put.
"I'm not going to go to the States because I'm more concerned with my studies," said Angel Orozco, 18. Indeed, at the new technological institute where he is earning an industrial engineering degree, every student in a recent class said they were better educated than their parents and that they planned to stay in Mexico rather than go to the United States.
I will also be posting comments and taking questions on Twitter, via @damiencave. I look forward to the discussion.

        
Addressing Some Misperceptions About Mexican Immigration
        
Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
        
Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
        
Tear Gas Over Borders
        
Breaking Point in Immigration Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FAMILY (87%); WRITERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ENGINEERING (60%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%) immigration; Mexico; Cave, Damien; Economic Conditions and Trends; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; Latin America; United States; americas; u.s.; world

PERSON: Cave, Damien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (88%) Latin America; Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



173 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Looking at Ken Lay and the Lack of Financial Crisis Cases

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Kenneth L. Lay, the former chief executive of Enron who died of a heart attack five years ago today, became the public symbol of executive wrongdoing and financial malfeasance. Why does that matter today?

 BODY:
Kenneth L. Lay, the former chief executive of Enron, died of a heart attack five years ago today. The stunning news came a month after a Houston jury convicted him of securities fraud and three months before his scheduled sentencing.
Mr. Lay, along with Enron's president, Jeffrey K. Skilling, became the public symbol of executive wrongdoing and financial malfeasance after the stock market boom of the late 1990s turned to bust. 
Why does this matter today?
The media and public continue to hammer away at the lack of criminal prosecutions related to the financial crisis. In a New York magazine cover story this week, Frank Rich wrote: "What haunts the Obama administration is what still haunts the country: the stunning lack of accountability for the greed and misdeeds that brought America to its gravest financial crisis since the Great Depression. There has been no legal, moral, or financial reckoning for the most powerful wrongdoers." 
And over the weekend, my uncle Ronald, an accountant on Long Island, whom I have always considered a proxy for public sentiment, approached me at a family wedding. "Why isn't Angelo Mozilo in jail?" he asked.
Federal prosecutors bristle at such criticism. Irresponsible business practices do not necessarily lead to criminal cases against bank executives, they say. 
"In any arc in a movie, when someone treated his or her spouse badly, you want to see that person pay for that later," said Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, in a recent interview in The New Yorker. "Doesn't mean it's a criminal act. There are lots of bad people out there who I can't charge criminally."
Which brings us back to Mr. Lay. After the late-2001 collapse of Enron punctuated the end of that era, the Bush administration acted swiftly in taking an aggressive stance on white-collar crime. In July 2002, President Bush, who counted Mr. Lay as a friend and financial supporter, created the Corporate Fraud Task Force in the Justice Department. 
That task force secured nearly 1,300 corporate fraud convictions, including cases against more than 200 chief executives, company presidents and chief financial officers, according to a 2008 report. Many of the highest-profile prosecutions from that era, including those of Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling, were hardly layups. Securing a conviction in a complex corporate accounting case is challenging as trials often get bogged down in complex financial arcana and can confuse a jury.
President Obama terminated the Corporate Fraud Task Force with the establishment of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force in November 2009. 
Last Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a sleepy and sparsely attended hearing on the work of the inter-agency task force. At the session, Justice Department officials trumpeted the prosecutions of Lee Farkas, the head of mortgage lender Taylor & Bean, who was sentenced to 30 years last week, and Charles Antonucci, the former head of Park Avenue Bank, who pleaded guilty to stealing more than $11 million in taxpayer bailout funds.
Seemingly dissatisfied, Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, asked a federal prosecutor from her home state for another example of someone in prison as result of the task force's work. He cited Tom Petters, a Minnesota businessman serving time after admitting to perpetrating a large corporate Ponzi scheme.
Farkas. Antonucci. Petters. While all serious criminals, the three barely register as footnotes of the financial crisis.
Those names stand in stark contrast to Mr. Lay and his fellow corporate executives brought low in the last wave of corporate-crime prosecutions. Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling were among the most admired executives in corporate America. So were Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom, John J. Rigas of Adelphia, and L. Dennis Kozlowski of Tyco. 
Except for Mr. Lay, whose death wiped out his conviction, each of them still sits in prison.

        
Behind the Fade-Out of Options Backdating Cases
        
In Madoff, a Court Trusts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); DEATHS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%) Amy Klobuchar; Bernard J. Ebbers; Charles Antonucci; Enron; John J. Rigas of Adelphia; Justice Department; Kenneth L. Lay; L. Dennis Kozlowski; Lee Farkas; Preet S. Bharara; Taylor & Bean; Tom Petters; Tyco; WorldCom; Lay, Kenneth L; Enron Corp; Energy/Utilities; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp; Justice Department

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); FRANK RICH (54%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (54%) Lay, Kenneth L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



174 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: The Legend of Margaret Thatcher

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: The conservative embrace of the former British prime minister in the United States shows that many are unfamiliar with her tax and spending policies, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul.Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, here in 2008, is venerated by many conservative Republicans in the United States.Republicans have always admired former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain. Her 1979 election excited them enormously; Republicans viewed it as proof that their views were on the upswing and greatly increased their confidence that Ronald Reagan would be elected president in 1980 as part of a worldwide conservative trend.
Mrs. Thatcher's stature among the American right has only increased since she was ousted by her own party in 1990. This is especially true now. Benjy Sarlin of Talking Points Memo says Mrs. Thatcher "has always been a popular figure in Republican circles across the pond, but she seems to have taken on a new relevance in recent years for the party's leading lights."
Mr. Sarlin cites a blog post on Mitt Romney's Web site that draws a parallel between economic conditions in Britain in the late 1970s and those in America today. He reports that Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum also invoke Thatcher's name frequently in their quest for the Republican presidential nomination. And last month, Sarah Palin publicly requested a meeting with Thatcher that fell through because of Mrs. Thatcher's physical condition.
While Mrs. Thatcher is a towering figure in British political history, well deserving of admiration, the conservative legend about her time in power is at odds with the facts. In this legend, she was even more aggressive than Reagan in cutting taxes and the welfare state. But that is not true.
As this table shows, taxes as a share of the gross domestic product in Britain actually increased sharply during Mrs. Thatcher's first seven years in office before falling in the later years. Even at the end, they were significantly higher than they were when she took office. Spending also rose during her first seven years before falling in Mrs. Thatcher's later years.
To those familiar with Mrs. Thatcher's tax policies, these data are not surprising. Although she cut the top personal income tax rate to 60 percent from 83 percent immediately upon taking office, the basic tax rate was only reduced to 30 percent from 33 percent. And in 1980, the 25 percent lower rate of taxation was eliminated so that 30 percent became the lowest tax rate.
More importantly, Mrs. Thatcher paid for her 1979 tax cut by nearly doubling the value-added tax to 15 percent, from 8 percent. Among those who thought Mrs. Thatcher was making a dreadful mistake was the American economist Arthur Laffer. Writing in The Wall Street Journal on Aug. 20, 1979, he excoriated her for taking with the one hand while giving with the other.
"The Thatcher budget lowers tax rates where they have little economic consequence and raises tax rates where they affect economic activity directly," he complained.
In the 1982 forward to the British edition of his American best-seller, "Wealth and Poverty," George Gilder was also highly critical of Mrs. Thatcher for failing to cut either taxes or spending: "The net effect of the Thatcher program has been a substantial increase in taxation on virtually all taxpayers."
Although Mrs. Thatcher privatized many British industries and businesses that had been nationalized after World War II and sold off much of Britain's public housing, in which the bulk of the working class lived, she did little to reduce the size of the nation's welfare state.
In particular, Mrs. Thatcher, like all the members of her party, strongly supported the National Health Service, which provides national health insurance for every Briton.
A review of long-term spending trends in Britain by the Institute for Fiscal Studies shows that Mrs. Thatcher basically flattened a trajectory that had been rising since the war. That took a lot of political effort even though her party controlled Parliament and the prime minister of Britain has far fewer constitutional constraints than an American president. But at the end of the Thatcher era, the welfare state was still intact.
As Martin Wolf, a columnist for The Financial Times, told me, "Like all great politicians, Thatcher was a pragmatist, not an ideologue, who picked her fights carefully. She recognized that any head-on attack on the welfare state would have destroyed the party's electability."
Mr. Wolf said Mrs. Thatcher was far more concerned about fiscal stability and deficit reduction than lower taxes, and the idea that a debt default "would have been sensible would, to her, have been insane."
Mrs. Thatcher, like Reagan, moved her country in a conservative direction. But Mrs. Thatcher's fiscal accomplishments were much more modest than many of today's Republicans think.
The lesson they should learn from her is that it is very hard to shrink the size of government even when a strong leader has complete control of the legislature, that it takes many years of arduous work to do so and that at the end of the day it won't shrink very much.

        
Who Doesn't Pay Federal Income Taxes (Legally)
        
Are Taxes in the U.S. High or Low?
        
Is the Fair Tax Herman Cain's Ace in the Hole?
        
Can We Afford the Military Budget?
        
What Your Taxes Do (and Don't) Buy for You

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); VALUE ADDED TAX (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (66%); INCOME TAX (60%) Bruce Bartlett; conservatism; Conservative Party; Daily Economist; margaret thatcher; nationalization; politics; spending; Taxation; Thatcher, Margaret H; Economic Conditions and Trends; Great Britain

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%) Thatcher, Margaret H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



175 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Week Ahead: Debt Limit Deadline Approaches

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: Senators denied their Fourth of July break will join House members on Capitol Hill this week for what promises to be more saber rattling over the debt limit hike.

 BODY:
Senators denied their Fourth of July break will join House members on Capitol Hill this week for what promises to be more saber rattling over the debt limit increase as well as debate over the role of the United States military in Libya and Afghanistan.
With less than a month remaining before the Treasury Department's Aug. 2 deadline for an increase in the federal debt ceiling, President Obama and Democratic leaders are scheduled to meet Wednesday in search of a way out of the impasse over raising the borrowing limit. 
At the same time, officials say there could be some nonbinding "Sense of the Senate" votes to allow members of both parties to formally register their opinions on how a deal clearing the way for a debt limit increase should be structured.
Over the weekend, Republicans warned that President Obama and Democrats should not try to strike a deal at the last minute and then expect Republicans to help push it through under threat of a fiscal calamity if the debt limit is not raised. 
"We are running up against this deadline," Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on "Fox News Sunday." "And they're going to try to present it as a fait accompli; nobody is going to have time to read it or consider the implications of it, and it's going to say you have to pass it or the economy is going down the tubes. That's just irresponsible."
Lawmakers and aides say the president and Congressional leaders need to strike some sort of agreement in the next three weeks to give lawmakers any chance of putting together a measure and winning House and Senate approval before Aug. 2. 
The Senate was supposed to be in recess this week, but sniping between the White House and Congressional Republicans over who did and did not have their noses to the grindstone led the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, to cancel the break. The House was out last week and was scheduled to be in session.
Given the political posturing that went on last week, pessimism mounted in both parties about the prospects for a compromise deficit-reduction plan. Lawmakers and the financial markets will be watching intently this week to see if the tone of the debate has improved.
While the debt limit action will occur mainly behind the scenes, the Senate has set a vote for Tuesday to bring a bipartisan resolution to the floor authorizing United States participation in military operations in Libya. 
The Pentagon will also be the focus of attention in the House as lawmakers take up the annual military spending measure. Amendments to cut off financing for intervention in Libya are expected, as are votes on the nation's continuing military role in Afghanistan.

        
Could Obama Just Ignore the Debt Ceiling?
        
A Call for Lower-Key Debate on Debt Limit
        
Boehner Lays Out Path on Debt Limit
        
Rubio Steps Into Spotlight on Debt Fight
        
House Republicans Prepare to Get Back to Business

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); DEBT CEILING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); POLITICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) debt limit; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); HARRY REID (59%); JOHN CORNYN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



176 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Best Political Quotes of the Holiday Weekend

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Did you pay more attention to fireworks and barbecue than you did to politics during the long weekend? No worries, The Caucus has compiled some of the best political moments.

 BODY:
Did you pay more attention to fireworks and barbecue than you did to politics during the long weekend? No worries, The Caucus has compiled some of the best political moments.
1. Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, said his campaign's troubles during the past month have hurt his fundraising, which will come up short when he files his paperwork later this month. "Our numbers will not be as good as we would like, and candidly, the consultants left us in debt," Mr. Gingrich told the Los Angeles Times. "But every single week since they left we've been cutting down the debt, and we raise more than we spend in a week." Mr. Gingrich's criticism of the Republican budget proposals and reports of lines of credit at Tiffany's led to a major staff departure from the Gingrich campaign last month.
2. It was easy to miss, but another presidential candidate has jumped into the race. Representative Thaddeus McCotter, Republican of Michigan, announced on Saturday that he is running for president. "What we need in Washington is someone who knows the future is not big government," McCotter told a group of about 400, according to the Detroit News. Mr. McCotter is hardly a national name and has so far not hired any staff or signaled what his presidential campaign would be about. But the Detroit newspaper also quoted Mr. McCotter's mother saying, "Never underestimate Thaddeus."
3. As the deadline approaches for a deal on raising the nation's debt, two Republican senators indicated over the weekend that they may be open to some tax increases. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on Fox News Sunday that he could support closing some tax loopholes, as Democrats have insisted, as long as other tax rates went down. "So, as you eliminate these tax expenditures, if you bring the top rates down, that's revenue neutral. That's not raising taxes," he said. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said on CNN's State of the Union that there were some ways the government might raise new revenue that "perhaps we could work on." But he reiterated his view that not raising taxes is "a principle that we promised the American people last year November and that we have to stick to."
4. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, continues to be dogged by Democratic accusations of flip-flopping on the issue of whether the economy is getting worse or not under President Obama. Marching in a July 4th parade in New Hampshire on Monday, Mr. Romney said again that "there's no questions that the recession was made deeper and more painful" and added that Mr. Obama "made the recession worse and the recovery more anemic." Democrats immediately pointed out that last week, Mr. Romney acknowledged that the economy has improved, saying in Pennsylvania that "I didn't say that things were worse. What I said was the economy hasn't turned around." A spokeswoman for Mr. Romney told Politico that the early comment was in regard to the stock market, which has surged during Mr. Obama's tenure. "If the Democrats are waiting for Mitt Romney to ease up on his criticism of President Obama's economic record, it's simply not going to happen," the spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said.
5. Former president Bill Clinton made a last-minute appearance over the weekend at the Aspen Ideas Festival and offered his thoughts on the 2012 presidential race. He predicted that Mr. Obama will be reelected and offered his thoughts about the Republican condensers, saying, "You know, I like the governors." He said that Mr. Romney is "a much better candidate than he was last time, because he's not apologizing for signing the health care bill. He's got another creative way of saying we ought to repeal Obamacare, but that's probably the price of getting the nomination." He said that Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah "looks like a real guy. I mean a real human being." And he said that Representative Michele Bachmann has been "a better candidate than I thought she'd be, and I don't agree with her on nearly anything. But she's got a very compelling personal story, and she got a lot of juice."
6. Even as a government shutdown in Minnesota continued into its sixth day, Tim Pawlenty began showing a new television ad in Iowa touting a previous state shutdown that he presided over as governor of Minnesota. The new ad (see above) notes that during Mr. Pawlenty's tenure, the government was forced to shut down as Mr. Pawlenty refused to accept demands for tax increases by the Democratic legislature. "Minnesota government shut down. Why? Because Tim Pawlenty would not accept Democrats' massive tax-and-spending demands," the ad says. "Result? Pawlenty won."

        
2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now
        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Being an Ex-Governor a Double-Edged Sword for 2012 
        
Running Against Bachmann Poses Challenges for Male Rivals
        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (54%) 2012; 2012 elections; barack obama; Congress; Democrats; Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; newt gingrich; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Bachmann, Michele M; Clinton, Bill; Cornyn, John; Gingrich, Newt; McCain, John; McCotter, Thaddeus G; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2012; Minnesota; New Hampshire; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (71%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); THADDEUS G MCCOTTER (90%); JOHN CORNYN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIM PAWLENTY (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (88%) Bachmann, Michele M; Clinton, Bill; Cornyn, John; Gingrich, Newt; McCain, John; McCotter, Thaddeus G; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Minnesota; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



177 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says Obama 'Made Things Worse'

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Campaigning in New Hampshire on Tuesday, Mitt Romney once again blamed President Obama for worsening the recession.

 BODY:
WOLFEBORO, N.H. - Sounding very much like a general election candidate, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts on Tuesday set out an argument for ousting President Obama, whom he again blamed for worsening the recession and slowing the recovery.
"He didn't cause the recession as we know," Mr. Romney said at a town-hall-style meeting here. "He didn't make it better, he made things worse."
Mr. Romney made his comments to a large gathering of his neighbors in this lakeside resort town, where he has a vacation home. And they came after Mr. Romney seemed to lighten his economic attack on Mr. Obama last week, by telling a reporter he had never blamed Mr. Obama for making the recession worse - which has been disputed by some economists given that it officially ended four months after Mr. Obama took office - but, rather, that he made the recovery slower.
Mr. Romney had on various occasions indeed blamed Mr. Obama for making the recession worse - as he did again on Tuesday - and Democrats had taken his comments as a retreat. It had all seemed to put Mr. Romney and his campaign on the defensive.Speaking here on Tuesday, Mr. Romney filled out his critique against Mr. Obama, blaming his approaches to banking regulation, the 2009 stimulus program and his health care overhaul for dragging down the economy and prolonging the recession.
Speaking of the stimulus program, Mr. Romney said, "Instead of creating private-sector jobs, it created government jobs."
He said the new financial services regulations Mr. Obama helped push through Congress - and signed into law last July - "tremendously added to the regulatory burden."
He said early moves by Democrats to pass so-called cap and trade legislation to curb emissions toward the start of Mr. Obama's term created uncertainty for American industry and slowed corporate spending and hiring. "When you hear the price of energy's going to go way up," he said, "you pull back."
And, reprising his critique of Mr. Obama's health care plan as representing federal overreach, Mr. Romney said it too hurt growth. "At a time when we wanted small business and entrepreneurs to step forward, what he did was caused them to pull back," he said, adding it all "made the recession deeper and caused it to last longer, and the recovery more anemic."
Even though Mr. Romney was on his adopted home turf, he faced some tough questions, including on the health care plan he pushed into law in Massachusetts, which the White House has promoted as a model for its own. Asked if he would seek to stop states from the "tyranny" of enacting a mandate like the one he put in place in Massachusetts requiring all citizens to buy health insurance, Mr. Romney said he would not.
Asked whether he now viewed his health care plan as a mistake, he said he did not. "I'm pretty proud of the fact that we took on a tough situation," he said. "Ninety-eight percent of the people in my state now are insured."
Throughout the event here, there was nary a mention of the other Republicans whom Mr. Romney will have to fight to win his party's nomination. But Mr. Romney subtly acknowledged the fight ahead with a joking reference to his last campaign as he spoke at the Bayside Grill and Tavern here.
In describing the local fireworks display on Monday night - which he said he took in with his family from the deck of his Boston Whaler - he said they were sort of like his last run for office: "pretty good at the middle and then at the end it petered out."

        
Romney Says Closed Steel Plant Symbolizes Obama's Failures
        
Romney Video Attacks Obama on Stimulus and Economy
        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
Romney Talks Economy in Nevada
        
Romney's Detours on Detroit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); LEGISLATION (86%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); BANKING LAW (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) economy; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; New Hampshire; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



178 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Independent Group Bolsters Romney's Fund-Raising Totals

BYLINE: NICHOLAS CONFESSORE


HIGHLIGHT: A new pro-Romney super PAC, Restore Our Future, announced on Tuesday that it had raised $12 million during the first six months of the year.

 BODY:
When Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, releases his campaign fund-raising filings this month, he is expected to report somewhere south of $20 million in contributions for the second quarter of the year -- more than any of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, but somewhat less than might be expected for the candidate who has built the most robust fund-raising operation in the G.O.P. field.
But in a sign of how recent court decisions loosening campaign rules may upend traditional assumptions about political fund-raising this cycle, a new pro-Romney super PAC, Restore Our Future, announced on Tuesday that it had raised $12 million during the first six months of the year, with $12 million in cash on hand.
"There is tremendous support across the country for Mitt Romney," Charlie Spies, treasurer for Restore Our Future, said in a statement. "Americans are coming out in support of Gov. Romney because they are confident he has the experience to turn our economy around." 
Like all such independent groups, Restore Our Future, which was founded and is run by former Romney aides, is not permitted to coordinate with the candidate. But it can raise and spend unlimited funds on ads aimed at President Obama or even other Republican candidates, making it possible for a relatively small group of deep-pocketed Romney supporters to spend far more to help him than they could simply by writing checks to his campaign. (The names and number of donors to the group will be included in Restore Our Future's formal filings with the Federal Election Commission later this month.)
Under an F.E.C. ruling last week, Mr. Romney is also permitted to solicit funds for the super PAC, though such donations are subject to the same contribution limits as checks sent to Mr. Romney's own campaign. A spokeswoman for Restore Our Future said Mr. Romney had not helped raise any money for the group so far, but did not rule out future help from the candidate.
Former aides to Mr. Obama have set up their own independent expenditure group, Priorities USA Action, to raise and spend money for the 2012 race.
A spokesman for the Obama campaign said on Tuesday that the president would not be soliciting funds for independent groups.
"Neither the president nor his campaign staff or aides will fund-raise for super PACs," said the spokesman, Ben LaBolt.
None of the other major presidential candidates are backed by independent expenditure groups, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.

        
Was Huntsman 'Self-Financing' or 'Priming the Pump'?
        
Romney to Hold Fund-Raiser in London
        
Obama Campaign Cultivates Clinton Donors
        
Huntsman Says No 'Self-Financing' if He Runs
        
Huckabee's Daughter to Join Pawlenty Campaign

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (93%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (56%) 2012 presidential campaign; campaign fund-raising; Romney, Mitt; Campaign Finance; Presidential Election of 2012; Priorities USA; Campaign Cash

ORGANIZATION: Priorities USA

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



179 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Struggling for Power in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By GLENN ZORPETTE. 
Glenn Zorpette is the executive editor of I.E.E.E. Spectrum, the magazine of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

 BODY:
THE Western campaign for hearts and minds in Afghanistan is based heavily on providing roads, dams, buildings and, especially, electricity. The United States Agency for International Development, or U.S.A.I.D., expects to spend $2.1 billion this year in Afghanistan. It has been working there for half a century, since the Soviets and Americans were competing to be the country's development partners.
So you'd think that a new five-year, $1.2 billion program that U.S.A.I.D. has proposed to create a modern electrical grid there would be a model. You'd be quite wrong.
When it comes to electricity, the agency has a dismal record, one that needs to be reviewed now, before the grid plan moves ahead. Afghanistan is in the bottom 10 percent of the world in electricity consumption per capita; if recent patterns hold, it will stay there as U.S.A.I.D. and the State Department try to appease the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, and also give American officials a veneer of victory over Afghanistan's problems as American troops start to withdraw. President Obama's desire to speed the withdrawal makes the issue more urgent. 
As in Iraq, the main American electrical reconstruction effort in Afghanistan is divided between U.S.A.I.D. and the Army Corps of Engineers. Of the two, the Corps has proved far more efficient.
The biggest project until now has been a 105-megawatt diesel power plant at Tarakhil, outside Kabul. It took the aid agency nearly three years to get it built. And as documented by the reporters Pratap Chatterjee of the CorpWatch news service and Marisa Taylor of McClatchy Newspapers, the Kabul plant became emblematic of the agency's struggles.
Its contractors were the Louis Berger Group and Black & Veatch. Last year, U.S.A.I.D.'s inspector general said delays and contracting problems at the project had cost nearly $40 million, out of a total outlay of more than $300 million.
The agency itself had criticized Black & Veatch in letters to the company and in performance reports. So analysts who followed the contracting -- including academics, lawyers, legislators and journalists -- were stunned last October when U.S.A.I.D. offered Black & Veatch a $266 million contract, without competitive bidding, for other electrical projects in Afghanistan. The agency has cited the special challenges of war-zone work.
And in the end, the Kabul plant most often has sat idle, as it supplements power from abroad. Current prices for diesel fuel trucked into a war zone have driven its operating costs to around 40 cents per kilowatt-hour, seven times the 6 cents that a kilowatt-hour imported over transmission lines from Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan or Tajikistan costs.
Another U.S.A.I.D. failure was at the Shorandam Industrial Park, near the city of Kandahar, which I visited with American military engineers in April. In 2005, U.S.A.I.D. set out to install 10 diesel generators able to produce 6.6 megawatts together. But it had a dispute with its initial contractor about costs and later said the generators had been damaged by an improvised explosive device.
After the generators sat in storage for five years, the agency contracted with Black & Veatch to finally install them; now the agency hopes to get the facility running this month. Meanwhile, the Corps of Engineers contracted for a 10-megawatt facility on the same site last July; it went into full operation on Dec. 2.
Why have two American agencies planned two different diesel-generating facilities in the same location, but with different transformers, switches, contractors and manufacturers? That's a good question -- one of many I couldn't get a sensible answer to in the three weeks I spent in Afghanistan reporting for my magazine on the projects.
Now U.S.A.I.D. is about to start its five-year initiative to rebuild, improve, expand and tie together Afghanistan's decrepit electrical networks into a single modern grid. It's an excellent idea, but the agency and the Afghan national utility are not up to the challenge.
In an annex to a U.S.A.I.D. report, dated March 5 and given to me in Afghanistan, the agency outlines a nine-part mechanism for contracting and financing the many projects. It indicates its intention to put the national utility in overall charge, with the agency as a sort of supervisor and intermediary with the Afghan Finance Ministry. Just last week at a briefing in Washington, the utility's chief executive officer, Abdul Razique Samadi, enthusiastically looked forward to getting to work on the project.
According to the March 5 outline of the project, the utility would control $906 million to be issued over five years -- most of the budget. But that makes no sense. The utility has no experience with large-scale international contracting work, and most of its existing grids are ancient. No technical specialist outside of U.S.A.I.D. with whom I spoke in Afghanistan thinks the utility can direct and monitor the work of perhaps dozens of Western contractors and subcontractors. ''It's almost like we're setting them up for failure,'' one development official told me.
Why is U.S.A.I.D. pushing this scheme? It is under intense pressure from two sides: from its State Department overseers, who want to show progress before the troop pullouts are well under way, and from President Karzai, who wants more control over development funds and activities. Giving the utility and the Afghan Finance Ministry control of this project could satisfy both parties, at least on paper.
At its core, the problem isn't the utility's inadequacy; it is U.S.A.I.D.'s. The agency has shown an inability to manage large electrical projects. Its programs change with the policy goals of the American administrations it serves, and it seems to lack officials in Afghanistan who arrived with prior experience in electrical projects and contracting.
What to do? Turn the projects over to the Army Corps of Engineers. It has performed better than U.S.A.I.D. on electrical projects in Afghanistan; it is less hobbled by politics; it has experienced engineers. It's critical that this happen soon, because the Corps can expect to be withdrawn with the rest of the Army, even if the timetable isn't set.
Yes, a transfer of responsibility would upset the delicate war-zone power balance between the State and Defense Departments. And the military isn't supposed to do long-term development overseas. But weigh those objections against the record: U.S.A.I.D.'s performance in Afghanistan's electrical sector has been so poor for so long that we can expect many millions of dollars to be wasted unless the administration acts now to give a vast new project a better chance of succeeding before only the aid agency is left in Afghanistan to struggle with the job.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY COSIMO GALLUZZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (89%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ARMIES (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); WRITERS (69%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (64%); DIESEL FUEL (64%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%)

COMPANY: LOUIS BERGER GROUP INC (53%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); IRAQ (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



180 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Antitax Extremism in Minnesota: Republicans would rather shut down state government than raise taxes on the rich

 BODY:
How far will Republican lawmakers go to protect millionaires? Those who think a default on the federal government's credit seems implausible should take a sobering look at the ''closed'' signs dotting Minnesota. The Republican Party there readily shut down the state's government on Friday by refusing to raise taxes on the 7,700 Minnesotans who make more than $1 million a year. 
Gov. Mark Dayton, a Democrat, campaigned for office last year promising to raise taxes on high earners, so it was no surprise when he proposed a tax increase on families making more than $150,000 a year to help close a $5 billion budget gap. In negotiations with the Republican majority in the Legislature, he compromised and reduced the increase to those making $1 million or more, but Republicans are refusing to consider any income tax increase.
Like Republicans in Washington, they have the delusion that they can balance the budget entirely from cuts.
The governor proposed more than $2 billion in cuts but refused to slash billions more from education, health care and public safety programs. The Legislature also wanted new abortion restrictions and a voter ID law that Mr. Dayton had already vetoed. When he said no, lawmakers allowed the fiscal year to end without a budget, and state government officially shut on July 1.
More than 40 state agencies have closed, including the state parks over the July Fourth holiday. Courts and public safety agencies are operating, but essential services for the poor, like food pantries and child care subsidies, have evaporated. Many parents say they may have to quit their jobs if state-subsidized child care does not resume quickly. The shutdown will cost the state money, since many of the 22,000 laid-off workers will receive unemployment benefits and health insurance, while the treasury is unable to collect on tax audits, lottery tickets and park fees.
As painful as the closure may become, the governor is right not to yield to the extremist ideology the Republicans are pursuing in St. Paul, Washington and across the country. President Obama has done so twice and faces an emboldened opposition willing to create chaos in the credit markets rather than agree to modest revenue increases from the richest people. On Tuesday, he urged everyone to leave ultimatums at the door in this week's talks, but the Republican Party has shown no willingness to do so.
Their antitax radicalism, maintained at any cost, is doing enormous damage at all levels. It is preventing Wilmington, N.C., from buying a new fire truck, preventing the most vulnerable in dozens of states from receiving subsistence benefits, and may soon engulf the economy if the standoff in Washington does not end. In Minnesota, there is now a chance to draw a line and say, no further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); VETO (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); FAMILY (75%); TAX AUDITS (71%); TRUCK SAFETY (71%); LOTTERIES (71%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); AUDITS (65%); STATE PARKS (65%); CHILD CARE (64%); INCOME TAX (53%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%); ABORTION (52%)

PERSON: MARK DAYTON (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (50%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



181 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed Finish After a Downgrade of Portugal's Debt

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Major stock indexes ended mixed on Tuesday after Moody's downgraded Portugal's debt to junk status.
The credit ratings agency cited concern that Portugal would not be able to meet goals for reducing its deficit because of the ''formidable challenges'' the country is facing in cutting spending.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 12.90, or 0.1 percent, to close at 12,569.87. The Dow had risen as many as 19 points in morning trading after the Commerce Department reported an increase in orders for manufactured goods. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.79, or 0.1 percent, to 1,337.88. The Nasdaq composite index rose 9.74, or 0.3 percent, to 2,825.77.
Bond prices rose, sending yields lower, as investors sought the relative safety of Treasuries. The benchmark 10-year note rose 17/32, to 100 2/32, and the yield fell to 3.12 percent from 3.18 percent late Friday.
Investors have been worried that Europe's debt problems could slow the global economy and cause a crisis for European banks. ''The European debt crisis is going to be with us for a while,'' said David Kelly, chief market strategist at J. P. Morgan Funds. ''There still is a very big issue out there.''
Tuesday's trading volume was light with many traders on vacation after the United States markets were closed Monday for the Fourth of July holiday. Many investors are looking ahead to next week, when the aluminum maker Alcoa becomes the first major United States company to report results for the most recent quarter.
Last week, the Dow rose 648 points, its best week in two years, after Nike reported strong earnings and Greece cleared its final hurdle to receive another round of loans. Automakers also reported that their sales rose 7 percent in June compared with the comparable month a year ago.
Those gains erased nearly six weeks of losses. Stocks had been falling since late April because of concerns about the debt crisis in Europe, weak home sales in the United States and slow manufacturing. By mid-June, stocks had given up most of their gains for the year.
With last week's rally, the Dow is down 1.8 percent from April 29, when it reached a three-year high. The Dow is up 8.6 percent for the year. The S.& P. 500 is up 6.4 percent and the Nasdaq composite is up 6.5 percent.
''There hasn't yet really been a reason to get concerned about corporate America,'' said Randall Warren, chief investment officer of Warren Financial Service. ''It's the rest of the America that's struggling.''
Even though companies have been reporting higher profits, unemployment has remained stubbornly high since the recession officially ended in June 2009. The Labor Department will report the latest figures on unemployment and payrolls on Friday, and analysts expect to hear more bad news. Many predict that the unemployment rate will remain at 9.1 percent, unchanged from May. They also expect that employers added only 90,000 jobs last month, below the 100,000 threshold that economists say is needed to prevent the unemployment rate from increasing.
Several stocks rose sharply on deals and other news. Immucor, a maker of blood-testing equipment, rose more than 30 percent after it agreed to be bought by a private investment firm, TPG Capital, in a deal worth $1.97 billion.
Southern Union, which operates oil pipelines, rose 4.2 percent after Energy Transfer Equity said it would pay $5.1 billion for the company. The deal trumped a $4.9 billion bid made in late June by a rival, the Williams Companies.
Netflix rose 8.1 percent, more than any company in the S.& P. 500, after announcing that it would expand its online video streaming service to 43 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Chevron rose 1 percent, more than any stock in the Dow index, after the price of crude oil rose $1.95, to $96.89 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); EURO CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



182 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: With Help From Others, Newark Is Building for Business

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Last month, a few dozen people donned hairnets and crowded around a huge oven here to sample a 25-foot matzo, which was billed as the largest ever baked. The event celebrated the completion of the new headquarters of the kosher food giant Manischewitz in this city's industrial East Ward.
In attendance -- and sprinkling his keynote speech with a few Yiddishisms -- was Mayor Cory A. Booker, who has overseen hundreds of millions of dollars in new development since taking office in 2006. 
More than $700 million in new construction projects are under way this year, providing an estimated 2,500 on-site jobs, and city officials say that figure could reach $1 billion next year. Supporters of the Booker administration point to that as evidence that Newark, a city synonymous with urban decay, high crime and rampant corruption, has turned a corner.
The charismatic Mr. Booker, at 42 no longer the brash upstart who in 2002 mounted a bold and unsuccessful challenge to the longtime Mayor Sharpe James, is largely behind the push for new development. And after turning down a job offer in the Obama administration, Mr. Booker has tied his fate to Newark's: if this city of 280,000 can come back from a steep decline, he could claim a place on the national stage.
New developments are springing up across town, including a movie theater renovation by the basketball star Shaquille O'Neal, splashy residential lofts and a Courtyard by Marriott, the first new hotel in 40 years, according to the city. The waterfront is getting its first park in the city's history.
In addition to Manischewitz, other companies relocating here include Pitney Bowes, Bartlett Dairy, the audiobook company Audible.com and Wakefern, ShopRite's supplier. In the biggest corporate move yet, the Panasonic Corporation announced in April that it would move from Secaucus to a 350,000-square-foot tower to be built across from Newark Penn Station, the city's first new office tower in two decades.
''We're bending over backwards to make companies feel welcome, to do whatever we can to bring them here,'' Mr. Booker said at the Manischewitz ribbon-cutting.
Mr. O'Neal's $7 million renovation of Newark Screens, the city's only movie theater, will double the number of screens to 12, add stadium seating, 3-D projectors and 25,000 additional square feet. Built in partnership with Boraie Development of New Brunswick, N.J., it is to be partly financed with state and city money. Located on Springfield Avenue in the Central Ward, the site of 1967 race riots, the boxy building is across from a bail bond shop and an Applebee's; the lobby has worn red vinyl bench seats and faded advertisements for nachos, slushies and popcorn.
''We want to give the kids in Newark something to do,'' said Mr. O'Neal, who grew up in the Central Ward. ''We want to go in there and beautify Newark.''
Newark has assets like train stations, universities, a major port, an international airport, a performing arts center and the new Prudential Center arena. But it also has Mr. Booker, who may be the city's biggest draw.
''If our experience with this administration hadn't been very good, we probably would have put our headquarters somewhere else,'' said Paul Bensabat, a co-president of Manischewitz. ''There are no two ways about it.''
Despite the activity, the city has neighborhoods crippled by blight and foreclosures, high unemployment, an overall population nearly half of what it was at its height and a punishingly high crime rate.
''The real devil in the formula has been the foreclosures. We're seeing foreclosures on blocks that we'd made whole,'' said Ray Ocasio, the executive director of La Casa de Don Pedro, a Newark-based community development organization, adding that much of the city's emphasis has been on high-end developments rather than neighborhood revitalization projects.
Newark has to entice businesses to put shovels in the ground when the cost of construction is as high as in Manhattan, but the rents are substantially lower. The city's office vacancy rate is 15.9 percent, and space rents for less than $24 a square foot, compared with about $58 a square foot in Manhattan, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
To bring in new construction, Mr. Booker has turned to state subsidies. Of the 25 projects in development this year, 20 of them received public financing. The biggest winner was Panasonic, which received a $102.4 million tax credit from the state for building near a transit hub. Of the $822 million in state tax credits doled out in the last 18 months, $208 million has gone to Newark, according to New Jersey Policy Perspective, a research group.
''We would never have been able to advocate successfully without these measures,'' said Stefan Pryor, the city's deputy mayor for economic development. ''The legacy of these temporary measures will be permanent. Newark will permanently be on a new trajectory.''
Critics worry that the subsidies have failed to deliver jobs, the intended purpose of the stimulus program. Newark, the state's largest city, has an unemployment rate of 15.4 percent, compared with 9.4 percent for New Jersey as a whole. Of the 2,500 permanent jobs the developments will bring to Newark, only about half of them are new. The rest, like the 800 Panasonic jobs, are pre-existing positions. And of the new jobs, like the 60 at Marriott, many are relatively low-paying service work.
''Building hotels so people want to stay overnight in Newark? I'm not sure that's the best way to build Newark's economy. I think it's a spotty plan,'' said Deborah Howlett, the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective.
Certainly, many of the changes are visible. A streetscape project along Broad Street has added a median and flowers to what was a chaotic, treacherous crossing. Around the corner from the 150-room Marriott, asbestos abatement has begun for the renovation of a Cass Gilbert building that will reemerge next year as an Indigo hotel with a rooftop bar. And work is under way for a new Dinosaur Bar-B-Que restaurant to open onto Championship Plaza next to the arena.
''I call it selective improvement,'' said Marc E. Berson, the chairman of the Fidelco Group, which is building Dinosaur Bar-B-que with the Hanini Group. ''I can turn and say there are different segments that are doing fairly well. As I march around I see signals of change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among more than $700 million in new projects this year, a Courtyard by Marriott is under construction in Newark. The city says it is its first new hotel in 40 years.
 Stefan Pryor, deputy mayor for economic development, said the projects would not have happened without state subsidies, but the assistance would put Newark ''on a new trajectory.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); BASKETBALL (69%); BAIL (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); HISTORY (50%); RIOTS (50%)

COMPANY: MANISCHEWITZ CO (85%); PANASONIC CORP (65%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); PITNEY BOWES INC (53%); AUDIBLE INC (53%)

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (65%); 6752 (TSE) (65%); MAR (NYSE) (54%); PBI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (85%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (65%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



183 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IMMIGRATION UPENDED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3638 words

HEADLINE: Better Lives for Mexicans Cut Allure of Going North

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
AGUA NEGRA, Mexico -- The extraordinary Mexican migration that delivered millions of illegal immigrants to the United States over the past 30 years has sputtered to a trickle, and research points to a surprising cause: unheralded changes in Mexico that have made staying home more attractive.
A growing body of evidence suggests that a mix of developments -- expanding economic and educational opportunities, rising border crime and shrinking families -- are suppressing illegal traffic as much as economic slowdowns or immigrant crackdowns in the United States.
Here in the red-earth highlands of Jalisco, one of Mexico's top three states for emigration over the past century, a new dynamic has emerged. For a typical rural family like the Orozcos, heading to El Norte without papers is no longer an inevitable rite of passage. Instead, their homes are filling up with returning relatives; older brothers who once crossed illegally are awaiting visas; and the youngest Orozcos are staying put. 
''I'm not going to go to the States because I'm more concerned with my studies,'' said Angel Orozco, 18. Indeed, at the new technological institute where he is earning a degree in industrial engineering, all the students in a recent class said that they were better educated than their parents -- and that they planned to stay in Mexico rather than go to the United States.
Douglas S. Massey, a director of the Mexican Migration Project at Princeton, which conducts an extensive, long-term survey in Mexican emigration hubs, said his research showed that interest in heading to the United States for the first time had fallen to its lowest level since at least the 1950s. ''No one wants to hear it, but the flow has already stopped,'' Mr. Massey said, referring to illegal traffic. ''For the first time in 60 years, the net traffic has gone to zero and is probably a little bit negative.''
The decline in illegal immigration, from a country responsible for roughly 6 of every 10 illegal immigrants in the United States, is stark. The Mexican census recently discovered four million more people than had been projected, which officials attributed to a sharp decline in emigration.
American census figures analyzed by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center also show that the illegal Mexican population in the United States has shrunk and that fewer than 100,000 illegal border-crossers and visa-violators from Mexico settled in the United States in 2010, down from about 525,000 a year from 2000 to 2004. Although some advocates for more limited immigration say that the Pew estimates that do not include short-term migrants, most experts agree that far fewer illegal immigrants have been arriving in recent years.
The question is why. Experts and American politicians from both parties have generally looked inward, arguing about the success or failure of the buildup of border enforcement and tougher laws limiting illegal immigrants' rights -- like those recently passed in Alabama and Arizona. Deportations have reached record highs as total border apprehensions and apprehensions of Mexicans have fallen by more than 70 percent since 2000.
But Mexican immigration has always been defined by both the push (from Mexico) and the pull (of the United States). The decision to leave home involves a comparison, a wrenching cost-benefit analysis, and just as a Mexican baby boom and economic crises kicked off emigration waves in the 1980s and '90s, research shows that the easing of demographic and economic pressures is helping keep departures in check.
In simple terms, Mexican families are smaller than they once were, shrinking the pool of likely migrants. Despite the dominance of the Roman Catholic Church in Mexico, birth control efforts have pushed down the fertility rate to about 2 children per woman from 6.8 in 1970, according to government figures. So while Mexico added about one million new potential job seekers annually in the 1990s, since 2007 that figure has fallen to an average of 800,000, according to government birth records. By 2030, it is expected to drop to 300,000.
Even in larger families like the Orozcos' -- Angel is the 9th of 10 children -- the migration calculation has changed. Crossing ''mojado,'' wet or illegally, has become more expensive and more dangerous, particularly with drug cartels dominating the border. At the same time, educational and employment opportunities have greatly expanded in Mexico. Per capita gross domestic product and family income have each jumped more than 45 percent since 2000, according to one prominent economist, Roberto Newell. Despite all the depictions of Mexico as ''nearly a failed state,'' he argued, ''the conventional wisdom is wrong.''
A significant expansion of legal immigration -- aided by American consular officials -- is also under way. Congress may be debating immigration reform, but in Mexico, visas without a Congressionally mandated cap on how many people can enter have increased from 2006 to 2010, compared with the previous five years.
State Department figures show that Mexicans who have become American citizens have legally brought in 64 percent more immediate relatives, 220,500 from 2006 through 2010, compared with the figures for the previous five years. Tourist visas are also being granted at higher rates of around 89 percent, up from 67 percent, while American farmers have legally hired 75 percent more temporary workers since 2006.
Edward McKeon, the top American official for consular affairs in Mexico, said he had focused on making legal passage to the United States easier in an effort to prevent people from giving up and going illegally. He has even helped those who were previously illegal overcome bans on entering the United States.
''If people are trying to do the right thing,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''we need to send the signal that we'll reward them.''
Hard Years in Jalisco
When Angel Orozco's grandfather considered leaving Mexico in the 1920s, his family said, he wrestled with one elemental question: Will it be worth it?
At that point and for decades to come, yes was the obvious answer. In the 1920s and '30s -- when Paul S. Taylor came to Jalisco from California for his landmark study of Mexican emigration -- Mexico's central highlands promised little more than hard living. Jobs were scarce and paid poorly. Barely one of three adults could read. Families of 10, 12 and even 20 were common, and most children did not attend school.
Comparatively, the United States looked like a dreamland of technology and riches: Mr. Taylor found that the wages paid by the railroads, where most early migrants found legal work, were five times what could be earned on farms in Arandas, the municipality that includes Agua Negra.
Orozco family members still talk about the benefits of that first trip. Part of the land the extended family occupies today was purchased with American earnings from the 1920s. When Angel's father, Antonio, went north to pick cotton in the 1950s and '60s with the Bracero temporary worker program, which accepted more than 400,000 laborers a year at its peak, working in the United States made even more sense. The difference in wages had reached 10 to 1. Arandas was still dirt poor.
Antonio, with just a few years of schooling, was one of many who felt that with a back as strong as a wooden church door, he could best serve his family from across the border.
''I sent my father money so he could build his house,'' Antonio said.
Legal status then meant little. After the Bracero program ended in 1964, Antonio said, he crossed back and forth several times without documentation. Passage was cheap. Work lasting for a few months or a year was always plentiful. So when his seven sons started to become adults in the 1990s, he encouraged them to go north. Around 2001, he and two of his sons were all in the United States working -- part of what is now recognized as one of the largest immigration waves in American history.
But even then, illegal immigration was becoming less attractive. In the mid-1990s, the Clinton administration added fences and federal agents to what were then the main crossing corridors beyond Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez. The enforcement push, continued by President George W. Bush and President Obama, helped drive up smuggling prices from around $700 in the late 1980s to nearly $2,000 a decade later, and the costs continued to climb, according to research from the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego. It also shifted traffic to more dangerous desert areas near Arizona.
Antonio said the risks hit home when his nephew Alejandro disappeared in the Sonoran Desert around 2002. A father of one and with a pregnant wife, Alejandro had been promised work by a friend. It took years for the authorities to find his body in the arid brush south of Tucson. Even now, no one knows how he died.
But for the Orozcos, border enforcement was not the major deterrent. Andres Orozco, 28, a middle son who first crossed illegally in 2000, said that while rising smuggling costs and border crime were worries, there were always ways to avoid border agents. In fact, while the likelihood of apprehension has increased in recent years, 92 to 98 percent of those who try to cross eventually succeed, according to Wayne A. Cornelius and his colleagues at the University of California, San Diego.
A Period of Progress
Another important factor is Mexico itself. Over the past 15 years, this country once defined by poverty and beaches has progressed politically and economically in ways rarely acknowledged by Americans debating immigration. Even far from the coasts or the manufacturing sector at the border, democracy is better established, incomes have generally risen and poverty has declined.
Here in Jalisco, a tequila boom that accelerated through the 1990s created new jobs for farmers cutting agave and for engineers at the stills. Other businesses followed. In 2003, when David Fitzgerald, a migration expert at the University of California, San Diego, came to Arandas, he found that the wage disparity with the United States had narrowed: migrants in the north were collecting 3.7 times what they could earn at home.
That gap has recently shrunk again. The recession cut into immigrant earnings in the United States, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, even as wages have risen in Mexico, according to World Bank figures. Jalisco's quality of life has improved in other ways, too. About a decade ago, the cluster of the Orozco ranches on Agua Negra's outskirts received electricity and running water. New census data shows a broad expansion of such services: water and trash collection, once unheard of outside cities, are now available to more than 90 percent of Jalisco's homes. Dirt floors can now be found in only 3 percent of the state's houses, down from 12 percent in 1990.
Still, education represents the most meaningful change. The census shows that throughout Jalisco, the number of senior high schools or preparatory schools for students aged 15 to 18 increased to 724 in 2009, from 360 in 2000, far outpacing population growth. The Technological Institute of Arandas, where Angel studies engineering, is now one of 13 science campuses created in Jalisco since 2000 -- a major reason professionals in the state, with a bachelor's degree or higher, also more than doubled to 821,983 in 2010, up from 405,415 in 2000.
Similar changes have occurred elsewhere. In the poor southern states of Chiapas and Oaxaca, for instance, professional degree holders rose to 525,874 from 244,322 in 2000.
And the data from secondary schools like the one the Orozcos attended in Agua Negra suggests that the trend will continue. Thanks to a Mexican government program called ''schools of quality'' the campus of three buildings painted sunflower yellow has five new computers for its 71 students, along with new books.
Teachers here, in classrooms surrounded by blue agave fields, say that enrollment is down slightly because families are having fewer children, and instead of sending workers north, some families have moved to other Mexican cities -- a trend also found in academic field research. Around half the students now move on to higher schooling, up from 30 percent a decade ago.
''They're identifying more with Mexico,'' said Agustin Martinez Gonzalez, a teacher. ''With more education, they're more likely to accept reality here and try to make it better.''
Some experts agree. Though Mexicans with Ph.D.'s tend to leave for bigger paychecks abroad, ''if you have a college degree you're much more likely to stay in Mexico because that is surely more valuable in Mexico,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.
If these trends -- particularly Mexican economic growth -- continue over the next decade, Mr. Passel said, changes in the migration dynamic may become even clearer. ''At the point where the U.S. needs the workers again,'' he said, ''there will be fewer of them.''
The United States, of course, has not lost its magnetic appeal. Illegal traffic from Central America has not dropped as fast as it has from Mexico, and even in Jalisco town plazas are now hangouts for men in their 30s with tattoos, oversize baseball caps and a desire to work again in California or another state. Bars with American names -- several have adopted Shrek -- signal a back and forth that may never disappear.
But more Mexicans are now traveling legally. Several Orozco cousins have received temporary worker visas in the past few years. In March, peak migration season for Jalisco, there were 15 people from Agua Negra at the border waiting to cross.
''And 10 had visas,'' said Ramon Orozco, 30, another son of Antonio who works in the town's government office after being the first in his family to go to college. ''A few years ago there would have been 100, barely any with proper documents.''
This is not unique to Agua Negra. A few towns away at the hillside shrine of St. Toribio, the patron saint of migrants, prayers no longer focus on asking God to help sons, husbands or brothers crossing the desert. ''Now people are praying for papers,'' said Maria Guadalupe, 47, a longtime volunteer.
How did this happen?
Partly, emigrants say, illegal life in the United States became harder. Laws restricting the rights of illegal immigrants or making it tougher for employers to hire them have passed in more than a dozen states since 2006. The same word-of-mouth networks that used to draw people north are now advising against the journey. ''Without papers all you're thinking about is, when are the police going to stop you or what other risks are you going to face,'' said Andres Orozco.
Andres, a horse lover who drives a teal pickup from Texas, is one of many Orozcos now pinning their hopes on a visa. And for the first time in years, the chances have improved.
Mexican government estimates based on survey data show not just a decrease in migration overall, but also an increase in border crossings with documents. In 2009, the most recent year for which data is available, 38 percent of the total attempted crossings, legal and illegal, were made with documents. In 2007, only 20 percent involved such paperwork.
The Mexican data counts attempted crossings, not people, and does not differentiate between categories of visas. Nor does it mention how long people stayed, nor whether all the documents were valid.
Advocates of limited immigration worry that the issuing of more visas creates a loophole that can be abused. Between 40 and 50 percent of the illegal immigrants in the United States entered legally with visas they overstayed, as of 2005, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.
More recent American population data, however, shows no overall increase in the illegal Mexican population. That suggests that most of the temporary visas issued to Mexicans -- 1.1 million in 2010 -- are being used legitimately even as American statistics show clearly that visa opportunities have increased.
Easing a Chaotic Process
One man, Mr. McKeon, the minister counselor who oversees all consular affairs in Mexico, has played a significant role in that expansion.
A lawyer with a white beard and a quick tongue, Mr. McKeon arrived in the summer of 2007. And after more than 30 years working in consular affairs in China, Japan and elsewhere, he quickly decided to make changes in Mexico. Working within administrative rules, State Department officials say, he re-engineered the visa program to de-emphasize the affordability standard that held that visas were to be denied to those who could not prove an income large enough to support travel to the United States.
In a country where a person can cross the border with a 25-cent toll, Mr. McKeon said, the income question was irrelevant. ''You have to look at everyone individually,'' he said in an interview at his office in Mexico City. ''I don't want people to say, here's the income floor, over yes, lower no.''
This led to an almost immediate decrease in the rejection rate for tourist visas. Before he arrived, around 32 percent were turned down. Since 2008, the rate has been around 11 percent.
Mr. McKeon -- praised by some immigration lawyers for bringing consistency to a chaotic process -- was also instrumental in expanding the temporary visa program for agricultural workers. Called H-2A, this is one of the few visa categories without a cap.
Around 2006, as the debate over immigration became more contentious, employers concentrated in the Southeast began applying for more workers through the program. Mr. McKeon began hosting conferences with all the stakeholders and deployed new technology and additional staff members. The waiting time for several visa categories decreased, government reports show. For H-2As, Mexican workers can now receive their documents the same day that they apply.
Mr. McKeon also pushed to make the program more attractive to Mexicans who might otherwise cross the border illegally. Two years ago, he eliminated a $100 visa issuance fee that was supposed to be covered by employers but was usually paid by workers. And he insisted that his staff members change their approach with Mexicans who had previously worked illegally in the United States.
''The message used to be, if you were working illegally, lie about it or don't even try to go legally because we won't let you,'' said one senior State Department official. ''What we're saying now is, tell us you did it illegally, be honest and we'll help you.''
Specifically, consulate workers dealing with H-2A applicants who were once illegal -- making them subject to 3- or 10-year bans depending on the length of their illegal stay -- now regularly file electronic waiver applications to the United States Customs and Border Patrol. About 85 percent of these are now approved, Mr. McKeon said, so that in 2010 most of the 52,317 Mexican workers with H-2A visas had previously been in the United States illegally.
''It's not easy to go through this process,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''and I think people who are willing to go through all of that and risk going back to the United States where they have to pay taxes, and withholding, I think we should look favorably on them.''
Speaking as the son of a New Jersey plumber, he added: ''My bias is toward people who sweat at work because I really think that's the backbone of our country. With limited resources, I'd rather devote our efforts to keeping out a drug kingpin than trying to find someone who works a couple of months at Cousin Hector's body shop.''
A Divisive Topic
In the heated debate over immigration, however, this topic is inevitably divisive. Pro-immigrant groups, when told of the expansion to legal immigration, say it still may not be enough in a country where the baby boomers are retiring in droves.
Farmers still complain that the H-2A visa program is too complicated and addresses only a portion of the total demand. As of 2010, there were 1,381,896 Mexicans still waiting for their green-card applications to be accepted or rejected. And the United States currently makes only 5,000 green cards annually available worldwide for low-wage workers to immigrate permanently; in recent years, only a few of those have gone to Mexicans.
On the other side, Steven A. Camarota, a demographer at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, which favors reduced immigration, said that increasing the proportion of legal entries did little good.
''If you believe there is significant job competition at the bottom end of the labor market, as I do, you're not fixing the problem,'' Mr. Camarota said. ''If you are concerned about the fiscal cost of unskilled immigration and everyone comes in on temporary visas and overstays, or even if they don't, the same problems are likely to apply.''
By his calculations, unskilled immigrants like the Orozcos have, over the years, helped push down hourly wages, especially for young, unskilled American workers. Immigrants are also more likely to rely on welfare, he said, adding to public costs.
The Orozco clan, however, may point to a different future. Angel Orozco, like many other young Mexicans, now talks about the United States not as a place to earn money, but rather as a destination for fun and spending.
Today he is just a shy freshman wearing a Daughtry T-shirt and living in a two-room apartment with only a Mexican flag and a rosary for decoration.
But his dreams are big and local. After graduating, he said, he hopes to work for a manufacturing company in Arandas, which seems likely because the director of his school says that nearly 90 percent of graduates find jobs in their field. Then, Angel said, he will be able to buy what he really wants: a shiny, new red Camaro.
Immigration Upended: Articles in this series will explore the changing patterns of immigration between the United States and Mexico.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DIFFERENT PATH: Although his father and brothers crossed the border for work, Angel Orozco plans to stay in Mexico.
AN OLD RITE OF PASSAGE: Antonio Orozco, center, with two of his sons, Andres, left, and Samuel, supported his family for decades with jobs he found across the border in the United States despite lacking the proper documents. (A8)
JOBS AT HOME: In the state of Jalisco and nearby, jobs for farmers cutting agave and other kinds of work began to increase wages in Mexico in the 1990s, making illegal immigration less attractive.
A SIGN OF PROGRESS: Young Mexicans in Agua Negra have new educational opportunities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) CHARTS: A Decline in Illegal Immigration From Mexico: Most experts agree that far fewer illegal immigrants have been arriving from Mexico in recent years. Economic, demographic and social changes in Mexico point to a new cost-benefit analysis for those who may have risked crossing illegally in the past, with many now choosing to stay home instead. (Sources: Mexican Migration Project, Princeton University (illegal migration estimate)
INEGI (fertility rate)
U.S. State Department (number of visas)
Mexican Migration Project, Princeton University (cost of a trip across the border)) (A8)
 MAPS: In recent years, the quality of life has improved in places like Agua Negra. (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); FAMILY (76%); ENGINEERING (72%); CENSUS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



184 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Says Chinese Limits on Raw Material Exports Break Global Trade Rules

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- In a dispute that highlights growing tension between China and its Western trading partners, the World Trade Organization ruled Tuesday that Beijing violated global rules by restricting exports of nine raw materials used in the manufacturing of high technology products.
The case, lodged by the United States, the European Union and Mexico, dates from 2009 and underlines the anxiety in the West about the way China is consolidating its trading dominance. 
Significantly, the ruling strengthens other European arguments against Chinese restrictions on another category of exports -- rare earths, 17 minerals also used in the high-tech industry. However the case also demonstrates how dependent technology industries have become on some exports from China.
The W.T.O. panel rejected China's argument that its restrictions were motivated by a desire to protect the environment and prevent a critical shortage of the materials.
The decision on Tuesday concluded that Chinese quotas, export duties and license requirements put in place a discriminatory system for the sale overseas of industrial raw materials widely used in the steel, aluminum and chemicals industries, including coke, zinc and bauxite.
''This is a clear verdict for open trade and fair access to raw material,'' Karel De Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said in a statement. '' Furthermore, in the light of this result, China should ensure free and fair access to rare earth supplies,'' he added.
The E.U. quota of Chinese raw earth elements declined to 30,000 tons in 2010 from around 50,000 tons in 2009, according to an E.U. official who was not authorized to speak publicly.
The U.S. trade representative, Ron Kirk, called the W.T.O. decision on the raw materials ''a significant victory for manufacturers and workers in the United States and the rest of the world.''
''China's extensive use of export restraints for protectionist economic gain is deeply troubling,'' Mr. Kirk added in a statement. ''China's policies provide substantial competitive advantages for downstream Chinese industries at the expense of non-Chinese users of these materials. They have also caused massive distortions and harmful disruptions in supply chains throughout the global marketplace''
Americans and Europeans had challenged China's environmental protection argument by pointing out that the raw material consumption was not being controlled domestically.
China must now either appeal the ruling or comply with it. If it fails to do so the United States, Europe and Mexico could eventually be allowed to respond with equivalent trade sanctions.
In a statement issued by its mission to the W.T.O. in Geneva, China said ''that although these measures have certain impact on domestic and international users, they are in line with the objective of sustainable development promoted by the W.T.O. and they help to induce the resource industry toward healthy development.''
The nine raw materials covered by the ruling on Tuesday are used in medicines, CDs, electronics, the automotive industry, ceramics, refrigerators and batteries among other products.
Of all the E.U. imports of some categories of magnesium, 95 percent are sourced in China, as is 91 percent of imports of some categories of manganese while almost 30 percent of E.U. phosphorous imports are Chinese.
European officials say the export restrictions increased the global price for the raw materials, and gave Chinese companies a clear commercial advantage which, in effect, constitutes a hidden subsidy. They also made it harder for non-Chinese companies to source the raw materials by making them less readily available on the global market.
The impact can be to increase the price of some products by as much as 100 percent, according to E.U. officials.
The ruling was welcomed by BusinessEurope, the lobbying group. ''The W.T.O. panel decision clearly stipulates that almost all export duties and restrictions imposed by China are incompatible with W.T.O. rules,'' it said in a statement. ''If confirmed, this decision will require China to remove all unjustified restrictive measures on raw materials.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coking factory in Shanxi province. The World Trade Organization said China's export quotas unfairly favored its own industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); APPEALS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); CHEMICALS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



185 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Law Firms Court Rivals' Rainmakers

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
The job of unwinding Bernard L. Madoff's huge fraud and recovering money for its victims has been lucrative, reaping hundreds of millions of dollars in legal fees. Late last year, a New Jersey law firm tried to poach the legal team handling that assignment.
It was an audacious move that would have transformed the New Jersey firm, Greenbaum Rowe Smith & Davis, giving it a powerful presence in New York and the enormous stream of legal fees being generated by the Madoff litigation.
Irving H. Picard, the court-appointed Madoff trustee, and his chief counsel, David Sheehan, carefully considered leaving their firm, Baker Hostetler, but decided to stay after additional resources were committed to their group.
Though the deal never materialized, the dalliance highlights the intense demand at corporate law firms for lawyers with large, established books of business. While lateral hiring is nothing new, some of the country's biggest law firms are recruiting top producers more aggressively than ever and offering record pay packages with multiyear guarantees, legal industry specialists say. 
''We have entered the era of the superstar megarainmaker,'' said Peter Zeughauser of the Zeughauser Group, a law firm consultancy.
This year, DLA Piper, a giant law firm at the forefront of this trend, hired James D. Wareham, a litigator in Washington who represents big corporations including Capital One and Chevron. DLA Piper is paying him more than $5 million a year, a substantial increase from his salary at his former firm, Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker.
Last month, O'Melveny & Myers lost nine corporate partners that have Apollo Global Management, the large private equity firm, as a prized client. Seven of them left for Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison; two went to Weil Gotshal & Manges.
Latham & Watkins recently picked off seven partners from three competitors, including Proskauer Rose and WilmerHale, to establish an office in Boston, an important location for profitable legal work in the technology and life sciences industries.
The competition for top legal talent has caused the spread between the highest-paid partners and other partners at law firms to widen in recent years. The average partner at a United States firm earns $640,000 a year, according to a recent compensation study by Major, Lindsey & Africa, a legal recruiting firm. Top producers at some of the biggest firms are paid as much as 10 times what an average partner at their firm earns, roughly double the gap of a decade ago, legal industry consultants say.
A number of factors are driving ever-higher compensation for top producers. A persistently weak economy continues to put pressure on the revenues of these firms, making them desperate to capture business that can generate big fees. Large corporations also continue to reduce the number of outside law firms they use, a trend that has forced firms to pay up for teams of lawyers in important practice areas where they lack a specialty.
Some corporate law firms, like Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and Cravath Swaine & Moore, eschew the star system and maintain a more traditional partnership culture with compensation in a more narrow range. Still, the free-agent market for rainmakers has altered the corporate law landscape.
''We're increasingly seeing big firms pay up for large teams of lawyers built around a rainmaker, or a big client, or a complex case,'' said Jeffrey A. Lowe, a managing partner at Major, Lindsey & Africa. ''You could certainly see the appeal that the Madoff trustee and his team of lawyers would have to another firm.''
The Madoff trustee litigation has been a boon for Baker Hostetler, a 740-lawyer Cleveland-based firm. Mr. Picard and his team have filed more than a thousand lawsuits seeking to recover money for victims who sustained losses in the fraud. Among the defendants are more than a dozen banks, including JPMorgan Chase, and wealthy investors like the Wilpon family, which owns the New York Mets. In some lawsuits, Mr. Picard is seeking to recover cash withdrawn from the Ponzi scheme before its collapse; in others, he has asked for damages from defendants who he says knew or should have known about the fraud.
So far, Mr. Picard has recovered about $10 billion in settlements and asset sales, far more than what legal specialists had expected.
It has been a hugely profitable assignment, having brought in about $180 million in legal fees for Baker Hostetler. The firm is expected to receive roughly $603 million more for its work from 2011 to 2014, according to correspondence from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, a private nonprofit entity backed by broker-dealers, which pays Baker Hostetler's fees.
Mr. Picard, as trustee, has been paid $4.3 million through January, according to court records. He stands to make an additional $12.5 million over the next three years, the SIPC letter said.
The financial arrangement that Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan have with Baker Hostetler is unclear.
The Madoff case was a major driver in increasing revenue at Baker Hostetler by 17 percent last year, the third-largest increase among the country's 100 largest law firms, according to The American Lawyer magazine. Since receiving the assignment, Baker Hostetler's New York office, where Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan are based, has doubled to about 150 lawyers.
Though the Madoff litigation has brought many dollars and much prominence to Baker Hostetler, not every lawyer at the firm is thrilled.
A number of Baker Hostetler lawyers have complained that too many resources are being devoted to the Madoff case at the expense of the rest of the firm's practice groups.
''We're now the Madoff firm, just go to our Web site and take a look,'' said a lawyer at Baker Hostetler who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. ''All you'll see is Madoff, Madoff, Madoff.''
(While the firm trumpets the Madoff work on its Web site, the site contains smaller reports on other assignments.)
Another concern is a conflict-of-interest issue: Baker Hostetler would not represent many large banks and wealthy families because they were defendants in Madoff lawsuits. This would also make it a challenge for the Madoff team to join another large national firm with clients, or prospective clients, that have been sued by the trustee.
Last year Mr. Sheehan began discussing the possibility of leaving Baker Hostetler with Paul Rowe, the chairman of Greenbaum Rowe. It would have been a good fit. Joining Greenbaum Rowe would allow the Madoff team to operate on its own from New York with the backing of a 100-lawyer firm based in Iselin, N.J., best known for its litigation practices.
Mr. Rowe declined to comment.
Talks advanced far enough along that Greenbaum Rowe had secured two floors of empty space at 666 Fifth Avenue. But after discussions with Baker Hostetler management, Mr. Picard and Mr. Sheehan stayed put.
People briefed on the decision say that the firm did not increase their compensation, but instead devoted more resources to the Madoff litigation.
''The trustee and his counsel are committed to Baker Hostetler and look forward to the continued success that the firm's legal team has achieved on the Madoff matter,'' a spokesman for the firm said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Irving H. Picard, left, the Madoff trustee, and David Sheehan pondered leaving Baker Hostetler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. B. REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (92%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW FIRM BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); TRENDS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

COMPANY: O'MELVENY & MYERS LLP (91%); PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (91%); DLA PIPER LLP (91%); BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (90%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (90%); LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (84%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (84%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

TICKER: APO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



186 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: China Admits Extent of Spill From Oil Rig

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Shi Da contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Oil that spewed from an offshore drilling rig in northeastern China for two weeks last month has spread over 320 square miles, government officials acknowledged Tuesday, amid public uproar over why it took so long for fishermen, local residents and environmental groups to be informed of the spill.
News of the accident emerged in late June on the microblogging site Sina Weibo and was not confirmed by the state-owned operator until last Friday. The government sought to play down the significance of the leak, saying the environmental repercussions were most likely insignificant and blaming the rig's Western operator. 
''There is no visible floating oil on the sea and the leak is now under control,'' said a spokesman for the State Oceanic Administration, according to a transcript of a news conference posted on its Web site, although another official acknowledged that a small slick could be seen from the two platforms involved in the accident.
Officials at the agency said ConocoPhillips China, a subsidiary of the Houston-based energy giant that operates the rigs with a Chinese state-owned company, ''should take the blame'' for the accident, which occurred in the mouth of the Bohai Sea, a largely enclosed body of water that touches on three provinces and the city of Tianjin.
Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday, an official at the oceanic agency's Beihai branch, said the minimum fine would be about $30,000, a figure that could rise depending on the extent of the economic and ecological damage.
In an emailed statement on Wednesday, ConocoPhillips China said its workers quickly addressed the leaks and that there was no apparent impact on wildlife, fishing or shipping activities.''Upon observing the sheen, ConocoPhillips took prompt action, promptly reporting the incident to Chinese authorities and activating response procedures,'' the statement said.
The company owns a 49 percent stake in the venture, Penglai 19-3, which is the country's largest offshore oil discovery, reportedly producing 150,000 barrels a day. It operates the rig with China's National Offshore Oil Corporation.
In recent days, several Chinese media outlets have reported die-offs among fish farmed in ocean enclosures, but such accounts could not be verified Tuesday.
According to the oceanic agency's Web site, a leak was first detected June 4 and then again on June 17. It said the spills occurred during the drilling process, when water is forced into the earth's crust. By June 19, the problem was under control, the agency said, and by Monday, 40 cubic meters of oily water had been removed from the sea.
Yang Fuqiang, a senior adviser on climate and energy at the Beijing offices of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group based in the United States, said that even if the environmental damage turned out to be minimal, the long delay in publicizing the accident erodes public trust in the government and its state-run energy companies. ''According to the regulations, any oil spill has to be reported to the public,'' he said. ''People who live in coastal areas have a right to know so they can make preparations.''
In a commentary published in The Global Times on Tuesday, Han Xiaoping, a columnist for the Web site China Energy Network, accused the state-run oil company of evasion and the government of playing a role in a cover-up. ''We do everything to protect state-owned enterprises, which eventually leads them to think they can always get support from the government when they get into trouble,'' he wrote.
The case comes nearly a year after a major oil spill near Dalian, not far from the Bohai Sea, that also raised questions about whether the government was giving an honest accounting -- and whether there was lasting impact on aquatic life.
In that spill, an explosion ruptured a pipeline at an onshore oil storage site run by the state-owned China National Petroleum Corporation, forcing emergency workers to empty the contents of an enormous oil tank. More than 11,000 barrels of oil flowed into the Yellow Sea, the government said, fouling miles of beaches and a large stretch of ocean. Environmental groups like Greenpeace, however, say the figure was much larger.

GRAPHIC: MAP: The spill happened at China's largest offshore oil site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); WEB SITES (76%); WILDLIFE (74%); OCEANS (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (95%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (95%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); GUANGXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



187 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Big Business Leaves Deficit To Politicians

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
If you want to understand why cutting the deficit is so hard, you can't do much better than to look at the Business Roundtable.
The roundtable is one of the more moderate big-business lobbying groups. Its president is John Engler, the former Michigan governor, and its incoming chairman is James McNerney, the chief executive of Boeing. When roundtable officials talk about the deficit, they use sober, common-sense language that can make them sound more reasonable than either political party.
But the roundtable is actually part of the problem. 
Rhetoric aside, it consistently lobbies for a higher deficit. The roundtable defends corporate tax loopholes and even argues for new ones. It pushes for a lower corporate tax rate. It favors the permanent extension of the Bush tax cuts. It opposes a reduction in the tax subsidy for health insurance, a reduction that was part of the 2009 health reform bill. Oh, and the roundtable also favors new spending on roads, bridges and other infrastructure.
It's easy to look at the squabbling politicians in Washington and decide that they are the cause of the country's huge looming budget deficit. Certainly, they deserve some blame. The larger problem, though, is what you might call roundtable syndrome.
In short, there isn't much of a constituency for deficit reduction. Sure, plenty of people and special-interest groups say that they are deeply worried about the deficit. But they are not lobbying for specific spending cuts or tax increases. They aren't marshaling their resources to defend politicians who take tough stands, like President Obama's 2009 Medicare cuts or Rand Paul's proposed military cuts.
Instead, many of the officially nonpartisan groups in Washington are even less fiscally responsible than the partisans. Public sector labor unions have fought changes to pensions and work rules that could lead to less expensive, more effective government. Private sector unions -- along with the roundtable -- have defended the huge tax subsidy for health insurance, which drives up health costs.
Labor groups have at least been willing to push for some tax increases. Today's business groups struggle to come up with any specific deficit plan. Last year, the Business Council -- a group of top corporate executives headed by Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase -- and the roundtable released a 49-page plan that simultaneously warned that projected deficits would ''retard future growth'' and called for policies that would add hundreds of billions of dollars a year to the deficit. That's the essence of roundtable syndrome.
When I ask roundtable officials and other lobbyists about this contradiction, they show an impressive ability to avoid specifics and stick to their talking points. Mr. Engler, by e-mail, said, ''A simpler, flatter tax system can be enacted in a fiscally responsible manner that better serves American workers and supports economic growth.''
Taken by itself, this statement is entirely accurate. The corporate tax code is a mess. A better code, say both conservative and liberal economists, would be flatter -- that is, have a lower rate and fewer loopholes. Companies would then waste less time complying with the code and could still help reduce the deficit.
But the roundtable is not pushing for the simpler, flatter, fiscally responsible code that Mr. Engler mentions. It's pushing for tax cuts for its members: a lower rate, the continuation of existing loopholes and the creation of new ones, like a permanent credit for research and a tax holiday for overseas profits. Mr. Engler and his colleagues, in other words, are lobbying for a more complex, less fiscally responsible tax code.
Given how much we're going to talk about the deficit, I'd suggest requiring any self-proclaimed fiscal conservative to give specifics. You're against the deficit? Great. How do you want to cut it?
The fact is, naming specific ways to reduce the deficit is no more technically challenging than naming new spending programs or tax cuts. To take the current debt ceiling negotiations as a benchmark, White House officials and Congressional leaders are looking for about $200 billion a year in deficit reduction. They could get it any number of ways.
Two different bipartisan groups -- the Bowles-Simpson deficit commission and the Sustainable Defense Task Force -- have called for roughly $100 billion a year in cuts to the military budget. Getting rid of farm subsidies would save about $15 billion. So would cutting the federal work force by 10 percent.
Allowing the expiration of the Bush tax cuts on income above $250,000 a year would raise about $60 billion a year. The expiration of all the other Bush tax cuts would bring in another $200 billion or so. Various changes to Medicare and Social Security -- raising the retirement age, reducing benefits for the affluent, cutting back on some forms of health care -- could cut spending even more. In the long term, with projected deficits well above $1 trillion a year, such changes will surely be necessary.
By the standard of specificity, a few of the most prominent politicians in the deficit debate end up looking more serious than many outside groups. Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who heads the House Budget Committee, has called for the effective elimination of Medicare for everyone under 55 years old. Mr. Obama favors some Medicare cuts, the closing of several modest tax loopholes and tax increases on the affluent.
There are many potential objections to the Obama plan and to the Ryan plan. And neither would eliminate the deficit. But both plans would at least reduce it, which is more than you can say about corporate America's deficit plan.
The deficit is one of those national challenges that will require tough choices and courageous leadership. Many of those choices and much of that leadership will have to come from politicians. But I'm guessing we won't solve the deficit until the politicians get some help -- and simply calling yourself a fiscal conservative doesn't count as help.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Engler, president of the Business Roundtable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED PROUSER/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MEDICARE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (62%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (62%); JPM (LSE) (62%); 8634 (TSE) (62%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JAMES DIMON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011



188 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AFGHANISTAN PARLIAMENT WEIGHS IMPEACHING KARZAI
Members of the Afghan Parliament came to blows as a majority for the first time began to discuss impeaching President Hamid Karzai, signaling the near-total breakdown of relations between the Parliament and the president as the country teeters on the brink of a constitutional crisis. PAGE A4
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS ACQUITTED 
An Egyptian criminal court acquitted three former Mubarak-era ministers of corruption while convicting a fourth in absentia. The verdicts are likely to further inflame public anger over the pace of efforts to hold former officials accountable for killing more than 800 people during the country's revolution. PAGE A10
CHINA ADMITS OIL RIG SPILL
Oil that spewed from an offshore drilling rig in northeastern China for two weeks last month has spread over 320 square miles, government officials acknowledged amid public uproar over why it took so long for fishermen, local residents and environmental groups to be informed of the spill. PAGE A4
DEADLY DOUBLE BLAST IN IRAQ
A truck that exploded at midday near a municipal building in Taji, north of Baghdad, served as a magnet to draw more people to the area for what proved to be a layered attack. A second, larger explosion struck as people rushed to help the injured. Nearly three dozen were killed, and many more wounded. Page A10
DUTCH LIABLE FOR 3 DEATHS
Appeals court judges ruled in a civil suit that the Netherlands is liable for the deaths of three Bosnian Muslim men who were killed during the Srebrenica massacre in 1995, and ordered the government to pay compensation to their families. Page A6
PAINTING REUNIFIED IN TAIPEI
China and Taiwan have been estranged for six decades, but the reunification of the painting ''Dwelling in the Fuchun Mountains,'' at the National Palace Museum in Taipei gives some people hope of a reconciliation between the two. Taipei Journal. PAGE A7
National
CHEATING ON TEST SCORES
FOUND IN ATLANTA SCHOOLS
A state investigation showed rampant, systematic cheating on test scores in Atlanta's long-troubled public schools, culminating two years of increasing skepticism over recent remarkable improvements touted by school leaders. PAGE A13
ROMNEY CLARIFIES RHETORIC
During his campaign swing through the crucial state of New Hampshire, the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has been faced with repeated questions about the consistency of his commentary on President Obama's handling of the recession and the subsequent economic recovery. Page A12
New York
CITY WORKERS' BIAS SUITS
RISE UNDER BLOOMBERG
The number of discrimination cases filed by city employees in New York has risen even as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has adopted a far less adversarial tone than his predecessor did in dealing with the city's work force. During Mr. Bloomberg's first two terms in office, the number of lawsuits by employees accusing the city of discrimination was 12 percent higher than during Rudolph W. Giuliani's two terms. PAGE A16
Business
PORTUGAL'S DEBT RATING
DOWNGRADED TO JUNK
Moody's Investors Service cut Portugal's debt rating to junk status, ratcheting up the pressure on euro zone governments to work out a lasting solution to their financial woes. Even though Portugal negotiated a $116 billion rescue package in May, the ratings agency cited the risk that the country would need a second bailout. PAGE B1
LAW FIRMS POACH TOP TALENT
In the competition for top legal talent, the intense demand for lawyers with large, established books of business has led corporate law firms to recruit them more aggressively and offer record pay packages, driving ever-higher compensation for top producers. Page B1
Sports
FOR SOME PET OWNERS,
JETER'S THE BEST IN SHOW
Over 16 seasons and nearly 3,000 hits, Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter has inspired many, including hundreds of dog owners who have named their pets after him. New York City alone is home to 33 dogs actively registered under the name Jeter, making his name the most popular on the Yankees' roster. PAGE B13
PICKING HOST OF 2018 GAMES
The host city for the 2018 Winter Games will be chosen by the International Olympic Committee among candidates from South Korea, Germany and France. Pyeongchang, South Korea, is considered by many to be a favorite over Munich and Annecy. PAGE B15
TOUGH TASK AHEAD FOR METS
The Mets hope the injured Jose Reyes can play against the Phillies in their first series after the All-Star break. They will face seven All-Star pitchers in a row, beginning with Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers, making the upcoming series of games critical. Page B13
Arts
PHISH'S ONE-BAND FESTIVAL,
BOTH CONCERT AND CARNIVAL
As live concerts come to supplant album sales as the linchpin of the pop music industry, there aren't many bands with as consistently fervent a touring audience as Phish. There may be no band in the world that goes to lengths as extravagant as Phish does to provide a multiday entertainment experience. Critic's Notebook, Seth Schiesel. PAGE C1
VOICE OF CUBA, IN BLOG FORM
Yoani Sanchez, a 35-year old mother from Havana, maintains a blog describing daily life in Cuba: a dreary, enervating routine of food shortages, transportation troubles and narrowed opportunity. Her blog is uncensored outside of her homeland and has been published as a book, but the dictatorship of Fidel and Raul Castro has from the start sought to silence her and prevent other Cubans from reading what she calls her ''little vignettes of reality.'' PAGE C1
Dining
IN HAWKING SEAFOOD,
HE REELED IN A SHOW
Ben Sargent, an avid urban fisherman and French Culinary Institute dropout, has followed an unconventional route to his new Cooking Channel show about seafood. The native New Englander has sold an array of chowders in Brooklyn, regularly fished in the East River, and, most recently, hawked samizdat lobster rolls out of his apartment. PAGE D1
A SECRET POP-UP PICNIC
Guests who attend the impromptu Diner en Blanc come dressed all in white with their own tables and food. This event, popular in Paris, is now coming to New York. Page D1
OP-ED
Maureen Dowd PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); DISCRIMINATION (86%); SCHOOL CHEATING (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); GENOCIDE (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); VERDICTS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); OIL SPILLS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MAYORS (72%); JUDGES (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (62%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (71%) EGYPT (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



189 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Chief Stands Firm as Tough Rules Loom

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the next weeks and months, Lisa P. Jackson, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, is scheduled to establish regulations on smog, mercury, carbon dioxide, mining waste and vehicle emissions that will affect every corner of the economy.
She is working under intense pressure from opponents in Congress, from powerful industries, from impatient environmentalists and from the Supreme Court, which just affirmed the agency's duty to address global warming emissions, a project that carries profound economic implications.
The new rules will roll out just as President Obama's re-election campaign is getting under way, with a White House highly sensitive to the probability of political damage from a flood of government mandates that will strike particularly hard at the manufacturing sector in states crucial to the 2012 election.
No other cabinet officer is in as lonely or uncomfortable a position as Ms. Jackson, who has been left, as one adviser put it, behind enemy lines with only science, the law and a small band of loyal lieutenants to support her. 
Ms. Jackson describes the job as draining but says there are certain principles she will not compromise, including rapid and vigorous enforcement of some of the most far-reaching health-related rules ever considered by the agency.
''The only thing worse than no E.P.A. is an E.P.A. that exists and doesn't do its job -- it becomes just a placebo,'' she said last week in an hourlong interview in Houston. ''We are doing our job.''
Although she has not met with the president privately since February, Ms. Jackson said she was confident that he would back her on the tough decisions she had to make. ''All of us are mindful that he has a lot of things to do,'' she said.
Attacks on her and her agency have become a central part of the Republican playbook, but she said she wanted no sympathy.
''Any E.P.A. director sits at the intersection of some very important issues -- air pollution, clean water, and whether businesses can survive,'' said Ms. Jackson, a chemical engineer trained at Tulane and Princeton Universities and a former director of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. ''No one knows this job unless they've sat in the seat.''
Ms. Jackson said she intended to go forward with new, tougher air- and water-quality rules, including those that address climate change, despite Congressional efforts to override her authority and even a White House initiative to weed out overly burdensome regulations.
The first of these new rules is expected to be announced Thursday, imposing tighter restrictions on soot and smog emissions from coal-burning power plants in 31 states east of the Rockies. The regulation is expected to lead to the closing of several older plants and will require the installation of scrubbers at many of those that remain in operation. One former E.P.A. administrator, William K. Reilly, who served under the first President George Bush, is a sometime adviser to Ms. Jackson. He said she was taking fire from all sides.
''She's got three very large challenges,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''First, she's got to administer the Clean Air Act to try to accomplish something for which it was never designed, the control of carbon dioxide, a difficult regulatory challenge in itself. Second, she has to do that and cope with all these other regulations which are not of her making and have come to land on her desk in a climate of intense political polarization and economic distress.''
''And the third challenge,'' he continued, ''is that the White House -- any White House -- doesn't want to hear an awful lot from the E.P.A. It's not an agency that ever makes friends for a president. In the cabinet room, many of the secretaries got along with each other, but they all had an argument with me. It's the nature of the job.''
Mr. Reilly said the White House had left Ms. Jackson out on a limb when it failed to push hard for the cap-and-tradeclimate change bill that passed the House in 2009 but stalled in the Senate last year. Administration officials had argued that legislation was far superior to agency regulation as a means of addressing climate-altering emissions. But when the bill ran up against bipartisan opposition in the Senate, Mr. Reilly said, ''the White House didn't lift a finger,'' an assertion administration officials dispute.
The White House said that it fully supported the agency's aggressive standards for a variety of pollutants to protect public health and the environment and denied that it was resisting further regulatory action for political reasons.
''It's simply a matter of choosing the health and safety of the American people over polluters,'' Clark Stevens, a White House spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement, ''and doing so in a common-sense way that allows us to protect public health while also growing the economy -- which will continue to be a shared goal of this entire administration.''
One of Ms. Jackson's most vocal critics is Representative Edward Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky and chairman of the energy and power subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. He has held several hearings at which Ms. Jackson served as target practice for opponents of E.P.A. regulation of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. Ms. Jackson said that was the roughest treatment she had gotten in her two and a half years in Washington.
Mr. Whitfield, who has never met privately with Ms. Jackson, was unapologetic.
''It is unprecedented the number of major regulations this administration is putting out,'' he said, ''and I can't tell you how many calls and meetings and letters I have asking, 'Is there any way to slow E.P.A. down?' ''
''What's troubling to us,'' Mr. Whitfield continued, ''is that President Obama on the one hand is saying we have to be really careful about these regulations and consider the impact on jobs and the economy, but over at the agency they're just going full speed ahead with minimal attention or analysis on job impact.''
One hot spot where Ms. Jackson can count on friendly treatment is ''The Daily Show,'' where she has appeared three times in two years. Questioning from the host, Jon Stewart, was gentle, to say the least, referring in a recent show to the agency's ''unassailable successes'' in dealing with air and water pollution and to the ''tremendous corporate interests'' arrayed against her.
Even those most supportive of Ms. Jackson say that the agency has taken on a virtually unmanageable set of challenges across the range of policy, from mountaintop-removal coal mining to wetlands preservation to the control of toxic emissions from power plants and refineries. She is also in charge of federal restoration efforts in the Gulf of Mexico after the BP oil spill.
''Have they bitten off more than they can chew?'' asked Jason S. Grumet, president of the Bipartisan Policy Center, who has close ties to the White House and the agency. ''Yes. But that's a testament to their aspirations, and now reality is setting in.''
The reality being that there is often political fallout whenever tough policy decisions are made, and that the timing of Ms. Jackson's rule setting could not be more inopportune for Mr. Obama. ''It's always the case that there are conflicts between good policy and good politics, and the E.P.A. is often the crucible of those challenges,'' Mr. Grumet said.
One of the toughest pending decisions, he said, concerns a standard for permissible levels of smog-causing compounds including ozone. The agency's scientific advisory panel has recommended setting a high bar that could put hundreds of counties out of compliance with the law, forcing them to take action to reduce emissions, even though the pollutants may be generated beyond their jurisdiction.
The law requires that E.P.A. make such decisions based solely on the health effects of the pollution, not on the possible cost of compliance, creating a huge political problem.
''Telling a government that has to stand for re-election that it should make decisions with no consideration of cost is understandably going to create great agita in the political offices,'' Mr. Grumet said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lisa P. Jackson, the E.P.A. administrator, says she is confident of President Obama's support as she prepares to press for rigorous regulations against pollution just as the presidential campaign gets under way. The first new rules, on smog emissions, are expected to be announced Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SMOG (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MINES & MINING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CLOSINGS (69%); POWER PLANTS (61%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (54%)

PERSON: LISA P JACKSON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



190 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: City Workers' Bias Suits Rise, Despite Softer Bloomberg Tone

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and JO CRAVEN McGINTY

 BODY:
The number of discrimination cases filed by city employees in New York has risen even as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has adopted a far less adversarial tone than his predecessor did in dealing with the city's vast work force.
During Mr. Bloomberg's first two terms in office, the number of lawsuits by employees accusing the city of discrimination was 12 percent higher than the number during Rudolph W. Giuliani's two terms as mayor, according to government data furnished under Freedom of Information Law requests.
The legal claims came from employees in a wide range of departments and concerned a diverse array of alleged biases: in one six-week period from late 2008 to early 2009, the city paid $300,000 to settle a claim from a male police officer who alleged that his female supervisor had sexually harassed him; $225,000 to settle a sexual harassment claim from a secretary at the Department for the Aging; and a total of $316,500 in seven settlements for grievances stemming from demotions or alleging racial bias and age discrimination.
Critics of the Bloomberg administration say the heavy caseload and the settlement payouts raise questions about the city's efforts to tackle discrimination. 
''Some people may think that this is a surprise, given Bloomberg's reputation for presiding over a quote calmer city unquote,'' said Craig Gurian, a former counsel to the New York City Commission on Human Rights who is now executive director of the Anti-Discrimination Center of Metro New York.
''But there has always been a tremendous disparity between perception and reality,'' he added, ''and the reality is that this administration is just not serious about civil rights enforcement.''
But Michael A. Cardozo, who as the city's corporation counsel represents the Bloomberg administration in legal disputes, argued that the number of discrimination complaints was relatively small -- each year, about 100 of 280,000 New York City employees file lawsuits against city agencies alleging discrimination in the workplace.
He also noted that the municipal work force was larger than it was through most of Mr. Giuliani's tenure as mayor.
Mr. Cardozo suggested that the increase in discrimination claims reflected an ailing economy, as well as a growing willingness among employees to speak out and seek legal redress -- as encouraged by the administration -- without fear of retribution.
''Whether you're a warm and fuzzy mayor, or a less warm and fuzzy mayor, someone is always going to feel aggrieved,'' Mr. Cardozo said.
Yolanda Gonzalez, a veteran administrative aide for the Police Department, was one of the aggrieved.
Ms. Gonzalez filed a lawsuit in 2007 alleging that she had been sexually harassed by a co-worker from 2003 to 2005. She also alleged that after she filed an official complaint, her supervisors retaliated by giving her poor job evaluations and menial tasks. The city settled the case for $185,000 in 2008.
''It was never taken seriously, and I felt retaliation by management,'' Ms. Gonzalez, now 48, said in an interview.
Ms. Gonzalez, who is no longer employed by the city, said she had hoped that the workplace culture would improve under Mr. Bloomberg and his police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly.
But it is the person Ms. Gonzalez accused of harassment, and not Ms. Gonzalez, who remains employed by the city, according to personnel records. ''There's no closure,'' she said. ''This was all under Bloomberg's watch.''
The Bloomberg administration has dealt with many of the discrimination claims by paying settlements, rather than allowing cases to go to trial. From 2002 to 2009, the city settled over 400 employee discrimination cases, for more than $69 million.
That is more than double the amount of money paid out by the Giuliani administration, but two-thirds of the sum that the Bloomberg administration paid out was for two discrimination claims that originated during the Giuliani years.
Cases that began under Mr. Giuliani made up one-third of all cases settled during Mr. Bloomberg's first two terms, and there are five remaining cases alleging discrimination during the Giuliani administration. Given the pace of litigation, it seems certain that dozens of Bloomberg-era cases will remain unresolved when his third term ends in 2013 and will be left to his successor to resolve.
Despite the caseload, the city's Equal Employment Practices Commission, which conducts audits of city agencies to help identify potentially discriminatory practices and prevent lawsuits, has lost roughly half of its auditors under Mr. Bloomberg.
One member of that commission, Elaine S. Reiss, who had been appointed by Mr. Bloomberg, even made a rare appearance at a City Council budget hearing last year to warn that the reduction of auditors could lead to ''added lawsuits.''
Settlements of employee discrimination cases had become so commonplace that the comptroller's office, which must approve the payouts, began in 2006 to track such cases internally in preparing its annual summaries of cases and payouts. John C. Liu, who is now the city comptroller and is a frequent critic of the mayor, said the discrimination settlements reinforced concerns that he had long had about opportunities for women and for minority-owned businesses in the city, and about disparities in the unemployment rate for different racial groups.
''The discrimination claims should not be viewed in isolation, because it's all interconnected,'' Mr. Liu said. ''The evidence does suggest that the mayor has not helped the situation.''
Workplace discrimination has been an awkward issue for Mr. Bloomberg. The financial services firm he founded and led, Bloomberg L.P., has been battling a long-running lawsuit contending that Mr. Bloomberg and top managers created a hostile workplace for pregnant employees. Mr. Bloomberg testified for about eight hours over two days in 2009; the case is expected to go to trial next year.
As mayor, Mr. Bloomberg has said discrimination cannot be tolerated. In 2008, when the city settled a federal class-action lawsuit charging that the Department of Parks and Recreation had discriminated against black and Hispanic employees under Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''It was something that took place a long time ago, and I think we are satisfied that our procedures today in that department, and I think in all departments, do not discriminate against anybody.''
Mr. Bloomberg has often been credited by even his opponents for lowering the political temperature, especially when discussing the city's work force. Mr. Giuliani, for instance, infuriated labor unions for trying to contract out or privatize work done by city employees who were heavily nonwhite, like hospital workers, and suggesting that those workers were less efficient, a statement that many workers viewed as having a racial subtext.
But data furnished by the State Division of Human Rights showed that the number of employee discrimination complaints, which generally must precede lawsuits, was generally higher under Mr. Bloomberg than under Mr. Giuliani. The number of complaints peaked in 2007, at more than 330, roughly double what it was during each of the last three years of the Giuliani administration.
At the same time that complaints against the city have risen, many workplaces have reduced discrimination complaints by emphasizing training and enforcing equal-opportunity policies, legal experts say. Those initiatives were prompted, in part, by changes to the nation's employment discrimination laws in the early 1990s, which made it easier for workers to pursue claims of wrongdoing on the basis of race, age, gender and other issues.
Laura Beth Nielsen, a research professor at the American Bar Foundation, a nonpartisan research group, which has analyzed employment discrimination, said that New York City's statistics and trends seemed ''a little outside the pattern''; the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, to take but one example, has filed fewer lawsuits in federal district courts, nationwide, since 2004.
''If I were the mayor, and committed to the value of a discrimination-free workplace, I would want to take a random sample, and find out what happened,'' Ms. Nielsen said.
During the Bloomberg years, discrimination cases have taken an average of three months longer to resolve than under Mr. Giuliani, according to the data. The typical settlement amounts have dropped during the Bloomberg years, apparently because of efforts by both the courts and the administration to reduce costs associated with discrimination claims. The median amount for cases that were initiated and settled in Mr. Bloomberg's first two terms was a little more than $30,000, adjusted for inflation; during the Giuliani administration, that figure was nearly $53,000.
But when discrimination cases survive initial court proceedings, the Bloomberg administration has written bigger checks than the Giuliani administration did, in part because of an increase in the hourly rate for lawyers' fees paid by the city. Adjusted for inflation, the median payout during the first two Bloomberg terms was about $300,000, or roughly 50 percent more than under Mr. Giuliani, according to the data.
''That doesn't mean we just pay out like a cash register, because that just does not happen here,'' said Georgia Pestana, chief of the city Law Department's labor and employment law division.
The highest amount paid to a plaintiff in a case alleging discrimination during the Bloomberg years was $917,000, to settle allegations by female police detectives that they had been denied promotions because of their sex.
But with a backlog of some 300 cases, city lawyers are anticipating more sizable payouts, including some related to a Justice Department lawsuit alleging bias in the entrance exam for the Fire Department.
Among those who have benefited from the Bloomberg administration's propensity to pay settlements are Charles and Christopher Castro, brothers and former police officers who participated in a lawsuit filed in 1999 by the National Latino Officers Association of America alleging a hostile environment for minority officers, including disparate and more severe discipline, during the Giuliani years.
The suit was settled for $26.8 million in 2004. The brothers then applied for jobs at the Department of Sanitation but did not get hired, and sued again, alleging that they were rebuffed because of their involvement in the earlier case. They, too, expressed disappointment at what they described as a change in style, but not action, in City Hall.
''Under Giuliani, he was more outspoken, more brutal in his tactics,'' said Charles Castro, who won his second lawsuit last year. ''Bloomberg -- he's not outspoken, but it gets done the same way. I don't see much of a difference between the two administrations.''
Last month, Christopher Castro won his case as well. A jury awarded him $400,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles, left, and Christopher Castro, brothers in a lawsuit filed by minority police officers during the Giuliani years, have benefited from the Bloomberg administration's propensity to pay settlements in bias cases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Yolanda Gonzalez, a former administrative aide for the Police Department, alleged sexual harassment by a co-worker and received a city settlement of $185,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: There has been no letup in discrimination allegations by city employees under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. (Source: New York City Law Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCRIMINATION (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELDER LAW (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



191 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Romney Questioned on Critique of Economy Under Obama

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
HAMPTON, N.H. -- For much of this year, Mitt Romney has laid low, seeking to reap the benefits of being the presumed front-runner in the race for the Republican presidential nomination (strong fund-raising, positive polling) without suffering the downsides (intensive news media scrutiny, endless shelling from rivals).
But as Mr. Romney has finally started to campaign in earnest over the past couple of weeks, the dangers of his perceived leading status are coming into view, with a more intense focus on his every word. And in the past few days, it has revolved around three words in particular: ''things are worse.'' 
During his campaign swing through this crucial state this week, Mr. Romney has been faced with repeated questions about the consistency of his commentary on President Obama's handling of the recession and the subsequent economic recovery.
To recap: On Thursday, when asked by a journalist in Pennsylvania to jibe his assertions that ''things are worse'' under Mr. Obama with various signs of economic improvement since the president took office, Mr. Romney replied, ''I didn't say things are worse,'' adding, ''What I said was the economy hasn't turned around.'' Democrats accused him of ''flip-flopping'' on a central assertion of his candidacy.
Attending Fourth of July festivities in New Hampshire on Monday, Mr. Romney reasserted that ''the recession is deeper because of our president'' and that the recovery was more anemic because of him as well. (The recession was declared officially over as of June 2009, but the recovery, especially in employment, has been weak and inconsistent.)
At a town-hall-style meeting on Tuesday in his vacation town of Wolfeboro, N.H., Mr. Romney filled out his economic case against Mr. Obama, saying his early moves scared businesses out of spending money and hiring. He cited Mr. Obama's ultimately abandoned pursuit of cap-and-trade environmental legislation and financial sector regulatory changes as being among the culprits.
His latest formulation on Mr. Obama and the economy raised a new question from a reporter at a briefing at the Galley Hatch restaurant here, where he had met with friendly local officials and small-business owners to discuss their economic troubles. Given that Mr. Romney has used a present-tense formulation to say, for instance, ''the recession is deeper'' and the recovery slower because of Mr. Obama, the reporter asked, ''Is it your view that it's possible to be both in recession and recovery at the same time?''
''The technical term of the recession is not the one that I think the American people recognize,'' Mr. Romney said, defining that as ''a shrinking G.D.P.'' Rather, he said, ''I think most of the American people understand that we're still feeling the effects of the recession and that the recovery that comes from a recession, which has been under way for some time, has not occurred as they would have expected it to occur.''
Democrats have tried to use Mr. Romney's shifts in wording to raise a theme that has dogged him since his presidential campaign four years ago -- inconsistency -- issuing news release after news release pointing out his latest comments, including one Tuesday that read, ''Romney Flip-Flops at N.H. Town Hall.''
Advisers to Mr. Romney said they were hardly fretting, arguing that the whole flare-up has kept the debate right where they want it, on the slowness of the recovery and Mr. Romney's critique of Mr. Obama.
As Kevin Madden, an informal adviser and Mr. Romney's campaign spokesman in 2008, put it, ''They're actually spending time litigating whether the economy is worse under Obama, or if it's just bad.''
Of course, before Mr. Romney can truly focus on Mr. Obama he has a few other people to worry about: the other major Republican candidates who are not exactly ready to cede the nomination to him just yet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (67%); WRITERS (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



192 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Preserving Health Coverage for the Poor: Obama must resist deficit hawks who would roll back access to Medicaid

 BODY:
The poor and disabled people who rely on Medicaid to pay their medical bills could be in grave jeopardy in this sour I've-got-mine political climate. 
Older Americans, a potent voting bloc, have made clear that they won't stand for serious changes in Medicare. Medicaid, however, provides health insurance for the most vulnerable, who have far less political clout.
There is no doubt that Medicaid -- a joint federal-state program -- has to be cut substantially in future decades to help curb federal deficits. For cash-strapped states, program cuts may be necessary right now. But in reducing spending, government needs to ensure any changes will not cause undue harm to millions.
As Medicaid currently works, the federal government sets minimum requirements for eligibility and for services that must be covered; states can expand on services and include more people. The federal government is required to pay from half to three-quarters of the cost, depending on the wealth of a state's population. In tough economic times, Medicaid enrollments typically soar as government revenues shrink, adding budget woes.
House Republicans led by Paul Ryan want to turn Medicaid into a federal block grant program that would grow slowly and shift more costs to states and patients. Their plan would save $771 billion over a decade. Mr. Ryan also wants to repeal a big expansion of Medicaid required by the health care reforms. All told, he would cut $1.4 trillion over 10 years -- roughly a third of the more than $4 trillion in projected federal spending in that period.
President Obama, who would retain the Medicaid expansion, has proposed a cut of $100 billion, less than 2.5 percent of projected federal spending, which would be much more manageable, though a lot will depend on how it is carried out. The great danger in proposing $100 billion in cuts at the start is that Republicans will take that as an opening bid that can be negotiated upward, toward the unreasonable Ryan-level cuts the House has already approved.
The best route to savings -- already embodied in the reform law -- is to make the health care system more efficient over all so that costs are reduced for Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers as well. Various pilot programs to reduce costs might be speeded up, and a greater effort could be made to rein in malpractice costs.
Congressional Democrats and advocates for the poor are most worried that the administration will use a new ''blended rate'' for federal matching funds -- which would replace a patchwork of matching formulas for poor people and children with a single rate for each state -- as a way to lower the federal contribution. This could lead some states to reduce the benefits they offer, seek waivers to cut people from the rolls, or reduce their already low payments to hospitals and other providers.
The deficit-reduction push could also threaten the health care reform law's aim to have states cover more people under Medicaid starting in 2014 with the help of greatly enhanced federal matching funds. President Obama might be tempted to reduce higher federal contribution rates as part of his $100 billion savings. He must be careful not to trade away his goal of near-universal coverage to burnish his credentials as a deficit-cutter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (87%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); APPROVALS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



193 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: In Cuba, The Voice Of a Blog Generation

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Like any other first-time author, Yoani Sanchez was looking forward to receiving copies of her book, ''Cuba Libre,'' after it was published last year. But when the package sent from Buenos Aires by her publisher arrived in Havana, the Cuban customs service impounded the parcel and, after she complained, sent her a notice explaining its action.
''The content of the book entitled 'Free Cuba' transgresses against the general interests of the nation, in that it argues that certain political and economic changes are necessary in Cuba in order for its citizens to enjoy greater material well-being and attain personal fulfillment,'' stated the document, which Ms. Sanchez posted on her Web site. Such positions ''are extremes totally contrary to the principles of our society.''
Outside her homeland, though, Ms. Sanchez's writing is free of such censorship, and she has emerged as an important new voice, both literary and political. Published in the United States in May under the title ''Havana Real'' (Melville House), her book draws on the same collection of sketches of daily life in Cuba -- a dreary, enervating routine of food shortages, transportation troubles and narrowed opportunity -- that she has been posting on her Web site, Generation Y (desdecuba.com/generationy), since 2007. 
''This country is so saturated with contaminated, corrupted political discourse, with empty pamphleteering, that I wanted to explore other areas,'' Ms. Sanchez, 35, said last month in a telephone interview from Havana, interrupted several times when the connection broke down. ''I write about my interior life, the intimate sphere. It's the sentiments of one person but sums up the reality of many people and shows just how sick this society is.''
Globally, Ms. Sanchez's blog, whose name refers to the Russian-sounding names beginning with ''Y'' that many Cubans her age were given at the height of their nation's dependency on the Soviet Union, is available in a score of languages and gets up to 14 million visits a month. Within Cuba, though, the dictatorship of Fidel and Raul Castro has from the start sought to silence her and prevent other Cubans from reading what she calls her ''little vignettes of reality.''
Ms. Sanchez will not, for example, take a book tour to promote ''Havana Real'' because she is prohibited from leaving Cuba. ''We Cubans are like small children,'' she has written, ''who need Father's permission to leave the house.'' But she has sought to evade that restriction through videotaped virtual book readings, smuggled out of Cuba on flash drives, in which she explains her situation and reads sketches from her book. She has used similar subterfuges just to post her blog.
That stubborn cat-and-mouse battle, along with the forceful nature of her writing, have made Ms. Sanchez a potent symbol of resistance to five decades of totalitarian Communist rule. Former president Jimmy Carter met with her during a visit to Havana this year, President Obama did an online interview for her blog in late 2009, and in 2008 Time magazine, praising her ''charming but pugnacious slice-of-life portraits of life in Cuba,'' put her on its list of the 100 most influential people in the world.
''The logic of events has made her a kind of leader, perceived by people as giving voice to all the discontent of an entire generation,'' said Jose Manuel Prieto, the exiled Cuban novelist and former visiting scholar at the New York Public Library. ''She is not a news agency, so she circulates the population's feelings rather than journalistic scoops. But it bothers those in power that she has challenged their monopoly on information and offers a different reading of the country's reality.''
The Castro dictatorship has responded to her challenge by doubling down. In the state-controlled media, Ms. Sanchez is often accused of conducting a ''cyberwar'' against the government, and Fidel Castro has singled her work out for criticism, calling her the leader of a group of ''special envoys of neo-colonialism, sent to undermine'' his rule.
By training Ms. Sanchez is a philologist and once worked at a publishing house specializing in children's books. But the start of her political problems can be traced to her thesis at the University of Havana, ''Words Under Pressure: A Study of the Literature of Dictatorship in Latin America,'' which was seen as containing veiled criticisms of Fidel Castro's rule and praised writers she admires but who have had work banned, like the Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa.
Her political profile sometimes obscures Ms. Sanchez's prose style and connection to Latin American and other literary traditions, say those familiar with her work. ''She's a very gifted writer, and she's in a zone, like Federer playing at his best, able to choose what kind of shot she wants to make,'' said Oscar Hijuelos, the Pulitzer Prize-winning writer. ''She has a novelistic sensibility, but I am particularly touched by the down-to-earthiness of her portraiture, her reporting from the front lines of daily life in Cuba. She has some very interesting chops that any writer would admire.''
Ms. Sanchez seems particularly drawn to the essaylike genre known as the cronica, or chronicle, which she has helped bring into the 21st century by putting it online in compressed form. ''With her focus on the quotidian, she is very much a part of that tradition,'' said Enrique Del Risco, who left Cuba in 1995 and now teaches contemporary Latin American literature at New York University ''It's precisely that grounding in the domestic and personal plane that allows her to show how exhausting and crushing daily life can be.''
Recently Ms. Sanchez completed a second book, a manual whose title translates as ''Wordpress: A Blog for Speaking to the World.'' A new fiber-optic cable connecting Cuba with South America has just been laid, and when it begins fully operating later this summer, it is likely to increase opportunities not just for her, but for other dissident bloggers and writers, many of whom have attended the seminars she conducted that led to the writing of the second book.
''It's interesting that we're talking not about a bearded 80-year-old man, but a sharp, fearless, skinny 35-year-old mother,'' said Ted Henken, an expert on Cuba and the Internet who teaches at the City University of New York and visited Ms. Sanchez in April. ''That's new, and in some ways, by spreading the virus of blogging and tweeting to others, she has displaced Che and Fidel among young, progressive people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yoani Sanchez after meeting with Jimmy Carter in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SVEN CREUTZMANN/MAMBO PHOTO VIA GETTY) (C1)
Her writing, said Yoani Sanchez, above in her Havana apartment, describes ''the sentiments of one person but sums up the reality of many people.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DESMOND BOYLAN/REUTERS)
 Ms. Sanchez's blog, Generation Y, chronicles daily life under Castro. (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); SMUGGLING (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); GENERATION Y (69%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (51%); CHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); JIMMY CARTER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

TITLE: Cuba Libre (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



194 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE


HIGHLIGHT: Times reporter Damien Cave answers readers' questions on the economic, demographic and social changes in Mexico that are suppressing illegal immigration as much as the poor economy or legal crackdowns in the United States. 

 BODY:
2:20 p.m. | Updated Leer el articulo en espanol aqui: http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/world/americas/immigration-en-espanol.html.
First off, a big "thank you" to the commenters and questioners and Twitter users who have added their two cents to my story on how changes in Mexico, good and bad, have upended illegal immigration. It seems to have surprised some, relieved others and angered a few, all of which is typical of a complicated story on a complicated topic like immigration.
Some of the questions that have arisen require more research and time than I have now - on the impact of Nafta, for example. But the inquiries have inspired me to look into such issues, and in the meantime, here are a couple of responses to get the conversation started. 
Keep the questions and comments coming.
Q. Trying to reconcile the findings included in the report with the local Mexican news that claim that urban Mexicans with economic means are legally migrating to small and medium cities in USA and Canada due to the increasing criminal activity: extortion to small business and random gun fights on the streets. The numbers should be significant less than illegal immigration nonetheless crime is pushing people out of the country, as it happened in Mexico's civil war of 1910 or "La Revolucion."
Q.Via Twitter, @maraiflo writes: "@damiencave don't you think it has to do more with the fear of ending up worse, like in a pit in Tamaulipas?"
A.There have been a few questions and comments on this theme - what about the drug cartels and violence? I will tackle this subject more fully in a future story, but it is true that the violence along the border in particular is driving some people away. State Department figures show growth, for example, in E-class visas, which allow investors who create at least one job outside their family to move to the United States, and in border-crossing cards issued to Mexicans (which allow people to stay in the United States, near the border, for up to 72 hours).
But this is mostly a border-town phenomenon, and the numbers are nowhere near as large as the waves of people who came illegally during the peak years of illegal migration, in the '90s and just after 2000. More interesting, I think, is the effect of the violence on people who live away from Mexican border towns. In states like Oaxaca and Jalisco, for instance, cartel violence is a big reason for NOT going to the United States because the trip would mean crossing through crime-infested areas at the border. I heard this quite a bit in Jalisco. "It's so much more dangerous. You never know who might kidnap or kill you."
The stories of relatives in trouble are part of the reason why the narrative has changed. But parents of young Mexicans, especially mothers, have also really become more protective. While they used to encourage their children, especially sons, to go north and work, now many of them are advising against crossing illegally. That was the case in the Orozco family. While the sons talked about the range of issues making it harder to justify making the journey, their mom - a sweet woman who makes fantastic tortillas - repeatedly emphasized the risk of violence and crime.
Basically, crime and the cartels are definitely factors, but not necessarily in the way one might expect. 
Q. My thought: With a high poverty rate, 40-50%, you're always going to have cross border employment crossings. Many anecdotes are cited; any hard facts--number employed vs. number unemployed in Mexico? - Monsieur Bronx
A. One of the most frustrating things about trying to analyze immigration and Mexican economics is that there are no good numbers for unemployment. Officially the Mexican government puts it at around 5 percent, but economists will tell you that this does not account for the informal economy in Mexico and those who are underemployed. (So all the guys making a few pesos washing your windows at stoplights in Mexico City or Tijuana are considered to be as employed as teachers or lawyers.)
Having spoken to a bunch of economists about this, I've found that the official figures are useful as trend indicators but not as hard numbers. You can see when unemployment goes up and down, but you can't link a specific figure to, say migration patterns.
It is true that people crossing for work are inevitable when wages in the United States are higher than in Mexico, which is still the case. But it's the differential that seems to matter more than actual unemployment rates. As this study from 2005 noted, most Mexican immigrants give up jobs at home to leave for the United States. The stereotype of jobless Americans heading north seems to be just that - a stereotype that doesn't get at the underlying nuances of the situation. 
Q.How did you choose Agua Negra, Jalisco to do your story? I am from there, and the people interviewed are my family. What was your process to choose such a beautiful part of Mexico for this excellent story?
A.Gustavo -- how nice to hear from another Jalicense, another Orozco from Agua Negra no less! If you talk to your relatives before I do, tell them I say hello and thank you for letting me into their lives. As to how I found them, it started with data. Carlos Galindo, a wonderful Mexican demographer who is an advisor the Mexican government, helped me dig through the census data to find places that were experiencing population growth or exhibiting other signs of a shift in the migration dynamic. We looked at the handful of states that were historic emigration hubs and found that some of the population increases were especially pronounced. At the same time, the data showed a substantial increase in Mexicans returning home. 
Then I started looking for a place in Jalisco that embodied the change. I spoke to economists and experts and Mexico and the United States but I settled on Arandas and Agua Negra because there was a robust historical record of emigration there, with Paul S. Taylor's book from the 30s and a more recent book - "A Nation of Emigrants" by David Fitzgerald, a professor at the University of California, San Diego. This was a baseline for me that, I figured, would let me really compare the present moment with the past - it was a way to make sure that the story did not read as supposition, and it let me lay out the narrative of the region in a way that would show the drivers of migration over several generations. I visited in the spring (with a taxi driver who had been illegal and who said his kids only wanted to go to the U.S. for vacation) with little more than a list of names that David Fitzgerald passed on to me. These were people he spoke to several years ago, people who could tell me if there was in fact a change going on. One of those people was Guadalupe Orozco, Antonio's brother. He happens to a very colorful character who did not end up in the story, but who helped me realize that his extended family offered a full portrait of the area's immigration history and current dynamic. His nephew, Ramon, who works in the government office, knew Agua Negra completely, down to which families had migrants where, and he led me to his brothers and parents. I returned and spent time with them a few weeks ago. It took a long time to find them - but everyone I met in Agua Negra was gracious and friendly. These kinds of stories are impossible if not for people like your relatives, people brave and gracious enough to let a gringo stranger into their living rooms, their kithchens, their entire lives. I will always be grateful. 
Q.Via Twitter, @ThinkMexican writes: "@damiencave What's with all the mentions of "illegal" in your new article? Check out this page for Journos: http://ow.ly/5xxoX."
A.Ah, the i-word. I was asked about my use of this recently by another journalist writing about the campaign to eliminate use of the word "illegals" and in this case, I think there are two important distinctions that need to be made. First of all, at no point in my story do I describe immigrants themselves as "illegals." Use of that word as a general catch-all strikes me as reductive and unfair. It reduces migrants solely to the issue of whether they are violating the law by being in the United States, and it is a term rarely applied to any group other than immigrants from Mexico and Central America. 
That said, using illegal as an adjective - as I do in this story - aims not to insult but rather to differentiate one group of immigrants (legal) from another. I could have instead used undocumented or unauthorized but in a story so focused on the distinction and the interaction between legal and illegal, I felt I had to be as clear as possible. Illegal seemed to be the best way to achieve that. 
Q.Hi Damien,Interesting article. What is the source for the Mexican government statistics claiming to show that more Mexicans are crossing with documents in recent years? You mentioned that this is survey data. Can you provide more information on what the survey is measuring? Thanks.
A.These numbers are estimates from CONAPO, the Mexican census analysis agency, based on survey data from bus stations near the border, and other places where migrants congregate. The formal name of the survey is the Encuesta Sobre Migracion en la Frontera and here is a link. As I note in the story, the data counts attempted crossings not people and because of how it is conducted - at bus stations, not airports -- it tends to emphasize lower class Mexicans who are the lion's share of illegal immigrants. I didn't include the numbers in the story because my editors and I thought they might be confusing or misinterpreted without all this context, but the data show that an estimated 855,000 Mexicans tried to cross or did cross the border in 2007, a peak year, and that 20 percent of those, or 171,000, told surveyors that they did so with documents. By 2009, the total number had dropped to 630,000 and 38 percent of those, or 239,400 said they did so with immigration documents. So there was an increase both as a real number and as a proportion of the total. There is a good degree of speculation among experts about what percentage of these documents are real, and it is true that selling fake documents is a big business in Mexico and the United States. But several other data sources confirmed the increased availability of legal options, and in terms of fraud, there have been major advances in preventing it. The new border crossing cards, for instance, include biometric data that make it much harder for people to sell or pass the cards on to someone else.

        
Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico
        
X-Ray Scan Reveals 513 Migrants in 2 Trucks
        
Tijuana Violence Flares as Chicago's Cools
        
Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
        
Tear Gas Over Borders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); CARTELS (63%) illegal immigration; immigration; Mexico; United States; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; United States International Relations; americas; world

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%) Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



195 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: How to Create Jobs and Cut the Deficit

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Reducing the federal minimum wage to its level in early 2009 may restore hundreds of thousands of jobs to the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Another federal minimum-wage increase would not, as some proponents promise, create jobs, but would reduce employment.
A few months ago, The New York Times editorialized that America's minimum-wage workers "need a raise." The Center for American Progress said a higher federal minimum wage "encourages spending, investment and economic growth."
Many economists expect the minimum wage, if it has any effect, to raise employer costs and thereby reduce employment, especially among people who are likely to work in minimum-wage jobs, like part-time workers.
Federal and state minimum wages have changed a number of times over the years, and each of those instances provides an opportunity to test the employment-reducing hypothesis. For the episodes before 2007 (which I'll refer to as the historical minimum-wage increases), many statistical studies of minimum-wage effects are summarized in books by David Neumark and William L. Wascher and David Card and Alan B. Krueger.
Not everyone interprets the historical evidence the same way. The New York Times and the Center for American Progress cited some of that evidence to alleviate concerns that a minimum-wage increase would reduce employment.
Even those who believe that historical minimum-wage increases did little, if anything, to reduce employment are still likely to appreciate that a minimum wage that was high enough -- a hypothetical $100 an hour, for example -- would significantly depress employment. The real disagreement is whether historical minimum wages were high enough, and the economic situations right, for those increases to destroy a large number of jobs.
The most recent federal minimum-wage increase, on July 24, 2009, had the potential to have different effects than its predecessors. Adjusted for inflation (and deflation), by 2009 the real federal minimum wage had been raised to a level 32 percent higher than it had been in 2006 -- nowhere near our hypothetical height, which we all agree would be destructive -- but perhaps high enough to have some of those effects.
In addition, during a recession hiring decisions may be especially sensitive to employment costs, though some economists say recessions make employment less sensitive to wages.
It's also easy to exaggerate the effects, good or bad, of the federal minimum wage, because seasonal workers, employees who rely on tips and others are exempt from it, and a few states have minimum wages above the federal minimum.
For these reasons, I have been studying the 2009 federal minimum-wage increase by itself and trying to separate the effects of the recession from the effects of the wage increase (see this recent publication for more details; my next posts will point to some other findings from the 2009 increase).
Part-time and teenage employees are especially likely to have hourly wages near the federal minimum. The red line in the chart below displays seasonally adjusted national part-time employment by month, from the Census Bureau's monthly household survey. Before July 2009, part-time employment increased by about three million during the recession and that month reached the peak level of part-time employment.
To investigate the possibility that the July 2009 wage increase stopped further increases in part-time employment and perhaps affected other employment categories, I estimated a monthly model of national part-time and full-time employment per capita for each of 12 demographic groups distinguished by race, gender and age (white and nonwhite, male and female, and 16 to 19 compared with 20 to 54 and 55 and over), using data from before the increase.
I used the model to forecast part-time and full-time employment for each demographic group for August 2009 through December 2010. The aggregate deviation of the part-time predictions from the actual was added to the red line to arrive at the aggregate part-time prediction shown as the chart's blue line.
After falling 9.3 million during the recession through July 2009, aggregate full-time employment fell another 1.8 million by the end of the year and remained below July 2009 levels at the end of 2010. Some people dismissed from their full-time jobs probably had trouble finding another suitable one, and some of them worked part time while they searched.
Consistent with this story, my estimates predicted that part-time employment would have continued to increase during the second half of 2009 because, before the increase, part-time employment tended to increase with full-time job losses.
The actual and predicted data depart dramatically beginning in September 2009, with actual part-time employment 1.2 million below predicted part-time employment by December and averaging 975,000 part-time positions below what was predicted over the months August 2009 to December 2010.
A small number of these job losses were offset by possible increases in full-time employment (relative to what it would have been - more on this next week). I find the total job loss from the July 2009 minimum-wage increase to be about 800,000.
If raising the minimum wage reduced employment by 800,000, cutting it back to its early 2009 level is likely to increase employment by 800,000. That would add a bit to government revenue as some of those people moved from unemployment benefits to tax-paying workers.

        
The Minimum Wage and Teenage Jobs
        
Summertime Blues for Teenagers
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Measuring Jobless Families
        
A 'Paradox of Toil'?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); JOB CREATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (60%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; Minimum Wage; recession; teenagers; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; Part-Time Employment; Recession and Depression; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



196 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Economist: America's obesity epidemic (one in three adults is obese, and the onset age gets earlier and earlier) is "a hurricane that's about to sweep across the country," one researcher says about looming higher levels of physical disability. - Glenn Collins
Mother Jones: I'm a little late to this, but it's still newsworthy.
After reading Ted Genoways's sickening article on conditions at a Spam factory, Tom Philpott provides a stunning historical analysis of the meat industry's relentless cost cutting and its effects on animals and people.
- Nick Fox
New York Post: City shuts down Fu Sushi in the East Village for health violations. But they were open this weekend anyway, the Post reports.
- Sam Sifton
Eater: Talia Baiocchi offers a quick guide to summer drinking destinations. Caution, New York-centric. - Eric Asimov
Lucky Peach: The first issue of Momofuku magazine "Lucky Peach" has the best regional-ramen map ever. First printing is sold out; get on the backorder list. - Julia Moskin
Tasting Table: Is ghee on the verge of making a mainstream American splash? A producer in California is banking on it. - Jeff Gordinier
Pattaya Daily News: Restaurant news as if from the files of Sonchai Jitpleecheep, as a couple is arrested in Thailand for running drugs out of their Banglamung restaurant. - Sam Sifton
John Burdett: Sonchai who? He is a fictional Royal Thai detective and Buddhist created by the novelist John Burdett, and you really ought to be reading his adventures, if only for the marvelous descriptions of food.
- Sam Sifton 
Bloomberg Businessweek: Joey "Jaws" Chestnut, winner of the Nathan's Famous hot-dog-eating contest, is not alone. A growing roster of competitive eaters is now battling for big bucks in some 90 nausea-inducing contests year-round, many organized by two corporate entrepreneurs.
- Glenn Collins
National Post: These crazy-colored Canadian lobsters just keep getting hauled out of the sea! This new one's bright orange, looks cooked, is very much alive. - Sam Sifton
Asbury Park Press: Fascinating story off a new government survey shows a clear link between the health of the horseshoe crab population and the viability of the red knot shore bird. Horseshoe crabs were once used as bait for commercial fishermen. - Sam Sifton
The Atlantic: Corby Kummer's excellent dispatch from the Aspen Ideas Festival, where he moderated a *ton* of panels on food issues. - Sam Sifton
Twitter: Grant Achatz - @gachatz - releases the next menu for his Next restaurant. It's Thai! - Sam Sifton
The New York Times: Bahamas has banned commercial shark fishing.
- Sam Sifton
Wine Spectator: Matt Kramer gives the rose nay-sayers a gentle smackdown. - Eric Asimov
The Guardian: Maybe we should stop trying to improve airplane food and just accept its queasy-making mediocrity - and, yes, that includes "the odd waft as you peel the lid from your dinner," as James Ramsden writes.
- Jeff Gordinier
The Wall Street Journal: Roaming Acres ostrich farm in Andover, N.J., makes about $500,000 a year selling 2,600 eggs and the meat of 350 birds. But this spring's wet weather has kept the birds from laying eggs. And how do you feel about the headline, "Scramble for Ostrich Eggs''? - Nick Fox
The Guardian: Even The Guardian, in England, calls New York City bagels "claggy loo seats,'' whatever that means. - Nick Fox
SF Weekly: Where to drink like a Brit in San Francisco. - Jeff Gordinier
Esquire: Tom Colicchio tells you how to bake a sea bass in salt.
- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CRUSTACEANS (84%); WRITERS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); EPIDEMICS (73%); HISTORY (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); RELIGION (50%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (53%)

TICKER: NATH (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (79%); BAHAMAS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



197 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Walcott Limits Money Schools Can Roll Over

BYLINE: FERNANDA SANTOS


HIGHLIGHT: The chancellor put a cap of $44 per student on any unspent funds a school will be allowed to tuck away for the next year. 

 BODY:
Math conundrum: When is 70 percent more than 100 percent?
When the Department of Education's new budget-rollover policy takes effect.
Responding to criticism from principals and their union, the schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott has changed a controversial policy of letting schools that save money in a given year keep only 70 percent of it, with the city taking the rest for general use. Instead, he told principals last week, schools that earn A's, B's or C's on their annual progress reports will be allowed to keep anything they save - up to $44 per enrolled student.
There's the rub. 
On Wednesday, Edward Tom, the principal at the Bronx Center for Science and Mathematics, sent an e-mail to Mr. Walcott, pointing out that he saved $200,000 in the school year that just ended, and could roll over $140,000 of it under the 70-percent rule enacted in March by Mr. Walcott's predecessor, Cathleen P. Black. But under the new policy, which begins next year, the 415-student school, Mr. Tom noted, would be able to roll over at most $18,260 - 9 percent. "My colleagues and I are willing to accept greater responsibility and accountability for the success of every child, but we require the autonomy to lead our schools the way we see fit," Mr. Tom wrote.
Similarly, under the current policy, the High School of Telecommunication Arts and Technology in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, will get to roll over $445,000 of the $650,000 it had accumulated over three years; under the new policy, with its enrollment of 1,280 as of October, it could keep no more than $56,320 - about 8.6 percent. For schools like these, the new policy, like the old one, provides a strong disincentive for saving large sums.
The math is less confusing at Public School 133 in Bellerose, Queens, which saved $15,587 in 2010-11, of which it can keep $10,911 for the new school year under the 70-percent rollover rule. Based on its most recent enrollment, 485 children, the school will be entitled to roll over $21,340 under the new policy. If it manages to save that much next year, that is.
Principals, is your school more like the one in Bay Ridge or the one in Bellerose? Please use the comment box below to do the math and let us know whether $44 per student is more or less than 70 percent of a typical year's savings.
The whole idea of schools rolling over funds from one year to the next began in July 2005. Before that, any money left in a school's budget at the end of the year reverted to the city.
In the first year that the policy changed, schools saved - and rolled over - $36 million; by 2009-10, the amount had increased to $80 million. This coming year, with some principals having gone on shopping sprees for supplies upon learning the city would take almost a third of their unspent money, the schools will get to hold on to about $22 million of the $32 million they had left at the end of June. 
Facing tight budgets, a tool given to principals to plan for a rainy day became too enticing for a city starved for cash. 
"In better economic times, the city could absorb it," said Natalie Ravitz, a spokeswoman for the Department of Education. "But we've had a huge loss of state and federal funds. So we are trying to strike a balance, and be very clear from the outset about the program."
An earlier version of this post erroneously reported that the unspent money would go to the Board of Education and that the High School of Telecommunication Arts and Technology had saved $650,000 in a single year. 

        
Joel I. Klein, Former Schools Chancellor, to Tackle Hacking Case
        
City School Funds Were Spent Elsewhere, Lawmakers Say
        
Even Before Layoffs, Schools Lost 135 Arts Teachers
        
Quinn Proposes $75 Million in Education Budget Cuts
        
Makeshift Effort Rising to Oppose Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%) Dennis M. Walcott; school budgets; Walcott, Dennis M; Education (K-12); Education Department (NYC); New York City; Highlights; Schools

ORGANIZATION: Education Department (NYC)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (51%) Walcott, Dennis M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



198 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Would You Like Some Dog Food With Your Diapers?

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER


HIGHLIGHT: Quidsi, the Amazon-owned e-commerce company behind Diapers.com, introduced Wag.com to sell pet supplies. 

 BODY:
Quidsi, the company that started Diapers.com, is doing all it can to make sure people can run their errands without getting off the couch. Next up: Wag.com, which sells pet supplies.
Wag.com, introduced Wednesday, sells 10,000 pet items like food, litter, toys, clothing and grooming supplies. Quidsi, which was acquired by Amazon.com for $500 million last year, also runs Diapers.com for baby supplies, Soap.com for drugstore items and BeautyBar.com for cosmetics.
The sites, especially Wag.com, bring to mind Pets.com, a company that came to epitomize the last tech bubble. It also delivered pet supplies and, like the other bubble-era failures Kozmo.com and Webvan.com, lost money on each customer because it spent so much on inventory, warehouses and shipping.
But technological developments in the last decade and an emphasis on reining in costs have changed the e-commerce model, says Vinit Bharara and Marc Lore, Quidsi's founders. Quidsi obsesses about logistics and built warehouse technology like robots that choose the size of box an order requires and fill it from the warehouse. And Quidsi only offers free shipping above a certain price. 
The economics of selling pet food online have also improved, Mr. Lore said. People buy more organic pet food now, which costs more per pound, so shipping costs as a percent of revenue are lower.
Still, shipping bulky items at low prices "has always been expensive and it still is," Mr. Bharara said. To make up for that, Quidsi focuses on nurturing long-term customers. "That pays out much more in the long run than the transient connection you may acquire when you make a ton of money by delivering one product to one customer once," he said.
For instance, Diapers.com and the other sites pride themselves on a large selection, easy shopping and customer service perks like round-the-clock representatives available by phone and overnight or two-day shipping.
As a result, the sites have built an impressive audience since Diapers.com started in 2005. Meanwhile, their competition has shrunk. Walmart.com remains a competitor, but Amazon bought Quidsi and Drugstore.com was gobbled up in March by Walgreens.
Since buying Quidsi, Amazon has let the company continue to operate mostly on its own in Jersey City, but Quidsi has benefited from things like Amazon's lower shipping rates, Mr. Lore said.
Quidsi tried to make Wag.com easy to navigate, Mr. Lore said. For instance, once pet owners indicate what type of pet they have, they only see products for dogs or fish on the site. Customers can shop across all Quidsi's site and make the purchase from the same online shopping cart.
Quidsi plans to keep expanding. It is building Yoyo.com to sell toys and other sites to appeal to busy mothers, Mr. Lore said.

        
Out of Toothpaste or Toilet Paper? Buy It Online
        
Amazon Enters the Flash Sale Fray With Myhabit
        
Tech Companies Venture Into Fashion
        
An Amazon-Facebook Alliance to Make Shopping More Social
        
More Shoppers Go Online, Hungry for Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (94%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PET FOODS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); PETS (89%); DOGS (89%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); DATA WAREHOUSING (74%); ORGANIC FOODS (72%); COSMETICS (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%) Amazon.com; bubble; Diapers.com; online shopping; Quidsi; Wag.com; Computers and the Internet; E-Commerce; Shopping and Retail; Amazon.com Inc; Quidsi Inc; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Advertising and E-Commerce; Company News; Internet

COMPANY: QUIDSI INC (90%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; Quidsi Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



199 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Kinetic Concepts Said to Be in Talks to Sell Itself

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Private equity firms in recent years have coveted wound-care businesses, which have relatively stable cash flows against which they can borrow lots of debt. 

 BODY:
5:42 p.m. | Updated Kinetic Concepts, a maker of wound-healing technology, is seeking to sell itself for about $5 billion, people briefed on the matter told DealBook on Wednesday.
The company has held talks with several buyout firms, though the negotiations may still fall apart, said these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity. One of these firms is the Blackstone Group, one of these people added.
Should a deal be reached it would be one of the largest private equity transactions since the end of the credit crisis.
 Shares in the company rose about 11.8 percent in heavy trading on Wednesday morning, to $65.72, afterBloomberg News reported the sales talks. That gives Kinetic Concepts a market value of nearly $4.8 billion.
Private equity firms have in recent years coveted wound-care businesses, which have relatively stable cash flows against which they can borrow lots of debt. Bristol-Myers Squbb sold its Convatec business to Avista Capital Partners and Nordic Capital for $4.1 billion, in the largest buyout in 2008. 
Also that year, One Equity Partners acquiredJohnson & Johnson's wound-care unit for an undisclosed price. One Equity renamed the company Systagenix. 
A deal for Kinetic Concepts has been rumored for years, though there has never been a formal sales process around the company. The company is the global market leader in negative-pressure therapy, a technology that uses vacuum pumps to treat wounds. In recent years, lower-priced competitors have cut into the company's market share. 
In 2008 Kinetic Concepts made a large acquisition of its own, paying $1.7 billion in cash for LifeCell, now a unit of the company that develops surgery products that use human skin tissue. 
Last year, the company, based in San Antonio, reported $256.1 million in profit atop $2 billion in revenue. It currently has about $1.1 billion in debt.
But the company has been embroiled in a fight with Wake Forest University over patents related to its V.A.C. therapy products, which use vacuums to help heal wounds. 
A $5 billion deal would bolster to the private equity industry. The effects of the flagging economy and concerns over sovereign debt have constrained banks from issuing loans to finance large leveraged buyouts. A buyout of Kinetic Concepts would be the largest private equity transaction of 2011, surpassing Bain Capital and Hellman & Friedman's recent acquisition of Securitas, a European home alarm company, according to data from Thomson Reuters. 
Since the financial crisis struck in the fall of 2008, the biggest leveraged buyout has been the Kohlberg Kravis Roberts-led $5.3 billion acquisition of Del Monte Foods. That is a far cry from the largest leveraged buyout on record, the 2007 purchase of Texas utility Energy Future Holdings for $44 billion by K.K.R., TPG and Goldman Sachs. 
News of Blackstone's involvement was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal online.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); CASH FLOW (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); WOUND CARE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); PATENTS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%) Kinetic Concepts; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Private Equity; Kinetic Concepts, Incorporated; Kinetic Concepts, Incorporated|KCI|NYSE; Healthcare; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: AVISTA CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (84%); KKR & CO LP (80%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (72%); CONVATEC (69%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (50%); ENERGY FUTURE HOLDINGS CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Kinetic Concepts, Incorporated

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (80%); BX (NYSE) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (57%) Kinetic Concepts, Incorporated; KCI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (72%); SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (50%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (50%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (50%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



200 of 1224 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: The Obama-Keynes Mystery

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Maybe it's personal. 

 BODY:
I'm not alone in marveling at the extent to which Obama has thrown his rhetorical weight behind anti-Keynesian economics; Ryan Avent is equally amazed, as are many others. And now he's endorsing the structural unemployment story too.
To those defending Obama on the grounds that he's saying what he has to politically, I have two answers. First, words matter -- as people who rallied around Obama in the first place because of his eloquence should know. Yes, he has to make compromises on policy grounds -- but that doesn't mean he has to adopt the right's rhetoric and arguments. The effect of his intellectual capitulation is that we now have only one side in the national argument.
Second, since Obama keeps talking nonsense about economics, at what point do we stop giving him credit for actually knowing better? Maybe at some point we have to accept that he believes what he's saying.
The question then is why. As I've tried to show many times, the facts overwhelmingly refute the anti-Keynes talking points. Neither the invisible bond vigilantes nor the confidence fairy have made an appearance. So why is Obama talking up those talking points?
OK, here's an unprofessional speculation: maybe it's personal. Maybe the president just doesn't like the kind of people who tell him counterintuitive things, who say that the government is not like a family, that it's not right for the government to tighten its belt when Americans are tightening theirs, that unemployment is not caused by lack of the right skills. Certainly just about all the people who might have tried to make that argument have left the administration or are leaving soon.
And what's left, I'm afraid, are the Very Serious People. It looks as if those are the people the president feels comfortable with. And that, of course, is a tragedy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

 
