

1 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KEMPLER, CECELIA (SUE)

 BODY:
KEMPLER--Cecelia (Sue). The partners, counsel, associates and administrative staff of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP deeply mourn the passing of our retired partner and dear friend, Sue Kempler. Sue co-chaired the Firm's Insurance Practice and chaired its Life Insurance Practice. 
She was the first woman on the Firm's Executive Committee and the Managing Partner of the Washington DC office. After her retirement, she served on the Board of AEGON U.S. and on the Supervisory Board of AEGON N.V., and she was the founding Director of the Kaye School of Finance, Insurance and Economics at Florida Atlantic University. Law was Sue's second career, and she pursued it with passion and boundless energy. She was an inspirational leader, mentor, role model, partner and friend. She was a shrewd and highly skilled lawyer who was always the absolute personification of client service. She was wise, warm and witty, charming, generous and fun. And always elegant. She fought her final battle with the great courage, dignity and determination that characterized her life. We extend our condolences to Sue's beloved partner of 31 years and spouse, Virginia Ellen Cropper, and to her family. Donations in Sue's memory can be made to: Boca Raton Regional Hospital Foundation (Lynn Cancer Institute) re: Cecelia Sue Kempler, c/o BRRH Foundation, Inc., 745 Meadows Road, Boca Raton, Florida 33486.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); LAWYERS (75%)

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (93%); AEGON NV (84%); AEGON USA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA ATLANTIC UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: AGN (BIT) (84%); AGN (AMS) (84%); AEG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



2 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: As Good as It Gets?

 BODY:
The economy was weak in 2011, but it ended better than it started, with growth up from its lows and unemployment down from its highs. The question now is whether that progress will continue into 2012. We wish we could say yes, but unless policy makers are incredibly lucky or remarkably adept -- certainly not the description that comes to mind when thinking of, say, Congress -- the answer is no.
When data is released later this month, economists expect growth of around 3 percent for the last quarter of 2011, compared with 1.2 percent on average in the first three quarters. But there is little in the latest growth spurt to signal a self-reinforcing recovery going forward. 
Holiday shoppers had more cash to spend because of the decline in oil prices, not a rise in wages. A drop in the jobless rate was driven by a mix of new hiring and a large number of potential workers who gave up futile job searches. Signs of life in the housing market, including more sales, were dampened by falling prices as foreclosures continued.
The way to revive sustainable growth is with more government aid to help create jobs, support demand and prevent foreclosures. As things stand now, however, Washington will provide less help, not more, in 2012. Republican lawmakers refuse to acknowledge that government cutbacks at a time of economic weakness will only make the economy weaker. And too many Democrats, who should know better, have for too long been reluctant to challenge them.
The drag from premature cuts is significant. Waning stimulus spending subtracted an estimated half a percentage point from growth in 2011; this year, cutbacks will very likely cost the economy a full percentage point of growth. That means the best-case economic projection is for a new year of anemic expansion and high joblessness -- muddling along with growth of about 2 percent, which is too weak to push unemployment much below its current 8.6 percent.
And even that dismaying prospect assumes that Congress will extend the payroll tax cut and federal unemployment benefits beyond their expiration in late February. It also assumes that the inevitable recession in Europe and the expected slowdown in China will be shallow and pose no real threat to the United States recovery. If those assumptions are wrong, growth in the United States economy, if any, will be exceedingly meager and joblessness will rise.
It does not have to be this way. After nearly a year of trying to accommodate Republicans in their calls for excessive budget cuts, President Obama finally pushed a strong jobs bill including spending for public works, aid to state and local governments and an infrastructure bank, as well as renewal of a payroll tax break and jobless aid. Congressional Republicans blocked the bill, and with it, the chance to create some 1.9 million jobs. But late last month, the Republican leadership in the Senate and House retreated -- even if extremists in the party did not -- and managed to temporarily extend the payroll tax cut and jobless benefits.
The extension is only for two months, setting up another fight. But the good news is that in the showdown, Mr. Obama and the Democratic leadership did not back down. And at least some Republicans seemed to realize that their relentless calls for cutting may have a political cost.
The economy, and struggling Americans, need a lot more help. Mr. Obama needs to translate his newfound focus on the middle class into an agenda for broad prosperity, making the case that what the nation needs now is a large short-run effort to create jobs coupled with a plan to cut the deficit as the economy recovers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



3 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Occupying The Arts, A Seat at a Time

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
THE Juilliard School's inviting 275-seat Paul Hall was nearly packed recently for an early-evening concert, a free 60-minute Liederabend program on which four gifted student singers, each paired with a comparably gifted pianist, sang songs by Schumann. Classical music has struggled for a long time to fight the perception -- an unfair perception -- that it is elitist and inaccessible. But here was a program that didn't even require tickets. People just showed up.
There were plenty of fellow students and friends of the performers in the audience, but also lots of civilians, so to speak, music lovers who like to take advantage of a wonderful community resource. I overheard a regular at these free concerts tell a newcomer about the performances he had enjoyed so far this season, including two previous Liederabend concerts. During the school year at Juilliard, to look at just this one institution in New York, there are often two or three free events per day: chamber music, piano recitals, early-instrument ensembles, orchestra concerts. 
As I listened to these students sing, I thought about the issues of economic inequality that the Occupy Wall Street protesters have moved to the center of political discourse. From the Medici family and Ludwig of Bavaria to Andrew Carnegie and David H. Koch, classical music, like other performing arts, has long depended on the 1 percent. Historically some of this generosity comes from people who simply support the arts they love; but some comes with strings attached. This dependence would seem to make the performing arts a natural focus for the Occupy activists. And twice recently protesters held rallies at Lincoln Center after opera productions.
One demonstration took place after the American premiere at Juilliard of the British composer Peter Maxwell Davies's gripping new opera, ''Kommilitonen!'' It intercuts three stories based on actual events: the struggle of the civil rights pioneer James Meredith to become the first black student at the University of Mississippi; the work of some young Germans in the White Rose movement during the Nazi era who risked their lives to distribute pamphlets and fight propaganda; and the tale of siblings who get swept up in the Cultural Revolution in China and denounce their parents as politically impure. The other rally came at the Metropolitan Opera after the final performance this season of Philip Glass's ''Satyagraha,'' his 1980 work that explores the life of Gandhi.
In each case it was easier to understand the issues that the Occupy Wall Street protesters care about than what policies they were seeking in relation to the arts.
I spoke with one thoughtful young woman at the rally after ''Kommilitonen!'' who said the protests were not really aimed at Juilliard. Here was an opera about seminal moments in the history of student activism, a work whose German title roughly translates as ''Fellow Students,'' but the main goal, this protester said, was to stir people to action, especially the performers and audience members. There were chants of ''Off the stage, into the streets!''
At the rally after ''Satyagraha'' the protesters were ordered off Lincoln Center Plaza by the New York police and relegated to the sidewalk in front. That the Met was presenting an opera about Gandhi, a hero of civil disobedience, yet the activists were not allowed to protest in the plaza was galling to many participants.
I recently spoke with a pianist in the doctoral program at Juilliard, Ben Laude, who has been deeply involved with Occupy Wall Street. ''Is Lincoln Center truly a site of free expression?'' Mr. Laude asked. ''Satyagraha'' is a profound work that tells a timely story, he added. ''I couldn't imagine a historical figure more dedicated to a staunchly anticonsumerist stance.''
As a nonprofit private institution with a cultural and educational mission Lincoln Center does not permit demonstrations or passing out leaflets of any kind in the plaza, a policy upheld by United States Court of Appeals, which has designated it a ''limited public forum,'' said Eileen McMahon, a Lincoln Center spokeswoman.
On the night of the rally at ''Satyagraha,'' as the audience left the house, the police directed people to walk down the side exits of the plaza, to avoid the protesters.
A video taken by Alex Ross, a critic for The New Yorker, captured the scene, with protesters shouting to audience members: ''The opera is your life!'' ''Your life is the opera!'' ''What would Gandhi do?'' ''Exercise your rights!'' At the end Mr. Glass appeared at the protest and read the final lines of the libretto, taken from the Bhagavad-Gita. Protesters took turns speaking to the crowd that night. There were denunciations of Mr. Koch, the billionaire backer of right-wing causes who gave $100 million for the renovation of the New York State Theater, which now bears his name. And, echoing some of the slogans heard during the rally after ''Kommilitonen!,'' certain speakers at the ''Satyagraha'' demonstration made the familiar charge that the performing arts were elitist.
Mr. Laude emphasized to me that this issue is not central to the movement, and that at an open rally people are inevitably going to speak their minds.
Yes, the arts, especially in America, where government support is so paltry compared with Europe, have relied on backing from the wealthiest sliver of society. And, yes, top ticket prices at prestigious performing-arts institutions are out of reach for many among the 99 percent.
But as we try to grasp what the committed Occupy Wall Street activists are saying to the performing arts, can we all agree to put aside at last the charge of elitism? Especially, I would say from my partisan perspective, regarding classical music? At least in New York and in many other American cities, as well as most college towns, there are abundant opportunities to attend free or very affordable concerts and operas.
Just three days after that Schumann song recital at Juilliard, I was at another exhilarating free event there, Juilliard New Dances: Edition 2011, at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater. The program presented new works by four choreographers created for each of the four classes of dancers at Juilliard. That Sunday matinee was the fifth and final performance, and the place was packed. When I arrived, people were lined up outside hoping to get in.
The Manhattan School of Music, Mannes College and other educational institutions in New York have similarly full seasons of free and affordable events. True, premium parterre box seats at the Met go for more than $400. But premium seats at Broadway musicals are just as expensive. Upper balcony seats for that ''Satyagraha'' performance were $25, and from up there you can see and hear everything just fine. Also, the Met offers $20 rush tickets and free dress rehearsals for many new productions, not to mention the HD broadcasts around the world, which have turned the Met into the new people's opera. At Juilliard tickets for ''Kommilitonen!'' were $15 to $30, and half-price for students -- less than what you'd pay for a basic Yankees T-shirt, let alone a seat at a game.
For Mr. Laude and many other protesters the main issue regarding performing arts institutions is not inaccessibility but insularity. In other countries, he pointed out, the government and society work together to include arts directly in the lives of citizens. There is, for example, the exemplary youth orchestra training program El Sistema in Venezuela. And the public school system in Finland offers thorough music education as part of every student's day. About 25 years ago, when Finland seemed to be producing more than its share of top composers and performers, the reason was obvious: You get what you pay for.
In recent decades other institutions have tried hard to rectify the historic problem of insularity. So many orchestras and ensembles in New York present youth concerts and sponsor special outreach programs for schoolchildren that my colleagues and I find it impossible to cover them all. Joseph W. Polisi, Juilliard's president, offers ''American Society and the Arts,'' a course that gets students out of the practice rooms and into thinking about what they can bring to their communities.
Mr. Laude noted that the productions of ''Kommilitonen!'' and ''Satyagraha'' coincided with national protests by thousands of students over exorbitant tuition costs as well as rallies decrying economic inequality.
Mr. Laude said the Occupy Wall Street movement identifies with the activism that is central to these two works. What he specifically objected to was that the onstage activism was being packaged by a cultural institution in a ''sanitized'' way for ''the consumption of operagoers who are able to attend.'' The protesters were there, he explained, to prod artists and audiences into action.
It is inspiring to see idealistic young people finding common cause with art that grapples with political issues. And the analysis of economic injustice by the protesters could not be more timely.
Yet in a way the Liederabend recital at Juilliard was also a political statement, a kind of rally for humanity. To see fresh-faced, well-trained young artists singing Schumann with such involvement and dedication was deeply affecting. For the people around me, who took such pleasure in this free concert, here was another way to occupy Lincoln Center.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right, a New Dances performance of ''Fortune,'' choreographed by Pam Tanowitz, at the Juilliard School. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAN MELVILLE)
Above, Andrew Carnegie and his wife, Louise. Center, the composer Peter Maxwell Davies and Occupy Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAN MELVILLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); GIFTED EDUCATION (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); OPERA (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (87%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



4 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Which Words Will Live On?

BYLINE: By GRANT BARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: A lexicographer specializing in slang and new words. He is a host of the public radio program ''A Way With Words'' and a vice president of the American Dialect Society.

 BODY:
COLLECTING the past year's words is like sifting one's pockets at the end of a trip. Some things you'll keep, some you'll discard -- the dinner receipt for the expense-account meal vs. the one-peso coin. Each is a reminder of what you did, where you went and whom you were with.
In 10 years, some of last year's words will be relics. We'll think of them the way we now think of the decades-old phrase ''gag me with a spoon.''
Others have already proved their staying power. Who could argue that the new sense of ''occupy'' isn't already a keeper, even starting as it did late in the third quarter of 2011? A movement so well labeled, if not cohesive in thought and action, that its name instantly lent itself to variation and satire. 
We create all this new language, political and otherwise, for a lot of reasons. We're school-yard taunters, looking for the joke, the riff or the gag that will stick. We're novelty-shop fanatics, spending every paycheck in the House of Language on gewgaws and gimcracks and tchotchkes. Below are just a few of the catchwords I've snagged during the last 12 months: Some are oldies that have resurfaced and taken on new life.
53 PERCENTER An American in a household that pays income tax. Coined by conservatives who believe that the economy would improve if those who do not pay income taxes did.
99 PERCENT, 99 PERCENTERS People claimed by the Occupy movement to be at a financial or political disadvantage when compared with the 1 percenters, those who protesters say have too much money and too much political control.
9-9-9 PLAN The proposal by Herman Cain, a former Republican presidential candidate, for a 9 percent flat income tax, a 9 percent business flat tax and a 9 percent national sales tax.
ARAB SPRING Collectively, the popular revolts and protests in Middle Eastern and Arab countries, among them Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Yemen and Syria. Less frequently called Arab Awakening.
AUSTERITY MEASURES Reductions or restrictions on government spending, meant to balance budgets, reduce deficits and meet standards set by intergovernmental lenders.
BASKETBRAWL The fight that broke out between members of the Georgetown Hoyas and the Bayi Rockets during an exhibition basketball game in Beijing.
BATH SALTS The street name for a group of stimulants made illegal this year.
BRONY A man who is a fan of the television cartoon ''My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic.'' Formed from ''bro,'' brother or male friend, and pony.
BUFFETT TAX A proposal that people making more than $1 million a year pay a higher rate of income tax than they do now and more than those who make less. Named for the investor Warren Buffett, who advocates the approach. Also called the Buffett rule.
CLOUD MUSIC Personal digital music collections stored on remote servers so that they may be accessed by all of a person's digital devices. Both Apple and Google introduced cloud music services this year.
CRANKSHAFT The code name used for Osama bin Laden by the Navy Seals team that killed him in Pakistan.
DARK SKY Designates a place free of nighttime light pollution. For example, the island of Sark in the English Channel is a dark-sky island.
DEATHER Someone who doubts that Osama bin Laden was killed by American troops.
DEBT CEILING Not a new term, but now familiar to all: the limit to the amount of money the federal government may borrow.
HUMAN MEGAPHONE A method of amplifying a speaker's words in which everyone who hears them repeats them in unison. Used in the Occupy protests, though not invented there. Also called the people's mike. To activate the human megaphone, a speaker will announce a mike check.
HUMBLEBRAG A complaint, wry remark or self-deprecation that also reveals how famous, rich or important the speaker or writer is. Popularized by the comedian Harris Wittels, a writer for the NBC series ''Parks and Recreation.''
KARDASH A unit of time measuring 72 days. Coined by the musician Weird Al Yankovic in response to the 72-day marriage of Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries.
LEAP SMEAR Adding a few milliseconds each day to a computer's time-keeping. Google's solution for handling leap seconds, which are added to official world time to account for changes in the earth's rotation.
LIKEJACKING Tricking users of a social media site, especially Facebook, into posting spammy content in their accounts or on their pages. Usually activated by clicking a ''like,'' ''fave'' or ''thumbs up'' button.
NYM WARS A public debate about the requirement by some Web sites, especially Google+, that users not use pseudonyms. From the suffix -nym, as used in pseudonym, ultimately from the Greek onuma, for name.
OCCUPY WALL STREET A left-leaning movement protesting wealth inequality and urging more government action against banks and corporations, which are seen by the protesters as being responsible for the current economic downturn. Abbreviated as O.W.S. or just Occupy and extended by replacing ''Wall Street'' with any place name, as in Occupy L.A. or Occupy Toronto. Occupy and occupation have been used in the context of political or labor protests since the 1920s.
PLANKING Posing for a photograph with the body in a stiff prone position, especially in odd situations or places. Similar popular pastimes this year include horsemaning, posing for a two-person picture that makes it look as though a supine headless body is holding a severed head, and Tebowing, kneeling as if praying in the manner of the Denver Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow, with one knee down and one up, and one's head resting on one's fist.
SUPER COMMITTEE A group of 12 lawmakers, 6 Democrats and 6 Republicans, 3 each from the House and the Senate, that tried to make a plan on how to reduce the deficit. Also, the Gang of Six, three Democratic and three Republican senators who worked on reducing the federal government's debt.
TOT MOM Casey Anthony, acquitted of charges of killing her 2-year-old daughter. The term was largely popularized by Nancy Grace, host of her own HLN program.
TWINKLING Silently affirming a speaker by raising one's hands, palms outward, and wiggling the hands and fingers. Similar to a gesture used in American Sign Language as the equivalent of applause. Brought to wider public attention by the Occupy movement (see human megaphone, above) but predates it by many years.
WINNING Used repeatedly and not ironically by the actor Charlie Sheen at the time of his tumultuous departure from ''Two and a Half Men.'' It was quickly taken up as a catchphrase. Related: tiger blood, which Mr. Sheen figuratively used to describe his motivations.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WARD SCHUMAKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (86%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC RADIO (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TAX LAW (69%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (68%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (68%); TAX REFORM (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); SALES TAX (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); BASKETBALL (63%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (50%)

PERSON: HERMAN CAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); TUNISIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



5 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: How Dividends Could Save the Day

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
WHEN the global economy slowed last year, investors looking for reasons to be bullish could at least point to one positive sign: the continued strength of corporate profits.
Even as the pace of economic growth in the United States fell to 1.7 percent in 2011 from 3 percent in 2010, profits among companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed by an estimated 15.8 percent. Revenue, meanwhile, surged by a surprisingly strong 10 percent.
Yet as investors usher in a new year, their faith in the profit outlook is starting to wane -- and for good reason. Corporate earnings are projected to rise only around 4 percent through June, and 8 percent for the full year, according to estimates by S.& P. Capital IQ. That's down from earlier projections of 13 percent growth for 2012. 
The recent adjustments to the predictions were to be expected, said Christine Short, senior manager at S.& P. Capital IQ. ''There's a cloud of uncertainty engulfing Europe,'' she said, ''and analysts don't know how to position their forecasts.''
There are other reasons to be concerned, said John Butters, senior earnings analyst at FactSet, a financial research firm. ''When you look at 2012, the two sectors that are expected to drive growth are financials and technology,'' he said.
Mr. Butters said the modest 2012 growth projection for the overall S.& P. was dependent on financial sector earnings climbing by around 25 percent this year. Last year, banks, brokers and insurers collectively saw their profits rise just 6 percent. The forecast also depends on tech sector profits expanding by around 10 percent this year.
''The question is, do people have a lot of confidence that financial companies will perform so well?'' he asked. As for technology, Mr. Butters pointed out that one tech leader, Oracle, recently reported worse-than-expected revenue growth, which could be a harbinger of the challenges faced by the broader tech sector as well as the general economy.
Technology revenue growth, for instance, is expected to slow to 7 percent this year from 12 percent in 2011. Similarly, sales growth for the entire S.& P. 500 is expected to slow to around 4 percent in 2012, a sign that the global economic slowdown is starting to seep into corporate results. Global gross domestic product growth is expected to slip to 2.7 percent this year, from 3 percent in 2011, according to IHS Global Insight.
So if investors can't rely on strong earnings growth or a rapidly expanding economy, what's left to keep the bulls hopeful?
One possible answer may be dividend growth, market observers say.
''In an environment where economies around the world are slowing, growth is starting to get scarce,'' said Thomas Huber, a portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price, ''and interest rates are so low, it makes sense to focus on companies that can grow their dividends over time.''
Unlike corporate profits, which rebounded to record levels last year, overall dividends paid by domestic companies have yet to recover fully to the highs reached before the global financial crisis. Yet that could change early this year. S.& P. 500 dividends are expected to grow by nearly 11 percent in 2012, said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''The dividend story is good and should continue to be good,'' he said.
Yes, there is always the possibility that companies could reverse course and cut their payouts to shareholders. ''But if companies cut, forget dividends -- that's a sign that the economy is really shot,'' he said.
MR. SILVERBLATT says one reason for continued strength in dividends is that companies are sitting on record amounts of cash. And ''companies have been pounding their chests about the importance of dividends, yet the dividend payout ratio is a little under 30 percent,'' he said, referring to the percentage of earnings that corporations are passing along to shareholders as dividends.
Historically, he said, the payout ratio has hovered around 50 percent for S.& P. 500 companies.
Low interest rates are another reason that investors are likely to focus on dividend growth. Since 1962, the dividend yield of the S.& P. 500 has averaged about 40 percent of the yield on 10-year Treasury notes. Today, however, the S.& P. is paying more, dividend-wise, than 10-year Treasuries.
In such an environment, market strategists say, investors tend to lean toward dividend-paying stocks. And if corporate profit growth slows as expected, that interest will only grow.
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN CRONIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INSURANCE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



6 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Study of Waterways Stirs Debate on Roles In the Region's Future

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN. 
klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
A new Army Corps of Engineersstudy of Chicago-area waterways has stirred the debate over whether to sever the connection between Lake Michigan and inland waterways that were created by the construction of canals a century ago. The study, released on Dec. 7, is part of the Corps's nearly decade-long process aimed at preventing invasive species, including voracious Asian carp, from spreading between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River ecosystems.
But how to achieve that environmental goal has become bound up with varying predictions of what the future of shipping in the Midwest, and even farther South, will be. 
Advocates of separating the waterway system from Lake Michigan said that the study bolstered their case because it found that in 2008 only 12 percent of Chicago-waterways cargo moved between Chicago-area waterways and the lake, the great majority of it to and from industries in nearby northwest Indiana. Opponents have argued that closing off the lake would block a vital shipping route.
Experts with varying positions on the Asian carp debate said that the study's findings suggested that revival of the waterways depends on new investment and an updated vision for their commercial role in the future.
The Army Corps study said that in 2008 cargo shipments -- which it describes as ''flat or declining'' since 1994 -- were about 26 percent coal, 18 percent aggregates like sand and crushed rock, 17 percent material related to the iron and steel industries and the rest other commodites like fuel, chemicals and minerals.
Those commodities are affected by uncertain economic and manufacturing trends. If the city's two coal plants shut down or convert to another fuel source because of environmental regulations, for example, coal shipments could plummet. The coal-fired State Line power station in northwest Indiana is scheduled to close by 2014.
Between 1994 and 2009 iron and steel shipments on the waterways declined an average of 6.6 percent annually, the study said, as the industries shrank.
Some experts hope that renewed manufacturing in the region could mean more waterway traffic, but others say that factories producing specialized items like wind-turbine blades are more likely to ship components and finished products by train and truck. They noted that barges are better suited for bulk raw materials like coal, road salt and sand.
Some planners and environmental groups argue that a new intermodal facility on Chicago's South Side -- where barge cargo would be loaded onto trucks or trains for delivery to industries in Indiana -- would allow the waterways to be disconnected from Lake Michigan.
But it's not that simple, Jody Peacock, the corporate affairs director for Ports of Indiana, said.
''It seems so close you could just pop it right over there,'' he said. ''But these are huge quantities we're talking about. It could cost more to go that last few miles by truck than it costs to float it across the country on barges.''
A wild card in the debate is the expansion of the Panama Canal, scheduled to be completed in 2014. Some experts think an increase in international shipping on the Gulf Coast will mean opportunities for building or expanding ports along the Mississippi River and Chicago-area waterways, as more imported cargo moves up the Mississippi and more grain and other Midwestern commodities are exported from Gulf Coast ports.
John Vickerman, president of a Virginia port-planning firm, said the Panama Canal expansion could mean a substantial influx of cargo into the Chicago area, assuming Gulf Coast ports are deepened so they can accept the massive ships that will pass through the expanded canal.
He envisioned new ports in the Chicago area equipped to handle shipping containers, which are not now moved on local waterways or the Great Lakes.
Josh Ellis, project manager for the Metropolitan Planning Council, said the possibility of new ports to handle shipping containers could fit in with continuing improvements to Chicago's rail system to relieve congestion.
''If you're going to start tinkering with the waterway system to create a barrier for invasive species, it would be really nice to improve the region's transportation system as you did it,'' he said. ''But I've yet to see any defensible data on how much cargo of what kinds and from what destinations will likely be passing through the region in the next 20, 30, 40, or 50 years.''
Jim LaBelle, vice president of the civic planning group Metropolis Strategies, said the Panama Canal's possible role in reviving local shipping is ''certainly worth paying some attention to, but it's uncertain yet where the economics would go.''
Two weeks after the cargo study, the Army Corps released another report, listing 39 species of fish, mollusks, algae and plants that could soon migrate between Chicago-area waterways and Lake Michigan and wreak ecological havoc. It also listed possible methods of preventing their spread, including physically separating the waterways or blocking or killing organisms with chemicals, heat, ''bubble curtains'' or low-oxygen zones.
Dave Wethington, project manager for the Army Corps in Chicago, said the Corps would run computerized models to determine the economic and logistical effects of each option, with a final report due in 2015.
On Jan. 31, the Great Lakes Commission and the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative -- partnerships of United States and Canadian mayors and other government officials -- will release their own study with proposals to revamp the waterways to block invasive species, stimulate cargo transport and recreational use and improve water quality.
''By looking at a barrier, flood control, water quality and transportation at the same time, you can really come up with a better solution'' than by dealing solely with invasive species, said David Ullrich, executive director of the partnership. ''We're trying to pull this together in a much more integrated fashion than ever has been done before -- we don't think we have the luxury of looking at this piecemeal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The tugboat Tanner on the Calumet River in 2010. The future of the waterways surrounding Chicago are under debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BONNIE TRAFELET FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (93%); LAKES (91%); ARMIES (90%); SHIPMENTS (87%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (86%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); RIVERS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (75%); WIND ENERGY (75%); TRENDS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); TRAINS (72%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); COAL MARKETS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); WIND POWER PLANTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (94%); GREAT LAKES (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



7 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Katherine Beirne, Brian Fallon

 BODY:
Katherine Noel Beirne and Brian Edward Fallon Jr. were married Saturday by the Rev. Robert T. Begin, a Roman Catholic priest, at St. Colman Catholic Church in Cleveland. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fallon work in Washington for the Senate Democratic Policy and Communications Center, for which the bride is the staff director and the bridegroom the communications director. He is also the press spokesman for Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the center's chairman, and for the Senate Democrats.
The bride, 35, graduated summa cum laude from the University of Notre Dame. She received a master's in comparative ethnic conflict from Queen's University in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and a master's in comparative politics from the London School of Economics, both of which she attended as a Marshall scholar. She is a daughter of Victoria Beirne and John Beirne of Rocky River, Ohio.
The bridegroom, 30, graduated cum laude from Harvard. He is a son of Colleen Fallon and Brian Fallon of Methuen, Mass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



8 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE OSCARS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: Don't-Miss Movies You Probably Missed

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
Cold Weather
Directed By Aaron Katz
Like many of today's best American independent filmmakers, Aaron Katz makes a virtue of modesty. His first two features, ''Dance Party USA'' and ''Quiet City,'' founding works of the mumblecore quasi-movement, are no-budget immersions in the ambivalent lives of their young protagonists. But Mr. Katz's diffidence is deceptive. Beneath the laid-back drift of his movies are real ambition and depth, a poetic sense of place and a delicate grasp of character.
Initially at least, his third feature, ''Cold Weather,'' calls to mind other recent quarter-life dramas of indecision and gentle self-absorption. Doug (Cris Lankenau, above, with Robyn Rikoon), a forensic science dropout and Sherlock Holmes buff, has moved in with his sister, Gail (Trieste Kelly Dunn ), in Portland, Ore. (Mr. Katz's hometown). But just as the film is beginning to sketch the dynamics between these adult siblings, odd elements creep in, as if from another movie: a vanished femme fatale, an abruptly evacuated motel room, a missing suitcase of money, a eureka moment in a library, clues leading to a sleazy Web site and what may be the only palm tree in Portland, even a stakeout and a chase. 
Down to its title ''Cold Weather'' acknowledges that the romance of place is central to the appeal of detective fiction. (Think of Holmes's London or Philip Marlowe's Los Angeles.) Andrew Reed's resourceful cinematography soaks in the atmospheric gloom of the Pacific Northwest, and Keegan DeWitt's striking pizzicato score enhances the lightly ominous mood.
''Cold Weather'' thrives on the strange tension and the even stranger harmony between mumblecore naturalism and genre artifice. There's an element of self-consciousness to the mystery plot -- Doug procures a Holmesian pipe as a thinking aid (though he forgets to get tobacco) -- but Mr. Katz also takes it seriously, keeping the stakes low and the twists plausible. Far from a beside-the-point MacGuffin, the very presence of mystery suggests a transformative way of taking in the world. In other words, it's an integral part of Doug's rite of passage as he goes from looking inward to looking out, seeing new realms of possibility in the people and places around him.
-- -- -- --
House Of Pleasures
Directed By Bertrand Bonello
The French term for brothel is ''maison close'' -- literally closed house -- and Bertrand Bonello's ''House of Pleasures,'' a sumptuous drama about the lives of courtesans in fin de siecle Paris, takes this expression at face value by unfolding almost entirely within the upholstered walls of an upscale bordello called L'Apollonide.
Despite its opium-haze ambience and luxuriant imagery -- the gifted cinematographer is Josee Deshaies, Mr. Bonello's wife -- the film remains clear-eyed about the situation of its characters, indentured servants who incur mounting debts to a generally sympathetic madam (Noemie Lvovsky). They may share a sisterly camaraderie, and some have escaped crueler fates, but for these women the threat of violence and disease is ever present -- and only getting worse.
The act of savagery that opens and haunts the movie, perpetrated against the prostitute the others call ''the Jewess'' (Alice Barnole ), amounts to the original sin of the 20th century. Mr. Bonello situates his film at a precise moment in time: what two title cards describe as ''the twilight of the 19th century'' and ''the dawn of the 20th century.'' The patrons of L'Apollonide casually invoke the scandals and fads of the day: the Dreyfus Affair, H. G. Wells's ''War of the Worlds,'' the brand-new Paris Metro.
But time is always in complicated, dreamlike flux in ''House of Pleasures,'' which circles back and forward and sometimes folds in on itself. A period film reflects not only the time in which it is set but also the historical understanding of the time in which it is made, and Mr. Bonello closes the gap between then and now with, among other devices, anachronistic soundtrack selections: vintage Atlanta R&B over the credits, ''Nights in White Satin'' for the emotional climax.
At once bracing and romantic, this evocation of an irretrievable past crystallizes a simple truth that has eluded so many other costume dramas: what we think of as history was, for those who experienced it, nothing more or less than life.
-- -- -- --
Nostalgia For the Light
Directed By Patricio Guzman
The Atacama Desert, a cloudless, craggy plateau on the north Chilean coast, is one of the most arid places on the planet, but it proves to be fertile ground for the filmmaker Patricio Guzman and his career-long project on remembrance as a moral imperative. Since his landmark three-part documentary, ''The Battle of Chile'' (1978), Mr. Guzman has been a steadfast chronicler of the occluded horrors of the Augusto Pinochet regime, rallying against what he sees as the convenient amnesia of his still-traumatized country.
His latest essay film, ''Nostalgia for the Light,'' derives both its metaphysical and its political force from the associations that it forges between those who spend their days digging into the barren Atacama earth and those who spend their nights gazing up at the crystalline sky.
Its altitude and climate make this edge-of-the-world landscape a rich repository of history in more ways than one. Astronomers, exploiting the transparency of the atmosphere, study unthinkably distant constellations whose light has traveled for eons before reaching us. Archeologists uncover petroglyphs of millennia-old civilizations and ruins of 19th-century mines, preserved in the humidity-free air. And, seeking traces of a more recent but no less shrouded era, women whose loved ones were executed and supposedly buried in the desert during Pinochet's murderous reign comb the pitiless expanse of sand and rock for human remains.
All these quests, as Mr. Guzman observes in his ruminative narration, are attempts to reckon with the past, on vastly different scales. The wonder of ''Nostalgia for the Light'' is how it entwines and juxtaposes these perspectives, shifting telescopically from the immensity of the universe to the vagaries of human memory, reminding us that the calcium in the stars is the very material in our bones. Ultimately it's a movie that obeys what Mr. Guzman calls memory's ''gravitational force.'' Here, as in many of his films, the past exerts a pull, but it also illuminates the present, and our obligations in the here and now.
-- -- -- --
Attack The Block
Directed By Joe Cornish
The council estate -- as the housing project is called in Britain -- has always loomed large in British cinema, a brutalist emblem of working-class life in any number of kitchen-sink dramas. This last year alone it served as a backdrop in movies as different as ''Tyrannosaur'' (a Gothic tragedy), ''The Arbor'' (a documentary) and ''Weekend'' (a gay romance).
But this setting has perhaps never been reimagined with the nerve and verve of Joe Cornish's feature directing debut, ''Attack the Block.'' Here an imposing but run-down South London tower block -- ''the endz,'' in the parlance of the local teenagers -- comes under siege by furry aliens with glow-in-the-dark fangs. ''Attack the Block'' invites comparisons with another 2011 kids-versus-aliens romp, J. J. Abrams's Steven Spielberg homage, ''Super 8.'' But this brisk, scrappy action-adventure owes much less to Mr. Spielberg's nostalgic child's-eye view (Mr. Cornish, as it happens, was a writer of Mr. Spielberg's ''Adventures of Tintin'') than to filmmakers like Joe Dante and John Carpenter, who spike their B-movie thrills with tongue-in-cheek subversions and offhand social commentary.
Mr. Cornish complicates viewer sympathies by opening with a mugging. A few teenage hooligans, black and mixed race, hold up a young white woman at knifepoint. These thugs turn out to be the film's heroes (their brooding leader, Moses, is played by John Boyega , above in foreground, surely a future star), and their incensed victim is forced into an uneasy alliance with them when an interspecies turf war breaks out.
It's too glib to suggest, as some have, that this picture of turmoil in multicultural Britain presaged last summer's London riots. But while ''Attack the Block'' never strains for relevance, it shows a keen awareness of its milieu: how race, class and gender govern life in these parts. The way the kids respond to the extraterrestrial threat -- with self-sufficient bravado -- has everything to do with what they've learned to expect. ''Feels like just another day in the endz,'' one of them says. The secret weapon of this alien-invasion movie is not special effects but social reality.
-- -- -- --
Historias Extraordinarias (Extraordinary Stories)
Directed By Mariano Llinas
The most salient thing about the addictive, preposterously ambitious Argentinian film ''Historias Extraordinarias'' (''Extraordinary Stories'') is that it runs more than four hours: a thicket of stories within stories that follow three main characters over 18 chapters and dozens of subplots involving scores of secondary figures, locations on two continents, multiple cross-pollinated genres, telenovela-ready cliffhangers and a live lion. The second most salient thing is that this elaborate superproduction is proudly homemade: written and directed by Mariano Llinas, right, who also co-starred and composed the de facto theme song, all for the grand sum of $50,000.
The marathon duration is crucial for a movie about the Scheherazade-like seduction of an endlessly unfolding tale. And the microscopic budget helps demonstrate Mr. Llinas's evident belief that ingenious storytelling is often economical, combining minimum information with maximum insinuation.(Completed in 2008 and the subject of a cult following at home -- it played for more than a year at a Buenos Aires cinematheque -- the movie received a belated New York run last spring.)
Scenes with barely any dialogue are blanketed in a conspiratorial voice-over that sometimes wryly anticipates the action (''This is what's going to happen'') and sometimes subtly undermines it. The three main characters, known only as X, Z and H, never meet, but their circumstances come to mirror one another. One suddenly goes from witness to perpetrator of a crime he doesn't understand; another is a bureaucrat piecing together the secret life of his dead predecessor; the third gets a job photographing riverside stone markers that someone else seems bent on destroying.
All three, given the task of making narrative sense of situations that lack obvious meaning, are effectively acting out an allegory on the uses and abuses of fiction. Drawing on Argentina's rich literary heritage -- the forking paths of Borges, the hopscotch patterns of Julio Cortazar -- Mr. Llinas pulls off the rarest of cinematic feats. ''Historias Extraordinarias'' is a movie that instills in its characters and viewers alike a deep hunger for stories.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IFC FILMS
CAROLE BETHUEL/IFC MIDNIGHT
ICARUS FILMS
LIAM DANIEL/SCREEN GEMS
 CINEMA TROPICAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); FORENSICS (73%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) OREGON, USA (90%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



9 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: As Sponsorships Dwindle, Track Officials Loosen the Rules for Athletes

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
Lauren Fleshman arrived at the start of the New York City Marathon in November as a human billboard, wearing temporary tattoos that advertised an energy-bar company she founded with her husband.
Race officials intervened, telling Fleshman the tattoos violated marketing rules set forth by track and field's world governing body. Hastily, the tattoos were rubbed off with alcohol pads. But she had made a point.
''It's crazy you don't own your own skin,'' Fleshman, of Eugene, Ore., said after the race.
A new international rule that goes into effect Sunday will give professional track and field athletes greater opportunity to display logos on their uniforms. And, they hope, it will enhance their chances of attracting corporate sponsorships to help finance their careers in a sport struggling for visibility and credibility. 
The rule, which permits a second corporate logo in addition to a clothing/shoe-company logo on singlets, is viewed as a welcome first step. Still, many seem confused by what will be allowed at various competitions, where the logo rule can be tightened or relaxed. And an immediate brightening of the sport's dimming presence is not expected.
Track and field will be the centerpiece of the 2012 London Olympics, but its primacy has eroded at the elite level outside the Summer Games. Engaging East-West rivalries disappeared with the collapse of communism, and corrosive doping scandals undermined the sport's credibility.
The global economic downturn also has made it more difficult to attract sponsorships while widening the income gap between the sport's superstars and its less visible strivers.
Adam Nelson of the United States, a two-time Olympic silver medalist in the shot put, once auctioned himself on eBay and secured an endorsement with a medical technology firm, but it was a one-month deal worth $12,000, not a long-term investment, according to USA Track and Field.
In 2009, after his contract with Nike expired, the French pole-vaulter Romain Mesnil underscored his plight by appearing in a video that made it seem as if he were running naked with a pole through the streets of Paris.
The more permissive logo rule ''is a step in the right direction, but the bigger issue is that we need a greater number of sponsors,'' said Ray Flynn, a prominent agent. ''Outside the shoe companies, there have not been a lot of companies wanting to get involved in the sport.''
Usain Bolt, the Jamaican sprinting star, aspires to be the first track and field athlete to earn $10 million a year. That is a hefty income by most standards, but relative pocket change compared with the $40-million-plus that the soccer superstar Lionel Messi is said to earn yearly in salary and endorsements.
Top marathon runners, who usually compete twice a year, can earn hundreds of thousands of dollars in appearance, prize and bonus money for a victory in New York, Boston, London, Chicago or Berlin. But, unlike professional football, basketball and baseball players, who rely on collective bargaining, track and field athletes compete -- and negotiate -- as individuals.
Like Bolt, Stephanie Brown Trafton of the United States is an Olympic champion. She won gold in the discus at the 2008 Beijing Games. But she competes in a relatively obscure event. Her basic Nike contract, she said, pays her $25,000 a year with an additional $25,000 to $30,000 available in performance bonuses -- the equivalent of an entry-level salary in engineering, for which she holds a degree.
As meager as Brown Trafton's income is for a professional athlete, she and many others with salaried shoe contracts seem unlikely to benefit immediately from the new logo rule. Companies like Nike, Adidas and Reebok, which provide the financial spine of the sport by spending tens of millions of dollars a year, want exclusivity to protect their brands. They will very likely prohibit a second logo on singlets or offer smaller contracts to share space, except perhaps for select superstars with clout, athletes, agents and track officials said.
Athletes with shoe-company sponsorships will ''have to determine whether they want to give that up to have multiple sponsorships,'' Brown Trafton said. ''Most will take the main sponsor. It will pay more.''
Nike did not respond to a request for comment. Chris McGuire, the head of sports marketing for Adidas America, said in a statement, ''We support athletes and recognize the benefit partners and sponsorship can provide to support track and field athletes' training.''
Eventually, athletes hope the inclusion of a second corporate logo on their uniforms will give them greater bargaining power.
''I love Nike, but at the same time it's important to remember that athletes are not employees of shoe companies; they're independent contractors,'' said Nick Symmonds, the United States' top 800-meter runner. ''It hurts my leverage if the shoe company has a monopoly over advertising dollars.''
Be careful what you wish for, said Mark Wetmore, a prominent agent. ''If the shoe companies went away, you could have 100 logos and nobody would be as well off as they are today,'' he said.
For now, athletes on the margins -- those who have shoe contracts that provide only apparel or performance bonuses, or who have no endorsement contracts at all -- could best take advantage of the new logo rule with sponsorships that pay a few hundred to a few thousand dollars.
Paul Litchfield, a second-tier American pole-vaulter, has tried to distinguish himself by competing in a uniform that resembles a tuxedo. But his creativity has not translated into endorsements. Last summer, with $5.59 in his checking account, $378.87 in savings and $4,501.35 in credit card debt, according to his Web site, Litchfield sold T-shirts to finance his trip to the national championships.
In late December, a friend paid for a tank of gas so he could drive from Northern California to attend a pole-vaulting camp in Southern California.
''I've never even gotten a pair of free shoes,'' said Litchfield, who finished 10th at the 2008 Olympic trials.
He noted ruefully that athletes like himself who might benefit most from an additional logo on their uniforms were also those least likely to be shown on television at meets.
''What sponsor is going to give you money to be on your shirt if no one sees it?'' Litchfield said. ''You might as well put it on your pajamas.''
Ben Bruce competed at the 2011 world track and field championships for the United States in the steeplechase. And while his affiliation with the Nike-sponsored Oregon Track Club provided coaching, housing and health insurance, Bruce said he could never persuade Nike to offer him a contract beyond performance bonuses.
So, with the Olympics and his marriage approaching later this year, Bruce left the Oregon Track Club, set up a training base in Flagstaff, Ariz., and recently signed with a new agent, Flynn, in hopes of attracting a corporate sponsor.
''Maybe a little group goes to Starbucks and we work 20 hours a week and they pay us like managers and we put a Starbucks logo on our uniforms,'' Bruce said, echoing an Olympic work program formerly sponsored by Home Depot. ''Stuff like that could be a huge turnaround.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Romain Mesnil, above, made a video in hopes of landing a new sponsor. Lauren Fleshman was barred from wearing temporary promotional tattoos in the New York City Marathon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YOUTUBE
 JESSE THOMAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RUNNING (90%); ATHLETES (89%); MARATHONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); FOOTWEAR (77%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); SOCCER (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



10 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: 2011: The Year of the Turndown

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
EVEN as 2011 was a year of stable prices and steady sales in Manhattan real estate, it may go down in history as a banner year for co-op and condo board vetoes.
Real estate brokers, lawyers and property managers all said boards had significantly stepped up their financial scrutiny of prospective buyers in the last year. Condo boards technically cannot reject prospective buyers, but brokers say some condo and co-op boards now use delaying tactics and requests for further documentation as a strategy to drive away certain buyers.
It was a year in which many real estate rules seemed to have been turned on their heads. Condos behaved like co-ops. Buyers with mortgages were looked at more favorably than all-cash buyers. Why? The reasoning goes that since mortgages are so hard to come by, anyone who gets one has been thoroughly vetted by the bank.
It also became much more common for buildings -- co-ops and condos alike -- to ask buyers to put large sums of money in escrow as a way of guaranteeing that they would not default on their monthly carrying charges. 
Many buildings asked buyers to put six months' to two years' worth of maintenance into escrow. But brokers also said that in these uncertain financial times, some buildings had asked for escrow of as much as 10 years' worth of maintenance. ''That sounds to me like a nice way of saying goodbye,'' said Paul Gottsegen, the director of Halstead Management, which manages more than 200 buildings.
One such case was handled by Warburg Realty. Frederick Peters, Warburg's president, said the amount requested for escrow, which was in the hundreds of thousands of dollars, ''seemed crazy to me,'' but the buyers agreed and the deal went through.
Mr. Peters said he did not know why the board had been so concerned about the buyers. ''We don't get to ask those questions,'' he said, adding that the buyers were a young married couple with parental guarantors who were ''very financially solid.''
Mr. Peters said Warburg used to see only a few such deals in a given year, but handled more than 20 in 2011. ''That's a lot of deals,'' he said. ''But if escrow is a way for a board to get comfortable with a buyer, I'd much rather have that than a board turndown.''
Steven D. Sladkus, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer, says most buyers who have the wherewithal will agree to escrow accounts, ''because it's still their money and in most cases, they'll get it all back if they pay faithfully for a year or two years.'' In some cases, though, buildings ask to maintain the escrow indefinitely.
But Jessica Cohen, an executive vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, says some buyers take offense when they get an escrow request. ''They see it as the board considering them unfit to buy without an insurance policy,'' she said.
Ms. Cohen estimated that about a third of her deals last year involved an escrow request, so she now routinely mentions the possibility to all her buyers. ''It's better to let them know it's a possibility rather than have it come up as a surprise at the point of a board approval and risk having the deal fall apart,'' she said.
Brokers and property managers said that these days, deals that used to take a month can take two to three months, as boards request a second or third year's worth of tax returns and other financial documents or an escrow account. Boards have also become much more selective in other ways.
''People that would have passed boards two years ago, offering to pay all cash, aren't passing now,'' said Leslie Modell Rosenthal, a managing director at Warburg. Some condos now frown on investors, she said, even though that category of buyer has helped sustain condos for years. Other buildings that routinely approved purchases involving parental guarantors are no longer doing so.
''Even if there isn't an outright rejection,'' Ms. Modell Rosenthal said, ''some boards will drag their feet to the point where the buyer gives up and goes away.'' Boards are not required to give their reasons for turning down an applicant, but brokers say it is often because they feel he or she has too much debt, not enough liquidity or not enough of a job history.
Although some high-priced exclusive buildings have sought buyers with liquid assets of two to three times the purchase price of an apartment, buildings have typically expected them to have about two years' worth of mortgage and maintenance in liquid assets, or $50,000 to $100,000, depending on the size of the apartment. But today, brokers say, many more buildings want buyers to have several hundred thousand dollars in liquid assets.
Ms. Modell Rosenthal said she worked with a 28-year-old buyer recently who had been turned down by an Upper East Side co-op board, she suspects because he was a single young man and his parents were paying all cash for the apartment.
''He was a truly lovely young man, and he had a three-year job history,'' she said, ''but he had no liquidity.'' She decided to resubmit his board package after getting character references from his former neighbors, and the board eventually approved him. ''I knew he was the right candidate for the building,'' she said. ''I just had to educate people that he was the right candidate. It shows that if you go back with enough ammunition, you can turn it around.''
Condos as a rule cannot reject buyers, though they can exercise a ''right of first refusal,'' which means the condo board can block the sale by opting to buy the property. But since many don't have the financial reserves to buy apartments, they use stalling tactics more typically associated with co-ops.
''The way they flex their muscles is to ask for documentation,'' said Dan Wurtzel, president of Cooper Square Realty, which manages about 450 buildings. He said more condos now had very specific lists of required information, similar to criteria in a co-op board package. ''If a purchaser doesn't complete that list,'' Mr. Wurtzel said, ''the application can be considered incomplete. And our instructions are: we don't turn it over to the board until it's complete and we have all the documentation.''
Property managers said that some co-ops and condos were turning down or holding off applicants not just on the substance of the application but on its presentation. Mr. Gottsegen, of Halstead, says some boards request colored dividers, numbered tabs and information placed in a specific order according to a table of contents. ''If the package isn't in the exact form they've asked for,'' he said, ''they're rejecting it, or at the very least are not happy about it.''
Brokers said they had mixed feelings about the heightened scrutiny and tougher standards being enforced by building boards.
''There's no question that the financial vigilance of co-op boards contributed to the stability of the Manhattan real estate market during the big economic downturn,'' said Mr. Peters, of Warburg, pointing to much lower rates of foreclosures and defaults than elsewhere. But this level of vigilance is sometimes unnecessary, he said, ''and in some cases, quite detrimental to the seller,'' especially if a buyer is rejected and there are no guarantees that a second buyer would be willing to pay the same price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



11 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing Waterfront On East Side

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
ONE by one, the announcements have come. Of a deal to convert Pier 42, located between the Williamsburg and Manhattan Bridges, from a storage facility into open space. Of design guidelines for Waterside Pier, a former Consolidated Edison site along the East River in Midtown, released in December by the Municipal Art Society. Of the opening of Pier 15, a block below South Street Seaport, which offers double-decker views of the East River.
These are but a sampling of the steady drumbeat of news items -- real estate deals, park restorations, reclaimed piers and new esplanades -- that herald the remaking of Manhattan's East Side waterfront. When all the pieces fall into place, planners and city officials say, there will be a nearly continuous ribbon of parkland and recreational space along the East Side. New Yorkers will no longer have to go west to enjoy the waterfront. 
''There isn't any doubt that the East Side has lagged behind the extraordinary development of Hudson River Park,'' said Vin Cipolla, president of the Municipal Art Society, a nonprofit organization devoted to planning and preservation. ''But the vision for the East River Greenway is coming into more tangible view. It's time.''
Though the East River may lack the grandeur of the Hudson, there is much to savor: tugs cruise the choppy waters, a sandy beach fans out beneath the Brooklyn Bridge, the lights of the historic Pepsi-Cola sign streak the river red at night, the scent of salt hangs on the breeze.
For decades, however, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, as well as the river's industrial legacy and the sprawling United Nations campus, has kept those pleasures mostly at a remove.
Now, said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, ''a golden age for the East River'' is at hand, and even skeptical community leaders are feeling celebratory.
''It's sort of like, 'Wow, things are actually happening,' '' said Mark P. Thompson, chairman of Community Board 6, which represents the area from 59th Street to 14th Street, east of Lexington Avenue. ''Piece by piece, our waterfront is finally being recognized and turned into something people can use.''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's 20-year plan for the waterfront, unveiled in March, made the East River a priority, and new East River ferry service to Brooklyn and Queens has proved to be wildly popular, attracting twice as many riders as were projected. But the most significant milestone came in October, when city and state officials agreed to a land deal involving the United Nations that could pay for a new 22-block East River esplanade.
The deal lays out a complex set of transactions that would allow the United Nations to build a tower on part of a playground in east Midtown in exchange for $73 million and a replacement park. It would also unlock other financing for the esplanade, which would stretch from East 38th to East 60th Street, filling in what is now the biggest gap in the 32-mile Greenway around Manhattan.
The United Nations has yet to agree to the terms, but it has long been thought to want the deal, and is in negotiations with the city.
''The table has been set, and now the U.N. will have to come onboard,'' said Adrian Benepe, the commissioner of the city's Parks and Recreation Department. ''I learned long ago in government never to promise anything unless you know the park is opening the next day, but things are moving in the right direction.''
A stroll along the East River from Wall Street to Midtown reveals spots where access to the river remains obstructed by sanitation and utility structures, as well as parking and private development.
Some city officials and community leaders acknowledge that the East Side is unlikely to match the West Side in terms of amenities. There are not as many piers left along the East River to serve as sites for skate parks, playgrounds and restaurants. Nor is there as much land between the highway and the water, crimping the potential for parkland. Another issue is the proximity of the F.D.R. Drive, which can be deafening.
Still, impediments are being removed with speed. State Senator Daniel L. Squadron and Senator Charles E. Schumer, both Democrats, announced in mid-November that they had obtained $14 million from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to convert Pier 42, which now supports an empty warehouse, into open space. The money should cover the costs of shoring up the pier and demolishing the 600-foot-long shed on the site. Turning the four-acre pier into a park would cost tens of millions of dollars more, but Mr. Squadron called the initial investment ''a foot in the door.''
The pier will expand the southern end of East River Park, which runs from East 12th Street to Montgomery Street. At more than 45 acres, the park is the largest parcel of parkland on the river. The parks department is finishing a $98 million restoration of the park, where an esplanade almost collapsed a decade ago after marine borers chewed through its wooden pilings.
''East River Park has always suffered from having a narrow and undistinguished entrance,'' Mr. Benepe said. ''Pier 42 would be a huge boon. It's something we've coveted for a long time, but we never had the money to do it.''
Farther south, in addition to opening Pier 15, the Economic Development Corporation has started preliminary work on Pier 35, just north of Rutgers Slip, and plans to open that to the public in 2013. Between those two piers is an esplanade that the city eventually plans to upgrade with new lighting and sleek wooden furniture, including bar stools and chaise longues. And construction is under way on a half-mile portion of the East River Waterfront Esplanade, from the tip of Lower Manhattan to Wall Street.
On a warm November afternoon, office workers, residents and tourists flocked to the first two-block section of the esplanade, which opened in July, between Wall Street and Maiden Lane.
''I had to get out of the office,'' said Robert DiBarba, an information technology executive with a nearby bank, who was enjoying a red velvet cupcake amid the cry of gulls and the thrum of ferry engines. ''It's a good view.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: A Green Strip: A number of projects are under way or planned to extend parkland and esplanades along the East River. When completed, there will be a nearly continuous strip along the East Side, running south to the Battery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BEACHES (65%); FERRIES (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



12 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; CRITICS' PICKS OF 2011; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Making Sense of a More Sensible Year

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
1. Audi A7
2. Chrysler 300 and Dodge Charger
3. Jeep Wrangler
4. Ford Mustang Boss 302
5. Chevrolet Volt
6. Dodge Durango
7. Ford F-150 EcoBoost
8. Audi TT RS
9. Mercedes-Benz SLK350
10. Chevrolet Camaro Convertible 
1. AUDI A7 ($60,125, $68,630 as tested) That this
four-passenger five-door is largely based on the A6
sedan (four doors, five passengers), yet costs almost
50 percent more, seems to matter little. Quite
simply, the A7 is the loveliest hatchback ever.
2. CHRYSLER 300 AND DODGE CHARGER (base 300
$27,995; base Charger $26,320; various models
tested from $31,995 to $50,260) With the arrival of
these closely related, tastefully redesigned new
flagships, there is hope that large, rear-drive, 8-cylinder
sedans from Detroit can indeed survive until
the next Ice Age.
3. JEEP WRANGLER ( $24,825 as tested) Introduced
with no fanfare, the latest Wrangler is the sleeper
hit of the year. A new Pentastar V-6 transforms the
venerable S.U.V.'s performance, and handling enhancements now allow it to navigate paved roads
without inducing nausea.
4. FORD MUSTANG BOSS 302 ($40,995, as tested
$48,100) Horsepower: 444. Highway fuel economy:
26 m.p.g. Acceleration from 0 to 60 miles per hour:
3.9 seconds (compared with 6.9 for the 1970 model).
It is, hands down, the best Mustang ever.
5. CHEVROLET VOLT ($43,700 as tested) Once derided
by some (including this writer) as automotive
vaporware, the extended-range Volt plug-in hybrid
finally arrived, and it more or less fulfilled its original
promise: 40 miles on electricity alone, another
300 with an assist from its gas engine.
6. DODGE DURANGO ($29,845, as tested $41,795) The
Dodge S.U.V. is proof that a nag can become a thoroughbred.
The new version is so enjoyable that it
deserves a new label rather than a model name associated
with spotty reliability, dismal quality and
ruinous depreciation.
7. FORD F-150 ECOBOOST ($41,865 as tested) Does
some small measure of sanity still exist amid the
excesses of design and performance in the pickup
market? The surprising sales success of Ford's
sensible new version of the F-150, with the powerful
but efficient EcoBoost V-6 engine, suggests that
it does.
8. AUDI TT RS ($57,725) Rated on a scale of power
output per liter of engine displacement, the TT RS,
with a 2.5 in-line 5 blasting out 360 horsepower,
ranks among the most potent sports cars in the
world. That it offers such performance for around
$58,000 ranks it as a relative bargain.
9. MERCEDES-BENZ SLK350 ($55,675, as tested
$65,465) Though the SLK loses in price and performance
comparisons to the aforementioned TT
RS, this lavishly impractical roadster (with optional
Magic Sky panorama roof) makes my list on its
sex appeal alone.
10. CHEVROLET CAMARO CONVERTIBLE ($31,000)
The Camaro convertible provides much-appreciated
relief from the claustrophobia-inducing coupe.
It offers style and performance (the base V-6 is especially
satisfying) that buyers seem to prefer
over the less expensive Mustang.
Fiat Fumbles, Honda Bumbles
MARKETING MISSTEPS OF THE YEAR Sales of the
adorable Fiat 500 were one of the year's biggest
disappointments. It couldn't have helped that the
car was introduced before many Fiat dealerships
were open. Then it was revealed that commercials
featuring the car's celebrity spokeswoman, Jennifer
Lopez, had employed a stunt double to drive
through her old neighborhood in the Bronx. Next:
J. Lo fumbled as she tried to open the car's door in
a live television appearance during the American
Music Awards. Such fumbles had repercussions:
the head of the Fiat brand in North America, Laura
Soave, lost her job.
WHAT WERE THEY THINKING STYLING AWARD The
last-generation Honda Odyssey was handsome.
The new one strikes me as the most egregious
minivan styling mash-up since the 2004 Nissan
Quest.
CHARISMA BYPASS AWARD The longer I test-drove
the new Subaru Outback, the less I enjoyed it.
What happened to the fun, character and, yes,
even the charisma that once made this car special?
DISAPPOINTMENT OF THE YEAR AWARD If Honda
set out to test how much new cars can be dumbeddown
before Americans finally balk at buying
them, its latest Civic seems to have found the inflection
point.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY AUDI OF AMERICA) (AU1)
 THOROUGHBRED: Ford Mustang Boss 302, making the original an uncompetitive memory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD MOTOR) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); AUDI AG (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); NSU (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



13 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PERSONAL JOURNEYS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2001 words

HEADLINE: A Quick Shot of Peace, on a Budget

BYLINE: By SUSAN GREGORY THOMAS

 BODY:
LATE in November I arrived at the Jesuit Center in the reclusive hills of Wernersville, Pa., on a blindingly dark and stormy night to begin a silent five-day retreat. Such a scenario might have compelled someone more compos mentis to turn around. But that was the point. As a 43-year-old mother of three wrung out from three years of panic attacks triggered by the specter of financial ruin, I needed a solid period of quiet to recombobulate. Cheaply.
I am neither Catholic nor anything in particular, but I yearned for a snippet of the no-frills spiritual solitude. The Jesuits, I'd read, were the guys to go to concerning such matters. Indeed, to engage in periods of quiet contemplation with a full-stop break from everyday life was central to the philosophy of the Jesuit founder Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556). It still is. Today, some 200 Jesuits are engaged full time in directing spiritual retreats at more than 20 centers in the United States. 
But there were other reasons I'd opted for the Jesuit Center in Wernserville over, say, a spa vacation, yoga retreat or vision quest. For one thing, the center advertised an Arcadian setting and drivable proximity from my home in Brooklyn. For another, the cost was $560 for five days, including room, board and a daily hourlong conversation with a spiritual director, who would escort me through Scripture-based prayer and meditation.
Moreover, the more luxe-sounding excursions I'd considered often seemed to involve a time commitment of a week or more, along with New Age locution that somehow did not sit right. A solo quest during which animal ''spirit guides'' could conceivably rip out my pancreas after the sweat lodge? No.
But while I'd had the notion that it would be tough to keep quiet for five days, I realized, on arrival, that I had not developed a textured sense of what I was getting into. The facility itself, an English Renaissance-style building constructed in the late 1920s, was gigantic and dark -- attributes intensified by the resident Jesuits' ubiquitously posted wish to keep the light bills low. Fantasies of sequestered holy men tending to herb gardens and homemade beer stills were combusted by industrial platters of green beans and pigs-in-blankets provided by Sodexo, the integrated food and facilities management services behemoth.
But there was also an ineffable sphinxiness about the place. For example, I got there an hour and a half late the first night, and there was no one to tell me where to go or what I should be doing. The only signpost was a list of names and room numbers tacked to a corkboard, so I found mine and rollerbagged down the building's spooky, caliginous hallways until I tracked down my assigned spot. I creaked open the lockless door and found a jumbo crucifix resting on the bed pillow. If Stanley Kubrick had found this place, he'd never have shot a movie anywhere else.
And there were crucifixes everywhere. It's a Jesuit center. But as someone not only dimwitted enough not to have anticipated a lot of crucifixes at a Jesuit center, but one also whose main visual encounter with crucifixes was watching ''The Exorcist,'' I found it surprisingly tricky at first to suppress the feeling that blood was going to start gushing down the walls. This was not an apprehension my fellow retreatants appeared to share. Mostly women my mother's age or older, and to my eye, clearly devout and knowledgeable, they were not talk spoilers. In fact virtually no one made eye contact.
But by the end of my five days, I'd come to see my room as my sanctum sanctorum. I would regard crucifixes as heralds of human suffering and spiritual light. And I'd come to feel a strange closeness with my silent companions. All this was chaperoned by my spiritual director, Sister Barbara Singer.
I met Sister Barbara at 1:15 p.m. my first full day in a tiny, sunlit office on the building's third floor. An upbeat grandmotherly woman with a plumose crown of lovely white hair, Sister Barbara calmly invited me to sit down across from her and asked me to tell her what had brought me there.
I told her about my stress-related illnesses, which had hospitalized me twice earlier that year; about my sparkly-minded children; about watching my Lear-like father die in front of me; about my divorce, subsequent remarriage and unexpected conception of my son; about my dip into poverty; my husband's unemployment; my darkest fears; of aloneness.
Sister Barbara listened closely and then said, ''What I hear you saying, Susan, is that you feel forsaken.''
Not dealing with abandonment issues: forsaken. Sister Barbara did not then press me to process my relationship with, say, my mother or to consider that I should ''own'' my feelings.
Rather, she opened her Bible and turned to Matthew 3:17. This is the verse in which Jesus is baptized by John the Baptist, and God opens the heavens and says, ''This is my son, the beloved; my favor rests on him.'' Sister Barbara read the passage and closed the book. How would it be, she asked, to personalize this passage -- to pray with the words, ''You are my beloved daughter, Susie; my favor rests on you''? How would it feel to know that God loves you as you love your own children? And then I wept and, finally, cleared my throat. It would feel pretty good. Sister Barbara advised me to go outside, walk, and pray with this. ''See you tomorrow at 1:15, and we'll see what God says,'' she said and then chortled.
I followed her suggestion. I brought a pack of cigarettes, Thomas Merton's ''Book of Hours,'' and a paper cup of coffee with hazelnut nondairy creamer, and I walked. The grounds of the Jesuit Center in Wernersville number some 250 acres of Wyeth-esque country, replete with undulating hills; groves of shy trees; a pond that's home to monster koi; a cemetery. Benches positioned perfectly for quiet contemplation appeared providentially every so often.
I sat on one of these at the top of a hill, closed my eyes and sat. I don't know how long I was there, not meditating ''on the breath'' or deliberately clearing my mind, but simply internally rolling over the words of my custom-tailored Matthew 3:17. Slowly, though, I grew to feel still and happy.
Later that night, I peeked into the center's adytum, a dark and lovely stone chapel whose altar glowed with candlelight. I approached a pew and knelt. I thought about my closest family and friends and how Matthew 3:17 might be custom-fit for them, too. Again, time evaporated. That night, I slept 12 hours straight. I hadn't slept half that much in more than a decade.
But by the third day, I was antsy. How were my children doing? What e-mails was I missing about that cable show and screenplay I was supposed to be working on? I was in the midst of selling my house in Brooklyn and closing on a place in Philadelphia. Were real estate agents going ballistic trying to track me down? How was any of this going to get done?
It had been a bitter morning, so instead of walking outside, I ducked into the center's craftsy Art Room and busied myself with assembling a collage from magazine cutouts like a psych ward patient, I scoffed. I arrived at my appointed meeting time with my handiwork. ''Oh, you made a collage!'' Sister Barbara chirped, before turning to Exodus 36:4-7. It was a description of Moses and crew building the sanctuary, as instructed by God. All the volunteers were stuffing the place silly with offerings, causing the construction workers to complain to Moses: ''The people are bringing way too much material for doing the work that the LORD has commanded us to do.'' Moses agreed. ''So the people were restrained from bringing, for the material they had was sufficient to do all the work, and more.''
HAD I considered, Sister Barbara wondered aloud, that perhaps I already had enough to do all my work? I doubted it. ''Ah, that's the whole ball of wax, isn't it?'' Sister Barbara said. ''To believe, with all your heart: to know.'' Then, she asked the startling: Did I believe in Jesus? Sure, I did; in fact, as a punky, truant teenager, I had believed that Jesus was the greatest anti-establishment radical of all time. Sister Barbara laughed and clapped her hands: ''Great -- so you can relate!'' she said. She exhorted me to talk, pray to Jesus directly, with the Scripture from Exodus in mind. ''Just see what comes to you.''
That afternoon, I ventured into the chapel again and stayed a long time. It would be awkward to report on what I experienced there; possibly, implausible. Suffice it to say, I left with the strong feeling that I did, indeed, have everything I needed -- if only I would stay quiet long enough to remember.
I left the Jesuit Center on a clear, icy night, turning on my cellphone just in time to receive a call from my husband hollering that he and a fellow he'd hired needed to be picked up at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, followed by a call from my daughters' father saying that financial aid applications needed to be completed by the next day, latest. Seven voice mails and 108 e-mails left. O.K. For now, at least, I had more than enough to do all the work, and more.
IF YOU GO
For anyone in need of an intense, quick shot of affordable quiet, some options near and far:
GREEN GULCH FARM, MUIR BEACH, CALIF.
Part of the San Francisco Zen Center, Green Gulch Farm is a retreat center in Marin County, close to Muir Beach, offering Thursday-through-Sunday retreats at $60 per day, including meals and tax. The focus is Zen meditation and service (as in chores). (415) 383-3134; sfzc.org/ggf.
HOLY WISDOM MONASTERY, MIDDLETON, WIS.
The focus is on women and ecological justice, all denominations welcome. Spiritual retreats at the Benedictine monastery range from $55 a night for group accommodations to $75 per night for private. Spiritual direction is $50 per session, and meals are an additional $23 a day. (608) 836-1631; benedictinewomen.org)
JESUIT CENTER, WERNERSVILLE, PA.
Five- or seven-day silent retreats are $420 to $560. (610) 670-3642 ; jesuitcenter.org.
SPA CASTLE, COLLEGE POINT, QUEENS
It isn't quiet, but you don't have to speak to a soul as you becalm your addled mind/body all day and well into the evening in the Queens day spa's many single-sex whirlpools and saunas in this Vegas-style facility. The second floor is mixed company, involving the use of spa-issued uniforms and a grove of themed saunas, ranging from gold and jade to mineral salt and cold. A mini-retreat bargain at $35 per person on weekdays, $45 on weekends. (718) 939-6300; nyspacastle.com.
KRIPALU CENTER FOR YOGA AND HEALTH, STOCKBRIDGE, MASS.
Avoid the expensive workshops, and Kripalu R&R Retreats are reasonable. Ranging from shared dorms at $164 midweek to private lakeside rooms at $399 per diem, the retreats run all year long and include vegetarian meals, yoga and tai chi classes, and use of the facility's sauna and whirlpools, as well as attendance at evening events and concerts. The facility is a rather charmless brick dormitory-like structure, and the vibe is wide-eyed positive. (866) 200-5203; kripalu.org.
OMEGA INSTITUTE, RHINEBECK, N.Y.
Skip the pricey seminars and from April through October Omega's R&R Retreats cost $25 per day during the week ($38 on weekends) and include classes in tai chi, yoga and nutrition, as well as events. The sanctuary and sauna are also open to guests. There are two other campuses: in Watsonville, Calif., about 20 miles south of Santa Cruz, and in Costa Rica. (877) 944-2002; eomega.com.
SIVANANDA ASHRAM, PARADISE ISLAND, NASSAU, BAHAMAS
If you can swing the airfare, this spartan island yoga retreat center will welcome the whole family, to the tune of $69 a day for a tent to $129 a day for a beachfront suite for a one- to six-day stay. It's a hard-core setup. No meat, no salt, no caffeine, and everyone follows the same, no-slack schedule: Up at 6 a.m. for meditation, followed by an hour and a half of yoga at 8, then onto a 10 a.m. veggie brunch. By 4 p.m., you're in for more yoga. Lights out at 10 p.m. (866) 466-5934; sivanandabahamas.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Five days at the Jesuit Center in Wernersville, Pa. is a bargain at $560, spiritual direction included. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Spa Castle in College Point, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Green Gulch Farm, near Muir Beach, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GYOKUDEN STEPH WENDERSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); YOGA (70%); MEDITATION (66%); FACILITIES MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (68%); SODEXO (51%)

TICKER: SW (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (68%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



14 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: From the Sideline To the Bottom Line

BYLINE: By JAMES K. GENTRY and RAQUEL MEYER ALEXANDER. 
James K. Gentry is a professor at the School of Journalism and Mass Communications at the University of Kansas. Raquel Meyer Alexander is an assistant professor at the School of Business at the University of Kansas.

 BODY:
Before their teams take the field in the Bowl Championship Series title game on Jan. 9, Alabama Coach Nick Saban and his Louisiana State counterpart, Les Miles, will, from a financial standpoint, have already won.
Saban will receive $200,000 from Alabama because his team will be playing for the national title, while Miles will receive the same amount from L.S.U. Those bonuses represent a small fraction of the annual income for each, yet they are indicative of the increasingly complicated nature of compensation in major college football, where actual coaching is just one of the many things for which coaches find themselves financially rewarded.
A review of the contracts for more than 40 major college coaches -- including Saban, Miles and many of the other men whose teams are appearing in the B.C.S. games that begin Monday -- shows that agreements that once seemed simple and straightforward have morphed into an ever more intricate combination of guaranteed salary increases, lucrative bonuses and desirable perks that cover everything from country-club memberships to free travel on private airplanes. 
Where once coaches may have been paid merely an annual salary, now the bulk of their compensation often comes from the portion of their contracts that deals with media appearances and endorsement revenues. And the deals also frequently include issues as varied as how their players' uniforms must look and whether coaches can endorse certain kinds of products or services.
''This business has changed so much,'' said Robert Lattinville, the chairman of the sports division at the law firm Stinson Morrison Hecker LLP, which represents coaches in contract matters. ''Twenty years ago it was not uncommon to have a coach's employment secured with a handshake. This practice has given way to 20- and 30-page employment contracts that require a working knowledge of state and federal employment law, income taxation, and a host of esoteric N.C.A.A. and athletic conference rules and procedures. You've got to know a whole lot more today to understand the economics and operation of a college coach's contract.''
The contracts for both Saban and Miles, which are public documents, were provided upon request by Alabama and L.S.U., though neither university responded to requests for comment. The deals, though more lucrative than those for most other coaches, are in many ways typical. Saban receives $4.68 million in total compensation -- not counting performance or academic bonuses -- and Miles is paid $3.75 million before the same bonuses. While contracts for most major college football coaches are similar in structure and content, the amount of detail varies. Saban's contract lays out many of the perks he receives, while Miles's is more vague. A contract's degree of specificity can often be determined by how the contract was written for the coach who previously held the job.
Both Saban and Miles have a relatively low base salary, with the bulk of their pay coming from performing duties related to news media and public appearances, which some lawyers call personal services clauses. Saban's contract calls for a ''talent fee'' of $3.93 million while Miles's ''radio/television/Internet'' payment is $2.90 million. In addition, if Saban remains at Alabama, he gets an annual retention bonus of $533,333, which is larger than his base salary, $225,000. Miles's base salary, $300,000, is also supplemented with an annual guarantee of $550,000.
Certain provisions in their contracts are common, like the requirement that they receive permission from the athletic director to use their own images and the expectation that they will report possible violations of the law or university rules to their superiors. Yet, Saban has at least one unorthodox matter that he must attend to. According to his contract, Saban is expected to ''cooperate with the university by preventing the unnecessary spatting of athletic shoes worn'' in games. In other words, Crimson Tide players are not allowed to put white tape over their shoes and cover the logo for Nike, which has a contract with the university.
There are also plenty of perks. Saban and his immediate family get two full-size automobiles for business and personal use, and do not have to pay operating expenses or purchase insurance. Miles's contract calls for a ''courtesy vehicle allowance'' of $7,200 a year.
Saban has the use of a noncommercial airplane for a maximum of 25 hours per year. Time required for the plane to return home after delivering Saban or his family is not counted toward that time. Saban gets the use of a 15-seat luxury box and 22 luxury box tickets for football games at Bryant-Denny Stadium, 12 additional general-admission season tickets, and free tickets to other Alabama sporting events.
Both coaches receive bonuses if their players meet targeted academic performance levels. Miles can earn up to $200,000 for various academic achievements; Saban can earn up to $100,000 if the football team's graduation rate is in the top 25 percent of the Southeastern Conference. Both are rewarded more substantially for athletic achievement. If L.S.U. wins the B.C.S. title, Miles's salary will be adjusted so that it is the highest in the SEC plus $1,000. Saban would receive $400,000 if the Crimson Tide wins the title.
Planning Ahead
There is a certain art to negotiating a contract, one that takes into account a coach's reputation and track record. The number of years in the agreement and the base salary are often used as a starting point. For new coaches, the minimum number of years typically would be four. For an established coach, that number could increase.
The base can also be a multiple of what the coach will receive if he is terminated without cause. So, a new coach might have a base salary of $250,000 and his termination amount would be $1 million for a four-year deal. The buyout would become more complicated for a highly visible coach. The base salary is designed to maximize retirement benefits, which include 403(b) contributions, pensions and other retirement plans.
''If Mack Brown is making $5-million-plus and producing relatively modest results at a storied football program like Texas, then the Les Miles and Nick Sabans of the industry have strong leverage to leapfrog Mack's compensation package,'' Lattinville said.
The concerns are different for a coach with less experience.
''When you're working with a first-time head coach, he's so euphoric about getting the job and you have to pull him back and say, 'So, what if you get fired?' '' Lattinville said, referring to the importance of negotiating a contract's exit terms.
In the unlikely event that either Miles or Saban were fired after this season, Miles would receive $18.75 million and Saban would receive half his annual base salary and talent fee each year for twice the amount of time remaining in his contract. In other words, Saban would receive the entire amount but it would be spread over a period of time twice as long as his contract.
Miles also has a clause which states that he would have to pay L.S.U. $1.25 million if he were to take the coaching job at Michigan, where he played and was an assistant.
Both coaches have the right to operate coaches camps. In fact, the tax-exempt Saban Football Camps Inc. remains intact although Saban now works for Alabama. It has just been renamed Tiger Football Camps Inc. and Miles has replaced Saban as president.
Corporate Coaches
Like many other coaches, Saban and Miles also have corporations and foundations that handle their media appearances and endorsements. Saban's corporation, Sideline Inc., receives income related to ''fees, royalty payments, advance payments or similar compensation'' in addition to money from his endorsement deals with Coca-Cola and Ford.
Coaches can use these corporations for sophisticated tax planning that is not available to state employees who are not affiliated with similar organizations. But because a portion of their income is earned as state employees, they remain eligible for state employee benefits such as pensions, retirement savings matches, medical insurance, vacation pay and tuition waivers.
Funneling expenses through such a corporation converts nondeductible personal expenses, to fully deductible business expenses. Loan-outs also can be used to defer income and establish additional retirement savings. In many cases, the corporation can deduct retirement benefits, which are tax-free until the funds are distributed upon retirement. There is also great latitude in designing fringe and retirement benefits since either they or their spouses are the majority shareholder in the corporation.
These corporations often are included in the coaches' contracts with the university. L.S.U.'s contract with Miles stipulates that he can require the university to contract with another corporation for services that are part of his fee for media appearances. The name of the corporation is not cited in his contract but Miles and his wife, Kathy, have five registered corporations in Louisiana. In this, as in many other aspects of their contracts, Saban and Miles are following an increasingly standard practice. Kansas State's Bill Snyder has a contract that states the university's athletic corporation must pay more than $700,000 annually to a corporation he is affiliated with, SSM Inc., to license his image.
One thing that becomes clear is that coaches like Saban and Miles are treated more and more like celebrity entertainers. Saban, after all, had a cameo in ''The Blind Side.'' (Sandra Bullock's character said of him, ''I find him extremely handsome.'') Miles has almost 60,000 Twitter followers.
Saban is so popular that in 2010, a mayoral candidate in Bessemer, Ala., claimed he had endorsed her. In fact, her campaign manager had manipulated a photograph of Saban and his wife, replacing Terry Saban with the candidate. When the chicanery was discovered, the campaign manager resigned and the candidate went on to finish fourth in a six-person race.
Before attempting the ruse, the campaign manager should have checked Saban's contract. It prohibits him from endorsing any ''product, business, service, or other commercial activity without prior written consent of the university.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE ROBBINS/GETTY IMAGES (SABAN)
CHRIS GRAYTHEN/GETTY IMAGES (MILES))
Louisiana State beat Alabama on Nov. 5, but the teams will meet again next week in the B.C.S. national title game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL TIELEMANS/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED -- GETTY IMAGES) (SP1)
PHOTOS (SP6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM MANCHESTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHARTS: Performance Bonuses: A sampling of some of the performance bonuses in the contracts of Alabama's Nick Saban and Louisiana State's Les Miles. (Source: Individual contracts, provided by the universities.) (SP1)
The Coaches' Compensation: A breakdown of what Nick Saban and Les Miles could have earned for the 2011-12 season based on coaching salaries, fees and bonuses, according to each coach's contract. This chart reflects guaranteed payments but does not reflect the value of perks like cars, country club memberships, etc. (Source: Individual contracts, provided by the universities.)
Perks in the Contracts: Nick Saban's contract has much more detail about his fringe benefits than does Les Miles's. Below are some of the extras included in the two contracts. (SP6)
Compiling Revenue: The amount of revenue generated in 2010 by each university's sports teams, and the portion that was generated by football. (Source: N.C.A.A. Revenues and Expenses Report, provided by the universities)
 The Coaches' Share: The amount spent in 2010 on all head coaches at each university, and the portion that goes to the head football coach. Figures in millions. (Source: N.C.A.A. Revenues and Expenses Report, provided by the universities.) (SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); CONTRACTS LAW (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: STINSON MORRISON HECKER LLP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



15 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Large Rewards In Teacher Pay

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- During her first six years of teaching in this city's struggling schools, Tiffany Johnson got a series of small raises that brought her annual salary to $63,000, from about $50,000. This year, her seventh, Ms. Johnson earns $87,000.
That latest 38 percent jump, unheard of in public education, came after Ms. Johnson was rated ''highly effective'' two years in a row under Washington's new teacher evaluation system. Those ratings also netted her back-to-back bonuses totaling $30,000.
''Lots of teachers leave the profession, but this has kept me invested to stay,'' said Ms. Johnson, 29, who is a special-education teacher at the Ron H. Brown Middle School in Northeast Washington. ''I know they value me.''
That is exactly the idea behind what admirers consider the nation's most advanced merit pay system for public school teachers. This fall, the District of Columbia Public Schools gave sizable bonuses to 476 of its 3,600 educators, with 235 of them getting unusually large pay raises. 
''We want to make great teachers rich,'' said Jason Kamras, the district's chief of human capital.
The profession is notorious for losing thousands of its brightest young teachers within a few years, which many experts attribute to low starting salaries and a traditional step-raise structure that rewards years of service and academic degrees rather than success in the classroom.
Many districts have tried over the last decade to experiment with performance pay systems but have frequently been thwarted by powerful teachers' unions that negotiated the traditional pay structures. Those that have implemented merit pay have generally offered bonuses of a few thousand dollars, often as an incentive to work in hard-to-staff schools or to work extra hours to improve students' scores. Several respected studies have found that such payments have scant effect on student achievement; since most good teachers already work hard, before and after class, there are limits to how much more can be coaxed out of them with financial incentives.
But Washington is the leader among a handful of large cities that are seeking a more fundamental overhaul of teacher pay. Alongside the aggressive new evaluation system that has made the city famous for firing poor-performing teachers -- more than 400 over the past two years -- is a bonus-and-raise structure aimed at luring talented people to the profession and persuading the most effective to stick with it.
''The most important role for incentives is in shaping who enters the teaching profession and who stays,'' said Eric A. Hanushek, a professor of economics at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. ''Washington's incentive system will attract talented teachers, and it'll help keep the best ones.''
Under the system, known as Impact Plus, teachers rated ''highly effective'' earn bonuses ranging from $2,400 to $25,000. Teachers who get that rating two years in a row are eligible for a large permanent pay increase to make their salary equivalent to that of a colleague with five more years of experience and a more advanced degree.
Those rewards come with risk: to receive the bonuses and raises, teachers must sign away some job security provisions outlined in their union contract. About 20 percent of the teachers eligible for the raises this year and 30 percent of those eligible for bonuses turned them down rather than give up those protections.
One persistent critic of the system is Nathan Saunders, president of the Washington Teachers Union, who argues that the evaluations do not adequately take into account the difficulties of working in poor neighborhoods. He also says that performance pay inappropriately singles out stars.
''This boutique program discourages teachers from working together,'' Mr. Saunders said.
Several other big-city school systems have recently tried to break out of the mold of paying all teachers according to a single salary schedule.
In 2007, Denver enacted a merit pay system, which President Obama has praised but experts see as flawed. It gives larger monetary awards to teachers who earn advanced degrees than to those who significantly improve student achievement, though there is little evidence that students learn more when taught by teachers with advanced degrees.
The system in Houston, also adopted in 2007, defines classroom success so broadly that it rewards more than half of all teachers with bonuses. The amounts are smaller than those in Washington; the maximum possible bonus last year was $11,330.
This fall, the Miami-Dade County School District gave one-time bonuses, financed with $14 million in federal grant money, to 120 teachers. Eighty-four of them received $4,000 each, and 12 got the top payout of $25,000.
Karen Sutton, who teaches honors English at a Miami high school, was one of the 12.
''To have somebody say you've done a great job, that feels wonderful,'' said Ms. Sutton, 56, who is in her 23rd year of teaching in Miami and has a salary of about $55,000. ''But does it affect how I teach or whether I keep teaching? No. I've never thought, 'If I get a bonus, I'll stick this out.' ''
Marta Maria Arrocha, who is 47 and teaches reading to fourth graders, was another $25,000 winner, which she described as exhilarating. Still, Ms. Arrocha, who has been teaching nine years, said she ''would tend to discourage students who say they want to go into teaching.''
''I try to nitpick -- is this really what you want to do?'' she said. ''A lot of people look down on this profession.''
Washington, like several other cities that have rolled out merit pay programs, first promoted the plan mainly by emphasizing the top compensation that someone could earn in a single year: about $130,000 annually in salary and performance bonuses. But earning that much is rare if not impossible -- it requires the most experienced teachers, with the most advanced degrees, to have the best possible performance, something yet to be achieved.
Mr. Kamras, who helped design the Washington system, said he considered the most important aspect of Impact Plus to be the permanent increases awarded to outstanding teachers early in their careers, many of whom might otherwise leave the profession.
Take Mark LaLonde. At 32, he is in his seventh year as a social studies teacher at a high school in Washington. But he lives in Baltimore, where his wife works, and had considered working in the Baltimore schools to avoid the tiresome commute. But he gave up that flirtation after receiving the ''highly effective'' rating twice and having his salary increase to $87,000 from about $58,000 last year. He also earned a bonus of $10,000 for two consecutive years. In Baltimore, the union pay scale suggests that he would be making in the low $50,000s.
Jimmie Roberts, who is 28 and tutors slow readers, saw his salary increase to about $75,000 in 2011-12, from about $52,000 last year, in addition to receiving $30,000 in bonuses over two years. The money and recognition, he said, helped dispel the discouragement he had felt having to work a second job, as a greeter in a wine bar on nights and weekends, to pay off college loans.
Ms. Johnson, the seventh-grade special-education teacher, received her highly effective rating -- and all the extra money -- because her students' test scores had improved significantly, and because administrators who had visited her classroom came away impressed.
''She'll get a class full of kids who are below basic, who can't read, and by the time they leave, they'll be scoring well above basic or proficient,'' said Remidene Diakite, the assistant principal at Ms. Johnson's school. ''A big part of her success is she puts so much effort into figuring out her students and teaching to their weaknesses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tiffany Johnson, above, a special-education teacher, and Jimmie Roberts, left, a reading tutor, both work at public schools in Washington. They each got large raises after earning the rating ''highly effective'' for two years in a row. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANNON JENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%)

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



16 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BLOCK BY BLOCK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: A Place Of Fresh Starts

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN L. WRIGHT

 BODY:
ON a recent Wednesday, as the late morning sun shone on the Lower East Side, two gentlemen had crossed Canal and were headed north on Orchard Street. Both wearing one of the better uniforms of the day -- dark washed jeans with one-inch cuffs skimming the ankle above brown leather oxfords, blouson jacket zipped up, short wool scarf in neutral tone looped around the neck, sunglasses with dark lenses and metal frame -- they were out for a stroll, maybe to take in a few of Orchard Street's new art galleries.
''This street reminds me of SoHo,'' said the younger of the two. ''Only not as crowded.''
''And it's grittier,'' the older one replied, as they passed a small team of Chinese workers unloading a van full of heavy cardboard boxes and transporting them, via a steep ramp, to a subterranean storage space. 
In the waning days of 2011, Orchard was a street in transition. While the old printers and specialty lingerie shops kept a foothold, the stylized boutique selling $200 jeans and the skin-care spa with the cult following had quietly moved in.
Orchard Street is eight blocks in length, runs like a spine from Division Street at the southern end to East Houston Street at the northern end, and has a kind of split personality. It abuts the eastern edge of Chinatown at the bottom (see the inexpensive cut daisies at Mei Flower Shop) and gives way to the sidewalk barkers (''Everything, $99'') outside the zoot-suit and luggage purveyors at the top, with plenty of new enterprise in between.
This stretch spans a long period of New York City's history. The street was named for the orchard that grew here in the mid-1700s, as part of a 300-acre farm owned by James DeLancey, a lieutenant governor of New York Province. (Delancey Street intersects with Orchard, running east-west, and divides it in half.) And there are few better living examples of the city's immigrant experience.
''It's a welcoming street,'' said Joe DiNoto, a former architect who moved here from Alphabet City, now tends bar at Barrio Chino over on Broome Street, and lives in the Pink Building, the old department store that takes up the southwest corner of Orchard and Grand. ''It accepts you pretty quickly. Everyone knows each other and helps each other.''
S. Jarmulowsky's Bank Building, Nos. 5-9 Orchard Street, sits at the lower end of the street, within striking distance of a Chinese-owned glass and steel development now going up. Built in neo-Renaissance style in 1912 by Sender Jarmulowsky, a Russian Jewish immigrant who began his life in America as a peddler on Hester Street, the bank served the neighborhood's Jewish immigrant population, failing in 1917. Since 2005 the building has been on and off the market, and today it is dormant, awaiting its next incarnation -- hotel? condominium? Maybe an Apple store?
There are great uninterrupted stretches of tenement buildings, with their iconic brick and fire-escape facades, some of which date to the mid-1800s and still offer lowish rents to workers and bohemians.
At the Tenement Museum, No. 103, immigrant life is depicted in stark relief. For $22, you can visit the restored apartments at No. 97, which from 1863 to 1935 was home to about 7,000 people from more than 20 countries. Items like loaves of bread in the Gumpertz apartment, clothes hanging from pegs by a basin at the Rogarshevskys', and teacups on the tiny kitchen table at the Baldizzis' make it look as if the families had just gone out.
The old buildings have lately been joined by a few striking residential structures, like the rusty-steel-and-wood-framed 30 Orchard. Erected in 2008, it looks a bit like a late-night game of Jenga as played in a student lounge at the Rhode Island School of Design. A two-bedroom two-bathroom unit of about 1,200 square feet, recently sold by Corcoran, was listed for $1.43 million.
At 60 Orchard, another unobtrusive but highly modern addition to the street, there are three floor-through apartments on the market, starting at $1.295 million. Susan Wires, a senior vice president of Stribling, pointed out the NanaWall windows, which open the front of the unit to the street, creating a terrace inside the house.
The least expensive units at 50 Orchard sold early on, but when the recession hit, the $5 million triplex on the top floor found no buyer.
''We dismantled the triplex and we're combining units to make full-floor penthouses,'' said Larry Michaels, a senior vice president of Douglas Elliman. ''They'll come onto the market in March 2012 for $3 million. They're lofty-type one-bedrooms; all have direct elevator, with unobstructed views to the west of the city of New York. And they're half the price of TriBeCa.''
Meanwhile, at street level, a strong sense of independence courses through the corridor. You can see it in the proliferating art galleries, like Scaramouche at No. 52, that keep their own hours. You can find it among the puffy parkas and painfully hip sneakers at Reed Space, No. 151, a pioneer in the ''lifestyle boutique'' wave that has rolled into Orchard Street; see also Project No. 8, a men's outfitter at No. 38.
You'll discover it if you push beyond some of the dodgy-looking storefronts to encounter Victor Osborne, a hat designer, at No. 160, or Gargyle, a women's shop, No. 16A. You can't miss it at No. 118, Moscot, the optical business started in 1899 by Hyman Moscot, who sold eyeglasses from a pushcart on Orchard Street.
You can taste it in the neighborhood restaurants like the Fat Radish at No. 17 and Little Giant at No. 85, whose customers are equal parts locals and adventurers from abroad. The skateboarders have it, popping up whenever the mood strikes and on Sunday afternoons, when the upper blocks of Orchard Street are closed to vehicles.
''I love this in-transition period,'' said Michael Little, who opened Lost Weekend NYC with his soccer buddy Chad Eggers in August. From the sidewalk, the glass-front place looks like the cool coffee bar it is (the first in Manhattan to serve Blue Bottle Coffee). But inside, it's something else again: an art space with photographs, or maybe some surf film footage, projected on the walls. It's also a boutique that sells everything a man might need for a weekend in Montauk: Maelen + Goetz toiletries, Salt Box swim trunks, sturdy canvas totes. Then again, Lost Weekend could be a corner of Berlin, where young intellectuals spread out their papers next to their laptops on the repurposed wood tables, and stay for hours.
''Just a few years ago, it was still the outskirts,'' said Mr. Little, who lives with his wife over on Norfolk Street. ''Now I could throw a wet sock and hit about a dozen D.J.'s and makeup artists. There's an emergent vibe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEADS UP: Skateboarders ply upper Orchard Street, closed to traffic on Sunday afternoons. Below left, brunch at the Fat Radish, No. 17. Below right, a more traditional Orchard Street business. Inset, hat blocks at Victor Osborne's shop, No. 160. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM HORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (87%); REAL ESTATE (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (65%); HISTORY (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); LINGERIE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



17 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2133 words

HEADLINE: I Just Got Here, But I Know Trouble When I See It: Those Recycled Resolutions Are a Boon for Business

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
THIS year, I swear, I will lose those 10 pounds. I will hit the gym more than once a month. I will buy less and recycle more. I will kick that $4.20-a-day cappuccino habit.
Or not.
Like many Americans who've made resolutions for 2012, I made these very same New Year's promises about this time last year.
Which, it turns out, is great for business. Our collective failure to keep our resolutions represents an annuity of sorts for health clubs, weight-loss centers and other enterprises that make up what you might call the self-improvement industry. It's an industry that thrives on our failure to change: recidivism is good for the bottom line.
Americans spend many tens of billions every year in the hope of keeping resolutions to lose weight, get fit, quit smoking, fix their finances, organize their closets -- on and on. Last year, we spent $62 billion on health club memberships, weight-loss programs, exercise tapes, diet soda and the like, according to projections from Marketdata Enterprises, a market research firm. 
We start with good intentions. Memberships for health clubs and weight-loss programs spike each January, says John LaRosa, the president of Marketdata. But by March, the lines thin at the treadmills and many dieters relapse. So the next year, we try -- and pay up -- again.
''If I try one quick fix and it doesn't work, I may be more likely to try the next quick fix,'' says Lisa Lahey, the co-founder of Minds at Work, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., which coaches executives and educators in sustained behavior change.
Supposed easy remedies like celebrity diets hold a powerful allure, but they rarely work in the long term, she says. After all, it's hard for people to shake the underlying conditions -- like stress or anxiety -- that cause unwanted habits. If exercise tapes, dietetic meals, nicotine lozenges and personal finance apps worked by themselves, we'd all be fit, thin, smoke-free and rich.
The hard work of changing a lifestyle isn't as alluring as dropping 30 pounds in 30 days. But some stop-smoking and weight-loss programs, as well as gyms, are trying to help for the long haul, a strategy that can improve customers' chances of success and, for companies like Weight Watchers International, build brand loyalty and revenue.
JANUARY is the most important month of the year in the health club industry. At many gyms, new memberships double. Given that about a third of all members tend to turn over every year, the resolution crowd is crucial.
''The resolutioners always pop up,'' says Scott Hamann, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets covering the fitness industry.
But you probably know what happens next. Only a fraction of members work out twice a week or more, despite all those monthly dues. Health clubs in the United States had more than 50 million members and revenue of $20.3 billion in 2010, according to the latest data from the International Health, Racquet and Sportsclub Association, an industry trade group. But clubs reported that members typically visit only 54 times, or slightly more than once a week.
People might want to do the math before joining a gym, says Stefano DellaVigna, an associate professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, and a co-author of a study titled ''Paying Not to Go to The Gym.'' From an economics standpoint, he says, many people would be better off paying per visit than signing up for a rolling monthly membership. People who seldom use their pay-by-the-month plans often don't get around to canceling them, the study found.
''People overestimate their future attendance,'' Professor DellaVigna says. ''They are not getting their money's worth.''
In any given month, one-fifth of a gym's members are typically inactive, club executives say. These no-shows are great customers for the gyms.
''You don't have any equipment depreciation,'' says Sean Naughton, an analyst at Piper Jaffray. ''You don't have anybody who has to service them -- other than charging their credit or debit card every month.''
Still, some health clubs are trying to have their customers visit the gym more regularly.
''Most of these businesses want to sign you up and hope you don't show up,'' says Scott M. Rosen, the chief operating officer of Equinox, the upscale fitness chain. At Equinox, he says, members not working out for two weeks automatically receive an e-mail from a club manager inviting them -- nudging them, you might say -- to come back. ''We want you to be engaged and we want you to get results.''
Town Sports International, the company behind the Washington, Philadelphia, Boston and New York Sports Clubs, offers a 30-day trial membership for $30 -- long enough for most newcomers to figure out whether they are ready to make workouts a regular habit, says Robert J. Giardina, the company's chief executive. More than 100,000 people have tried the 30-day plan.
''Exercise isn't easy. Most people don't like it,'' Mr. Giardina says. ''But if they can get past a certain point -- usually it's about two months or 12 workouts -- they get committed.''
Life Time Fitness, a family-oriented chain with more than 1.3 million members, tries to engage people by helping them find activities they enjoy so they'll make them a habit. Its 100,000- to 200,000-square-foot clubs, mostly in suburban locations, offer fitness, basketball leagues, racquetball, swimming, yoga, tennis, Pilates as well as weight-loss programs and spa treatments.
''It's about getting over the hump of making New Year's resolutions,'' says Jeff Zwiefel, the company's executive vice president.
To reinforce its message, Life Time has ''membership engagement advisers'' who call new members at regular intervals during the year. In 2010, the company had revenue of $913 million.
THE idea that we can transform ourselves is deeply ingrained in American culture. Benjamin Franklin in his autobiography described a self-improvement plan that he devised for himself as a young man. It included virtues to which many of us still aspire: control stress (''Be not disturbed at trifles,'' Franklin wrote); get organized (''Let all of your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time''); and show some temperance (''Eat not to dullness; drink not to elevation'').
But Franklin didn't have to cope with home shopping channels and the local drive-through McDonald's. Americans spent about $26 billion on diet soda, prepackaged diet dinners and artificial sweeteners in 2010, along with about $1.2 billion on diet books and exercise videos, and about $3.3 billion on commercial weight-loss programs, according to Marketdata estimates. Despite all that, people generally lose only modest amounts of weight and have difficulty keeping it off, says Kelly D. Brownell, the director of the Yale Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity; human biology and the current food environment, he says, are stacked against us.
But some programs promote themselves as helping people navigate our national menu of cheap, fattening food. Weight Watchers has long promoted a multipronged approach -- with a flexible diet, based on its own point system, along with weekly educational meetings.
Yet Weight Watchers, too, ramps up advertising and marketing around New Year's, says Cheryl L. Callan, the company's senior vice president for marketing. Rather than heavily promote prepackaged diet foods, as some of its competitors do, she says, Weight Watchers concentrates on helping people learn healthier routines ''until they become second nature.'' It is devoting more resources to its Web site and to mobile apps, like a new supermarket barcode scanner, that help people navigate restaurant menus or grocery stores.
Members using its digital tools, in addition to attending meetings, lose significantly more weight than people who only attend meetings, Ms. Callan says. Weight Watchers had revenue of about $1.4 billion in the first three quarters of 2011, compared with about $1.1 billion in the same period of 2010.
But there is little evidence of the long-term effectiveness of commercial weight-loss programs, obesity researchers say. A study financed by Weight Watchers that was published by the Journal of the American Medical Association in 2003 concluded that overweight and obese people who attended Weight Watchers weekly lost only about six pounds, on average, after two years. Still, that was better than people in a comparison group who received self-help information and two counseling sessions, who, on average, lost less than one pound over the period.
JANUARY is known as ''the quitting season'' in the smoking-cessation business.
Americans spent about $522 million on over-the-counter nicotine replacement lozenges, gum, skin patches and other anti-smoking products in the 12 months ended Nov. 27, according to the SymphonyIRI Group, a market research firm that tracks product sales. During the first week in January, however, sales of the NicoDerm CQ patch, as well as of Nicorette gum and lozenges, typically jump by about 40 percent, according to GlaxoSmithKline, which markets those brands.
''January is a key time for us,'' says Sue Kelsey, the company's marketing director for consumer smoking-cessation brands.
Only about 3 to 8 percent of smokers quit on their own, says Dr. Anne M. Joseph, a professor of medicine at the University of Minnesota who studies smoking cessation. While nicotine replacement doubles the chance of success, most smokers don't quit. Even under controlled conditions during medical studies, only about 20 percent of volunteers assigned to use nicotine replacement products kicked the habit, she says.
''We don't yet really have a magic bullet, to be blunt about it,'' Dr. Joseph says.
GlaxoSmithKline has just introduced a program at Walmart with QuitNet.com, a leading smoking-cessation Web site. Walmart is offering a 90-day premium membership to the site for $10. But shoppers who buy Nicorette and NicoDerm can get free membership to the site through a rebate. The drug maker has also joined with some national drugstore chains to make pharmacists available to counsel smokers on strategies and products for quitting.
''What you will see around Jan. 1 is a whole bunch of ads for nicotine replacement therapy, because those are commercial products,'' says William Riley, a program director at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute who oversees tobacco research.
Meantime, he says, government resources, like the 1-800-QUIT-NOW hot line and a Web site, smokefree.gov, are available at no cost. Last year, the federal government introduced a program, called SmokefreeTXT. Smokers signing up for it receive free text messages encouraging their efforts to quit and offering practical advice. People who are having particular difficulties, like a craving or a relapse, can receive additional support by texting the service.
''The nice thing about text messages is that they are proactive,'' says Lorien C. Abroms, an assistant professor of prevention and community health at George Washington University. ''They come to you.'' A recent study in Britain reported that one such text message program doubled a smoker's chance of quitting.
LAST month, I read five self-help books. I went to the gym six times. I took yoga and Pilates and meditation and Zumba classes. I de-cluttered my apartment and downgraded from cappuccino to espresso.
But making resolutions stick isn't just a matter of changing your mind-set. It's also a matter of economics. Many people need better incentives, economists say.
In one study at the University of California, Santa Barbara, economics researchers gave students a handout on the benefits of exercise. Then they divided the students into three groups. One group was paid $25 to go to the university's gym once during one week; the second got an extra $100 to go eight more times over the next four weeks; the third group got no money at all.
Even after the payment period expired, some students continued to work out. Shocker: the students who were paid the most money hit the gym more than twice as often as those who got nothing. The researchers concluded that money might work as an incentive to help people move past thresholds so they can form new habits.
Health clubs, for one, might consider new business models that reward people for gym attendance, says Professor DellaVigna at Berkeley. Gyms could charge higher membership fees, he says, while offering rebates of $10 or $20 whenever a member worked out twice or more during a week.
While industries are profiting from all those failed resolutions, giving customers an incentive to keep their promises might be good for business, too, says Professor DellaVigna.
''None of this has yet become a business,'' he says. ''But, if one of these approaches is successful, I have no doubt that companies will jump on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The New Year's resolution season is an ideal time to sell self-improvement -- whether it's more exercise, above, or the Blueprint to Quit program to break the cigarette habit, below. At left, a Weight Watchers ad features Jennifer Hudson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIETING (91%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); SMOKING (89%); FITNESS CENTERS (89%); SMOKING CESSATION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); NUTRITION (67%); SOFT DRINKS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (52%); BRANDING (50%)

COMPANY: WEIGHT WATCHERS INTERNATIONAL INC (84%)

TICKER: WTW (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS812191 DIET & WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (84%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



18 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Losing a Job, Electricity and Her Prescriptions

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
It came down to living by candlelight.
When Ivonne Diaz went through her monthly bills last year to see which ones she could afford on her unemployment checks, she realized she would have to go without electricity. Having Con Edison turn off her lights is just one more obstacle she has faced since losing her job in December 2010. She has also juggled payments for rent and grocery bills while supporting her pregnant teenage daughter.
''Well, we can deal with candles,'' reasoned Ms. Diaz, 51, a single mother of two and a grandmother of three. So for about two weeks, she and her daughter Marisol Diaz, 18, spent their nights in flickering darkness in their one-bedroom apartment in south Yonkers.
Ms. Diaz said the hardest part of having the power cut off was ''not knowing when I was going to get it put back on.'' 
Such uncertainty has overshadowed her life ever since she lost her job at the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation, where she had worked since 1986, eventually becoming a branch office manager.
''I grew up in this company,'' she said. ''It was all I knew.''
But that December, the roughly 1,000 employees in the city's off-track betting parlors received grim news: The operation was shutting down.
''What a feeling of being lost that was,'' Ms. Diaz said.
Having worked for 24 years and 4 months, Ms. Diaz fell just short of the 25-year minimum required to collect a pension, she said. The loss of her job meant an end to health insurance for her and Marisol, who has a learning disability and is six months pregnant. It also meant that Ms. Diaz went without her prescription drugs.
''From April to September, I had no blood pressure medicine,'' Ms. Diaz said. ''I said, O.K., God, I won't eat things with salt,'' she recalled. ''I'll walk a little more; I'll take off some weight. But I felt sick.
''Let me tell you, that's the worst: to be on medication and not know where you were going to get it.''
Ms. Diaz had earned $77,000 a year as a branch office manager, but she ran through her savings and had to tap into money she had socked away, like cashing in her 457 deferred-compensation plan. But she was disappointed to learn that she had to pay taxes on that money, which left her with significantly less than she had hoped for.
''You can avoid going to the dentist, but you can't avoid taxes,'' she said.
With six months left until her $402-a-week unemployment benefits run out, Ms. Diaz worries about finding a job and fears she does not have the computer skills to compete with younger applicants because she had done her work entirely on paper at the betting parlor.
''In the back office, everything was done by hand,'' she said, ''so we never had to use a computer or even type.''
Ms. Diaz got her security officer's license and attended computer classes at the Riverfront Library in Yonkers, and then a former co-worker told her about the Grace Institute.
The institute was founded in 1897 as a tuition-free educational and vocational training program for disadvantaged women. It offers classes in areas like typing, writing and computer programs, and helps prepare students for a competitive job market. Ms. Diaz began the program in September and described her first days there as ''very scary,'' but she quickly formed a bond with her classmates. ''It's even like we're another family there,'' she said.
She has come a long way. ''I'm so impressed with myself that I can actually type,'' she said, beaming. ''And now I'm sitting next to girls in my class that can't type as well as I can,'' she added playfully.
But one day, Ms. Diaz was commuting to the East Side of Manhattan for her classes when she realized she did not have the subway fare to take the No. 1 train to get home later.
''It broke my heart to have to go ask someone to help me,'' Ms. Diaz said. But she turned to Lauren Silberstein, a social worker at Grace Institute, an affiliate of Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York.
''When she entered my office, she just started crying,'' Ms. Silberstein said. ''We talked for a while about her situation and her finances.''
Ms. Diaz's rent is $1,200 a month, and she paid about $600 a month for utilities and other expenses, but had fallen behind on her electric bill.
Ms. Silberstein gave her a MetroCard and a list of food pantries in the neighborhood. ''Then I told her about The New York Times Neediest Cases project,'' she said.
Ms. Diaz contacted Catholic Charities, one of the seven agencies supported by the Neediest Cases Fund, and in November, she was given $310 from the fund to help pay her electric bill.
Buoyed by the confidence the Grace Institute has given her, Ms. Diaz is eager for her first job interviews when she completes the program in March. Now, when her daughter worries, Ms. Diaz said, ''I reassure her that we will all be O.K.''
''There is a light at the end of the tunnel,'' she says.
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivonne Diaz, who worked for 24 years at New York City's Off-Track Betting Corporation, and her daughter Marisol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $4,087,977 Recorded Thursday 29,191 Total $4,117,168 Last year to date $3,859,706 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); HYPERTENSION (62%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY OFF-TRACK BETTING CORP (69%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



19 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; CRITICS' PICKS OF 2011; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Making Sense of a More Sensible Year

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
1. Volkswagen Passat TDI
2. Range Rover Evoque
3. Ford Mustang Boss 302
4. Audi A7
5. Porsche Cayman R
6. Chevrolet Sonic
7. Bentley Mulsanne
8. BMW 528i
9. Chrysler 300
10. Honda CR-V
1. VOLKSWAGEN PASSAT TDI ($26,765, as tested
$28,665) Family buyers often say that they want a
specific car, one with the mileage of a hybrid and 
the space of a Hummer. I tell them to stop dreaming
-- until now. This diesel Passat may seem as
bland as an Osmond family L.P., but the entire
singing clan could probably squeeze inside. During
my gentle highway testing, VW's made-in-Tennessee
sedan returned a no-fudging 50 m.p.g.
2. RANGE ROVER EVOQUE ($41,995, as tested
$60,570) Way to go, Lincoln. A decade ago, you
lured Gerry McGovern from Land Rover to revamp
your feckless lineup. Then you stuck him on
the bench, never producing any of his ambitious
designs. Now Mr. McGovern, who returned to
Land Rover as design director, has created the
crossover smash of the year, a distinctively daring urban machine that seems perfect for carrying
supermodels around London. One look at its nighttime
puddle lamps -- they project an image of the
Evoque at your feet, like Batman's searchlight --
suggests that the Evoque is playing in a different
league than the typical bland crossover.
3. FORD MUSTANG BOSS 302 ($41,105, as tested
$42,990) I couldn't stop driving this Mustang. I
couldn't stop talking about it or listening to the
mating call of its high-revving 414-horsepower V-8.
And on a racetrack, I couldn't stop lapping until
the last checkered flag dropped. The best production
Mustang in history -- sorry, boomers, but
1960s nostalgia goes only so far -- can match the
lap times of a BMW M3. That's just crazy.
4. AUDI A7 ($60,125, as tested $68,630) Park the A7
on a street and wait a few seconds: one or more
people will appear to offer compliments on the
Audi and on your good taste. In the United States,
Audi still sells roughly half as many cars as BMW
or Mercedes-Benz, but models like the A7 -- beautifully
designed, technically advanced, subtle yet
commanding -- show why the brand has the German
luxury kings looking over their shoulders.
5. PORSCHE CAYMAN R ($67,250, as tested, $85,100)
If mid-engine sports cars were handed out like free
candy, I'd take the supercharged Lotus Evora S. If
monthly payments were involved, I'd go with the
Cayman R. This stripped-down, track-ready version
of Porsche's purest sports car is sugar on
wheels: light, fast and finger-snap responsive. You
feel as if your brain and the car are sharing the
same processor.
6. CHEVROLET SONIC ($14,495, as tested $18,990)
Vega. Citation. Metro. Aveo. Reciting names from
Chevy's small-car history can make you laugh or
cry, depending on whether you've owned one. But
although it took G.M. 40 years to succeed, the Sonic
should wash away the bitterness and bad memories.
The Chevy subcompact, especially in goggle-eyed
hatchback form, is not only cuter than the
Honda Fit, it uses less gas and nearly matches that
car's sprightly low-budget performance. 7. BENTLEY MULSANNE ($291,295, as tested
$333,885) I usually prefer to leave three-ton leather-
and-lambs-wool palaces to the House of Saud;
it's hard to relate to sedans so out of my league.
But I'll make an exception for the Bentley Mulsanne.
Imposing but neither stuffy nor excessively
flashy -- and surprisingly rewarding to drive --
the Mulsanne is the epitome of modern luxury for
the self-made prince.
8. BMW 528i ($47,795, as tested $57,275) This is the
green frosting in this year's have-cake-and-eat-it
department. The most affordable 5 Series comes
with a new turbo 4-cylinder, which replaces a naturally
aspirated in-line 6 in several models, including
the next 3 Series. With 240 horsepower and 260
pound-feet of torque, the Twin-Power 4 outmuscles
the 6, yet provides better fuel economy: I observed
a remarkable 35 m.p.g. on the highway.
9. CHRYSLER 300 ($27,995, as tested $53,930) Just
when the 300 seemed as played-out as ''The Sopranos,''
the equally gangster-friendly Chrysler is refreshed and ready. For people who associate
Chrysler interiors with a child's treehouse, the sophisticated
cabin is the big surprise. A range of
healthy power plants, from a 292-horsepower V-6 to
a fearsome 470-horse Hemi V-8, make the 300 a top
contender among big-bodied sedans.
10. HONDA CR-V ($23,105, as tested $28,555) Honestly,
I didn't jump out of the Honda saying, ''Ooh,
gotta get me one of these.'' But then I remember
that every dazzling luxury crossover I've tested --
the Evoque, the BMW X3, the Audi Q5 -- costs 50
grand. For barely half that price, the CR-V sets a
standard among the compact crossovers that real
people can afford. The money you save could be a
nice start on a down payment for a house.
Complaints? We Have a Few
ELECTRIC TROLLS The Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid,
as with any first-adopter technology, isn't
perfect. But not even the entire electrical grid
could power the ax-grinders -- many of whom, one
suspects, have never sat in an electric car -- who
reflexively attack the Volt or any car that doesn't
run on Saudi crude. Scratch the surface of many
anti-Volt screeds and you find the currency of global
warming deniers, G.M. bashers, conspiracy
theorists and self-styled free marketers. Ultimately,
the criticism isn't even about the car. If the Volt
got 500 m.p.g., cost $1,995 and levitated across
Lake Michigan, this bunch would complain about
battery recycling.
NOT A CLUTCH PLAYER When automakers followed
Audi's lead by offering dual-clutch automated
manual transmissions, enthusiasts imagined everyday
cars whipping through gears like Ferrari
racecars. But the latest mass-market dual-clutch
units on the Ford Focus and Hyundai Veloster feel
clunkier than the conventional automatics in everything
from 1950s Chevys to today's Toyota
Camrys. That begs the question: what's the point
of high technology if it doesn't work as well as the
older, proven stuff?
UGLY IS AS UGLY DOES Nissan Murano CrossCabriolet
($47,520 as tested) If Hollywood did a remake
of ''The Blob,'' this Nissan would make an
ideal product placement. Strangely formed, with a
quivering structure and an oozing ride, the convertible
version of the Murano crossover is the
homeliest vehicle since the Pontiac Aztek, and at
least the Aztek was affordable.
WEIRD SCIENCE The Kia Optima is one fresh-looking
sedan, and I have few complaints with the
standard or turbo versions. But the Optima Hybrid
($32,250 as tested) is a poorly integrated hiccup fit
of shuddering starts, weird-feeling brakes and
muffed handoffs between electric propulsion and
the gas engine. The estimated highway mileage is
40 m.p.g., but I got a sickly 28. Try the hybrid versions
of the Ford Fusion or Toyota Camry instead.
WRONG NUMBER I realize Chrysler needed a stopgap
between the notorious Sebring and the modern
Fiat-based sedan penciled in for 2013. But exigencies
don't excuse the result: the Chrysler 200
(sedan as tested, $27,455) is much better than its
donor car, the Sebring, but that's like saying Carrot
Top is funnier than Gallagher.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about critics' favorite cars of 2011 misstated the horsepower of one of Lawrence Ulrich's picks. The Ford Mustang Boss 302 is rated at 444, not 414.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VOLKSWAGEN OF AMERICA) (AU1)
 URBAN EXPLORER: Range Rover Evoque. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAGUAR LAND ROVER) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORTS CARS (89%); SEDANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012



20 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: An Unlikely Group Rebels Against Preservation Districts

BYLINE: By MATT SMITH. 
msmith@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Susan Beckstead stepped out of her sky-blue, three-story classical revival Victorian on Pierce Street -- the one with bay windows, dentil and egg-and-dart molding, a modillion cornice and balustrade-lined flat roof -- to show a visitor around her 120-year-old neighborhood bordering Duboce Park in central San Francisco.
Across the street her neighbor was finishing a $1 million remodeling of his 1898 taupe-colored, three-and-a-half-story Queen Anne Victorian, a process that so far has taken a year because of delays in getting permits. At the opposite end of Ms. Beckstead's block, workers toiled on the roof of a pink, 1905 Queen Anne triplex, where restoration is still under way a year after the initial permit application, owing in part to a dispute with neighbors over the appropriateness of a proposed street-facing dormer window. 
Ms. Beckstead said she has her own plans to replace her windows and fix up her garage, but she is loath to start, in part because of the difficulty her neighbors have had getting permits. Her biggest fear, she said, is that the city will make it even harder to obtain permits by declaring her neighborhood a historical landmark district, which would empower Planning Department officials to reject any changes that they decide might violate a building's historical integrity.
Garage add-ons that extend beyond the front of a house are a potential no-no. Windows that are inconsistent with a building's original materials and architecture are another.
Ms. Beckstead said there are enough rules in place already. ''Every house on this street has been redone,'' she said, ''and we've seen the difficulty each homeowner experienced.''
After more than a decade in which San Francisco politics was partly defined by antidevelopment and historic preservation forces, a backlash has begun. Many are surprised, however, that Ms. Beckstead's neighborhood of 90 Victorian homes, whose owners share a passion for preserving old houses, has become the rebel stronghold against the city's ambitious plans to preserve large swathes of San Francisco in a patchwork of historic preservation zones.
San Francisco's planning and permitting process has long been notoriously laborious. Then, in 2008, voters passed a ballot initiative that transformed the city's Historical Preservation Commission from an advisory body to one with enforcement powers over land use decisions. The measure, backed by Aaron Peskin, the outgoing Board of Supervisors president, was seen as a coup de grace by the antidevelopment members of the board who had risen in power during the 2000s.
Meanwhile, the Planning Department was evaluating more areas to see if they should be added to the 11 existing districts. As more buildings were included in potential landmark districts, and thus subject to additional review by planning officials, more architects and homeowners worried that city staff members were overextending their reach.
In 2009 the Board of Supervisors considered legislation, also backed by Mr. Peskin, who by then was Democratic County Central Committee president, that opponents feared would have allowed any citizens' group with the term ''historical preservation'' in its bylaws to block construction projects for 180 days. The city's building trades unions were so concerned about the proposal that they picketed a Central Committee meeting.
That legislation was delayed, but the issue of how historical preservation will be put into effect here has been creeping back into San Francisco politics.
Historical preservationists have identified potential new targets in far-less obvious places than Duboce Park. Proposed landmark areas, some already under Planning Department consideration, include car dealerships along Van Ness Avenue, described by preservationists as ''automobile support structures.'' They include industrial neighborhoods in the South of Market and Mission districts, and in Showplace Square.
For some historic building buffs, however, the Duboce Park backlash raises the question: If city preservationists cannot obtain support for preserving a pristine cluster of Victorian houses, will they be able to proceed with seemingly more controversial plans to keep development out of dormant industrial zones?
''It's disappointing we're running into the kind of opposition that we are in a neighborhood that should be just a slam dunk,'' said David Troup, treasurer of the Duboce Triangle Neighborhood Association, which contains the four blocks surrounding Ms. Beckstead's house and has for years been pushing for the landmark designation.
Dennis Richards, the neighborhood association's president, added, ''We want people to accept more historic preservation districts in the city, and we don't want to have a battle every time.''
But they are in a battle.
''What you're seeing is months of pent-up aggravation,'' said Jean Paul Balajadia, who so far has spent $3.1 million buying and restoring the 1898 Queen Anne Victorian across the street from Ms. Beckstead, ''of not knowing what they are going to do.''
Mr. Balajadia and a score of his neighbors showed up earlier this month at a neighborhood meeting hosted by Supervisor Scott Wiener to complain about the proposed landmark district.
The Historic Preservation Commission, the Planning Department and the Board of Supervisors will soon consider whether to turn the blocks surrounding Ms. Beckstead's house into historic landmarks. If any one of those groups sides with property owners in the district, the once-grand plans to control construction in central, southern and eastern San Francisco could falter.
''If there are a good number of complaints, this district will just be put on hold, and the others won't progress,'' said Jim Chappell, a planning consultant. ''It's what happens in anything when the pendulum swings too far in one direction; there's an equal and opposite move in the other direction.''
In response to complaints about strict interpretations of historical guidelines, Mr. Wiener has proposed rules that would require polling of residents before a landmark district is created. He has also proposed establishing local historical preservation standards that are less strict than ones used for federal historic landmarks.
Mike Buhler, executive director of San Francisco Architectural Heritage, a leading preservation group, said he was against the proposed rule change. ''The source of our concern is, if you make something discretionary, or optional, you don't have meaningful standards at all,'' he said.
Mary Brown, the Planning Department staff member who is working on plans for the Duboce Park landmark district, said an additional layer of protection is needed to keep homeowners from adding new garages, or destroying old retaining walls, in ways that would undermine the neighborhood's historical integrity.
''It's not just a landmark district, it's historic property,'' Ms. Brown said. ''And there needs to be more care in the design of alterations and additions, to make sure they're compatible.''
But even compatible plans can be frustrated by burdensome regulations, some property owners said.
''I consider myself a preservationist, and I encourage preservation,'' said Robin Levitt, an architect who lives in an 1890s false-front Victorian house in the Hayes Valley neighborhood. Mr. Levitt said he abandoned plans to replace rotted staircases on the front of his house because historic preservation requirements were too expensive and time-consuming.
''When regulations make it prohibitive economically to make improvements on your property,'' Mr. Levitt said, ''it's over the top for me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, a house on Pierce Street
Susan Beckstead and her Victorian home
architectural details of her home
 Pierce Street Victorians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (85%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); POLITICS (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); BALLOTS (62%); REFERENDUMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



21 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: A Year of Solid Gains, and an Outlook for More Ahead

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
DERAILED by a crushing earthquake and tsunami in March, Japanese carmakers will no doubt be glad to put 2011 behind them.
Yet most other auto companies managed to shrug off the year's economic aftershocks, though the effects of supplier outages and the summer's floods in Thailand were felt worldwide. Still, as December waned, carmakers were on pace -- for the second year in a row -- to add more than one million sales in the United States. Analysts from LMC Automotive are projecting sales for 2011 to total 12.7 million, a 9.5 percent bump from last year's 11.6 million.
As a market recovery takes hold, the industry should be feeling like a million for years to come: LMC, which acquired the auto forecasting division of J. D. Power & Associates in November, estimates a steady rise to 13.8 million sales in 2012, 15.4 million in 2013 and 16.2 million in 2014. That would finally restore American sales to prerecession normalcy, if not to the 17.4 million peak of 2000.
Significantly, the Detroit automakers -- leaner and less reliant on boom-or-bust truck sales -- are now reaping healthy profits, even with the industry's volume roughly four million cars lower than it was in more prosperous times. 
At its riverfront headquarters in Detroit, General Motors may be measuring itself for the heavyweight belt. With an estimated 8.4 million in global vehicle sales, including its Chinese partner, S.A.I.C.-G.M.-Wuling, the company is poised to retake the title of world's largest-volume automaker from Toyota. That battered Japanese company, LMC Automotive projects, may slip as low as fourth place, behind Volkswagen and Renault-Nissan.
Despite G.M.'s billions in profits and a 14 percent sales jump in the United States, there were sore spots. With about 7,000 sales in its inaugural year, the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid fell short of G.M.'s confident projection of 10,000.
Though the Volt represents the tiniest green drop of G.M.'s global sales -- about 1 of every 1,200 cars -- the press doggedly pursued a clumsy, all-or-nothing linkage, casting the innovative hybrid as a referendum on G.M.'s revival. It didn't help that in June a Volt caught fire in Wisconsin, weeks after undergoing federal crash tests. G.M. moved quickly to limit the fallout, offering to buy back Volts from customers concerned about the safety of its lithium-ion battery pack. Because lithium-ion chemistry pulses through all modern plug-in hybrids and electric cars, automakers will be carefully monitoring the federal investigation of the Volt's travails.
On that electric frontier, private companies, in partnership with automakers and public agencies, began a historic effort to build a national network of E.V. charging stations. The program, supported by more than $130 million in federal stimulus money and Energy Department grants, provides free home chargers for thousands of E.V. buyers, along with public and workplace charging sites.
With cars like the Volt and the Nissan Leaf actually in showrooms, the public's interest in electric power stepped up. One result was that giants of the industry -- notably Alan Mulally of Ford and Sergio Marchionne of Fiat and Chrysler -- enjoyed relatively quiet years, while a Danish-born former Aston Martin designer found the spotlight.
Henrik Fisker's namesake company, after lengthy delays -- and a $529 million government loan -- has begun delivering a handful of its $100,000 Karma plug-in hybrid sedan to customers. The alluring Karma has received strong early reviews, tempered somewhat by an Environmental Protection Agency fuel economy rating of just 20 m.p.g. when the gasoline engine is generating the electricity. And just last week, Fisker pre-emptively recalled 239 cars, citing a potential fire hazard from improperly positioned coolant hose clamps.
Aptera, another California E.V. start-up, did not even make it to the starting line. Having failed to secure a $150 million federal lifeline, it closed up in December. Aptera's long-shot fantasy was the 2e, a three-wheel capsule that looked like an earthbound helicopter.
Among the big boys, Ford, after basking in bailout-free glory in 2010, was on track to close 2011 with a mere 10 percent sales gain, trailing the reconstituted G.M and Chrysler. Ford's MyTouch, a glitch-prone, hard-to-decipher infotainment system, earned scorn from buyers and Consumer Reports. Customers also gave low marks to Ford's obtrusive automated transmission, which marred a solid redesign of the Focus compact.
Chrysler's honeymoon with its new owner, Fiat, included a 25 percent sales jump from the gutter levels of 2010. And the company's defiantly pro-Detroit Super Bowl commercial, starring Eminem, put a lump in the throat of anyone with a connection to Eight Mile Road, the defining boundary between the tough city and the softer suburbs.
Fiat's celebrity commercials fared less well. To promote its newly immigrated 500 minicar, the Italian brand hired Jennifer Lopez, who set off a minor controversy when it turned out her sentimental Bronx ''homecoming'' had placed a J. Lo body double behind the 500's wheel. Tepid sales of the car also played a role in the removal of Laura Soave from her position as head of the brand in North America.
Volkswagen offered its own coming-to-America tale, opening a $1 billion plant in Tennessee with the help of $570 million in tax breaks, which easily beat out competing come-ons from Alabama and Michigan. The Passat plant helped VW to post a 27 percent sales gain.
While the VW Group aims for an ambitious one million combined sales for VW and Audi by 2018, more than double current levels, a pair of relative upstarts is already there. Hyundai and its sister company, Kia, smashed the million mark for the first time, on pace for about 1.2 million combined sales. John Krafcik, Hyundai's American chief, again wrote his name atop a historically short list: the executive who could do no wrong.
German luxury brands continued their inexorable rise, with Mercedes-Benz likely to edge BMW for the luxury sales crown at roughly 254,000 units. Lexus decisively lost its luxury title, tumbling to barely 190,000 sales.
A further clue that the well-to-do were spending in 2011 came in August, when a record price for a car sold at auction was set: $16.4 million for a 1957 Ferrari Testa Rossa prototype.
As in 2010, when a sour economy culled G.M.'s Pontiac and Ford's Mercury from the herd, weak brands foundered. Just before Christmas 2011, Saab filed for liquidation, eliminating more than 3,000 jobs in Sweden and ending a quixotic rescue attempt by Victor Muller. As the leader and designer of Spyker, the tiny Dutch sports-car maker that swallowed Saab whole, Mr. Muller's refreshing spirit had even cynical industry watchers rooting for a comeback. But it was not to be.
Saab could no longer compete in a global industry that requires massive scale. Brand loyalists will miss its signature style and oddities like an ignition switch placed between the seats.
On the technical front, downsized, fuel-sipping engines, often with a helpful boost from turbochargers or superchargers, continued to sweep the world. BMW and Mercedes began to offer their first 4-cylinder engines here in several years. Even Ford seemed surprised by buyer enthusiasm for its F-150 pickup equipped with a mere 6-cylinder.
Yet in an apparent contradiction, the horsepower wars continued to rage. No sooner had Chevrolet rolled out its 580-horsepower 2012 Camaro ZL1 then Ford promised a 650-horsepower, 200-m.p.h. slap with the 2013 Shelby GT500 Mustang.
Nissan suffered a black eye on the design front. Sure, the company's plants avoided the worst of the tsunami's wrath and its sales rose 13 percent, but it was bashed for its Murano CrossCabriolet. This eye-gouging hodgepodge of crossover and convertible drew a critical pummeling unknown since Pontiac released the Aztek. Salivating auto critics enjoyed an early holiday feast.
Finally, there may be reason to ramp up the celebrations a bit this holiday season. LMC Automotive's projection had 1,033,700 Americans buying new cars in December. That would be the first month to top a million sales since a fleeting spike created by the Cash for Clunkers program in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEADLINERS: Clockwise from right, Eminem in Chrysler's acclaimed Super Bowl spot
the aftermath of flooding at a Honda plant in Thailand
Victor Muller, Saab's would-be rescuer
an electric Mitsubishi i-MiEV in tsunami-ravaged Japan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRYSLER GROUP
NARONG SANGNAK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
BJORN LARSSON ROSVALL/SCANPIX VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
MASASHI KAWATA/CITY OF SOJA) (AU1)
CHANGES: Clockwise from right, VW returned to the United States with a plant in Chattanooga
production of the Ford Crown Victoria ended in September
Laura Soave, shown with Sergio Marchionne, lost her job as head of the Fiat brand in North America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BILLY WEEKS/REUTERS
DAVE CHIDLEY/THE CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 RECORD BREAKER: The $16.4 million Ferrari. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAWEL LITWINSKI/ GOODING & COMPANY) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



22 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Ice Floes, Lessons for Business

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Reinvention and Survival, Circa 1915'' (Dec. 25), Nancy F. Koehn saw several business leadership lessons in the failed expedition of the polar explorer Ernest Shackleton. 
In describing Shackleton and his crew, the article said that ''whatever came before them on the ice, their leader would give his all to bring them home alive.'' Today, however, chief executives fail to understand that this is a leader's primary responsibility.
Corporate tyrants are laying off employees the minute the value of their own stock options threatens to decrease by a penny. Driven by greed, these executives lack what your article called a ''credible commitment to a larger purpose and flexible, imaginative methods to achieve a goal,'' where the larger purpose is the prosperity of the human race as a whole, not the magnitude of their personal portfolios.
Bill Appledorf
San Francisco, Dec. 25
To the Editor:
In the article, Professor Koehn says Shackleton's ability to adapt to new circumstances could be applied to various recent events: the financial crisis of 2008, the gulf oil spill and the Japanese nuclear disaster.
That's not the right message. The right message is a little thinking ahead can prevent crises.
Shackleton led a disastrous misadventure to traverse the South Pole, and didn't listen to warnings. While reacting correctly to a crisis is admirable, thinking ahead to prevent the crisis is a lot better.
Looking at the 2008 financial crisis, why did we previously relax regulations on financial institutions? As for the oil spill, why did we not have strong controls on offshore drilling? And in the case of the nuclear disaster, why build a nuclear plant on the coast in an earthquake zone?
Roger Craine
Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 25
The writer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
To the Editor:
As a retired Latin teacher, I suspect that Shackleton kept in mind a particular scene early in ''The Aeneid'' by Virgil, where a small band fleeing the Greeks' destruction of Troy and newly shipwrecked on unknown land -- wet, hungry and despairing -- is nonetheless rallied to survival by its leader, Aeneas. He assures the group that someday it will recall this moment with something like pleasure.
But Virgil tells us that, even as Aeneas utters these hopeful words, he presses grief deep into his heart, lest his true feelings unnerve his followers.
Hannah Metzger
Chicago, Dec. 27
To the Editor:
When discussing leadership, many people miss one key ingredient: A great leader never accomplishes his goals alone. One of the first principles of leadership is to surround yourself with highly competent people and let them do whatever it is they do best.
In the case of Shackleton's crew, Frank Worsley stands out as such a person. He was instrumental in guiding the small lifeboat from Elephant Island to South Georgia Island to seek help in rescuing the stranded crew. He had to navigate through some of the worst seas in the world, in conditions of unbelievably bad weather.
Ernest Fitzgerald
New Orleans, Dec. 26
The writer is a retired Marine lieutenant colonel.
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK HURLEY/SCOTT POLAR RESEARCH INSTITUTE, UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE, 1915) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CLASSICS (72%); OIL SPILLS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



23 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: When The Idea Machine Stops

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is a founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Three months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Angus Echols, a member of DuPont's executive committee, began shaping the chemical giant's plans for the coming decade. The U.S. would soon be at war, he explained in a series of memos and high-level discussions, and the company needed to aid the effort. But it also needed to think far ahead. When the war ended, Echols argued, women would want to buy cheap stockings. And where was DuPont on this crucial matter?
Echols got his way. While DuPont provided nylon (among other things) to the U.S. military for parachutes and tires, its research department studied how to make stockings on the cheap and did work that eventually led to Orlon and Lycra. And eight days after the Japanese surrender, DuPont announced that it would shift nylon production from war materiel to ladies' undergarments. Not only did veterans have solid jobs to return to, but the company dominated the burgeoning synthetic fiber and plastics business for decades to come. 
The image of thousands of industrial researchers in white lab coats and thick black glasses may seem antiquated, but corporate research and development is more important to our economy now than ever. Whereas a company used to be able to invent some new thing -- nylon stockings, say -- and spend a decade making money off it, today's products have much shorter shelf lives. The venerable Western Electric 500 telephone -- you know, the boxy one with the slanted face for the dial or, later, touch pad -- was developed in 1949 and remained one of the most popular models through the 1980s. Now a phone like the Motorola RAZR or the first-generation iPhone goes from coveted totem to valueless relic (to hipster accessory) in a year or two. I recently visited an Amish buggy auction where salespeople were showing off the awesome features -- easy-clean windows, retractable carved wooden cup holders -- on the new year's model. These days, all successful U.S. businesses have become innovation-based companies.
As consumers, we don't care if our products are invented in the U.S. or in some other country. But as a work force, we should. While much has been written about Chinese factories' stealing U.S. manufacturing jobs and destroying our businesses, the two countries have reached an uneasy, unspoken economic agreement over the past decade. American firms find they can compete with low-cost manufacturing by constantly developing new products. This has worked out well for U.S. companies -- though, notably, not for U.S. manufacturing workers -- because there are much fatter margins in owning the intellectual property of a hot new thing than there is in churning out a huge volume of cheap components. And these higher margins manifest themselves in higher salaries for American workers.
Partly as a result, the U.S. still dominates the world of research and development, as it has for more than a century. The country spends nearly double the annual R.-and-D. budgets of Japan and Germany combined. But China's decadelong rise from a nonplayer in R. and D. to the world's second-largest spender poses a serious threat. A recent study by the Battelle Memorial Institute, a research firm, predicts that China's spending will match ours around 2022. In research terms, that is effectively today.
China already has plans to focus on exciting but vague ideas now -- like green energy and bio- and nanotechnology -- that will most likely become products in the 2020s. And if U.S. government labs, university departments and corporate researchers aren't already on top of the next generation of breakthroughs, the country will very likely fall behind in 10 or 20 years when those innovations become marketable products. Our global competitiveness is based on being the origin of the newest, best ideas. How will we fare if those ideas originate somewhere else? The answers range from scary to scarier. Imagine a global economy in which the U.S. is playing catch-up with China: while a small class of Americans would surely find a way to profit, most workers would earn far less, and the chasm between classes could be wider than ever.
Unfortunately, there isn't much to prevent this trend. Overall government research spending (relative to G.D.P.) has been heading down since its peak in the space-race years of the 1960s. And because it's nearly impossible to imagine Congress significantly increasing research financing, any growth in long-term R. and D. will be, largely, up to the private sector.
And that's the real problem. From a C.E.O.'s perspective, long-term R. and D. is a lousy investment. The projects cost a lot of money and often fail. And even when they work, some other company can come along and copy all the best ideas free. Charles Holliday Jr., the C.E.O. of DuPont who retired three years ago, told me that it's tough to get investors to think more than two years ahead -- at most. ''The stock market pays you for what you can do now,'' he said. As a result, DuPont isn't the only American company changing the way it does R. and D. Corporate research labs at I.B.M., AT&T, Xerox and others have also been slimmed way down or cut altogether.
The government can't simply pass a law forcing companies to think longer-term, of course. But Congress can do other things, like shift incentives away from rampant short-termism. It could, for example, reduce capital-gains taxes on stocks held for many years. Alternately, companies could create different classes of stock, giving more voting rights to those who hold the stocks longer. Another idea popular among businesspeople: enticing foreign Ph.D. students to develop their new ideas in the U.S.
The question of how U.S. companies will make a buck has probably never been more important. With one war over and another winding down, thousands of young men 25 and under, many without college degrees, will soon enter a work force with no place for them. (Their unemployment rate is nearly double the already miserable national average.) We have no idea how an Iraq war veteran will make a living a decade or two from now. We can only hope there is someone still being paid to figure it out.
Deep Thoughts This Week:
1. R. and D. isn't sexy, but it's more important than ever.
2. The U.S. has perennially dominated the business.
3. So what happens when China starts coming up with most of the world's best ideas and manufacturing them, too?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTIAS ADOLFSSON) (MM11)
 CHART: A survey of 388 R. and D. executives and researchers on the decline of U.S. technological leadership (SOURCES: BATTELLE AND R&D MAGAZINE) (MM12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (90%); NYLON (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LINGERIE (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); SMARTPHONES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); PLASTICS (52%)

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (95%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (95%); DD (NYSE) (95%); MSI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (95%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



24 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/RIDGEWOOD, QUEENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Architectural Eye Candy

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to areas awash in well-kept old buildings, Ridgewood, in west-central Queens, might not come to mind as quickly as, say, Brooklyn Heights.
But maybe it should. Its two square miles are packed with eye-catching designs; about 10 percent of it -- 350 buildings -- has landmark status, even if it isn't on the radar of most New Yorkers. And with an additional 940 buildings coming up for a vote before the Landmarks Preservation Commission in the next two years, Ridgewood could soon have nearly 1,300 with landmark status -- about the same number as Brooklyn Heights -- which would mean 40 percent of its cityscape was protected.
One doesn't have to be an architecture buff to note what makes the area special. Thick dark-brick arches encircle windows on row houses, turning what could be humdrum rectangles into openings that look as if they belonged in a castle.
On 60th Street, near Bleecker Street, this Romanesque Revival style is displayed in gray arches against brown walls; across the street, the arches are a mottled orange. Along Putnam Avenue, near Woodward Avenue, they are a bit squared off, while on Forest Avenue -- on the facade of a rare standalone, a former mansion -- they are decorated with women's faces. 
Of the 62,000 residents, some are pleased that the outside world is discovering this architectural beauty, and others worry that the landmarks panel may go too far. ''There's apprehension,'' said Joe Haufe, a computer consultant and longtime resident involved in community groups. ''Neighbors ask me, 'What does this all mean?' '' Some neighbors are afraid satellite dishes will have to come down; Mr. Haufe is wondering whether a metal fence in his backyard can stay. (Landmarks designations can apply to the backs of homes as well as the fronts, a commission spokeswoman confirmed.)
Mr. Haufe lives in a five-bedroom 1910 two-family owned since 1940 by the family of his wife, Elaine Tramposch-Haufe. With original pocket doors and a new roof, it could sell for $545,000, based on a recent appraisal, he said.
The alternative to landmark protection, he acknowledged, can engender problems of its own. He cited two properties on Madison Street with vinyl siding covering their cornices. The change seemed to have been made to avoid having to repaint.
Still, considering how many different populations have lived in Ridgewood and moved on, wear and tear is to be expected. First there were Germans, who built the area in the early 1900s; they were followed by the Gottscheers, a European group dislocated in the aftermath of World War I. Mid-20th-century arrivals included Romanians and Yugoslavs; more recently, Dominicans put down roots in the western section. A decade ago, it was Poles who arrived in droves, uprooted by gentrification in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.
Currently, the area is attracting a different type of emigre: artists priced out of Williamsburg in search of cheaper lofts, which they have discovered along Ridgewood's gritty edges.
Since 2003, Roman Popescu, a developer, has lived in a 2,500-square-foot loft at a former train-engine shop, near the border with Bushwick, Brooklyn. His parents, who are from Romania, ran a knitting mill in the building, which cost $250,000 in 1994. Mr. Popescu convinced them it had greater potential for artists, so they converted it.
''Williamsburg became as crowded as Union Square, and artists need great big spaces,'' said Mr. Popescu, who now has all 13 spaces leased to artists or artisans, some of whom also live on site. He is seeking a zoning change to allow nonartists to reside there, too.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The Romanesque buildings basically come in two flavors: two-units with bay windows, and six-units with flat fronts. It is rare to find one taller than three stories; the low skyline leaves many sidewalks bright with light all day.
Many buildings have modest stoops. Others, as on 70th Avenue near 60th Lane, have porches, a few enclosed. They face quiet sidewalks with evenly spaced trees, on blocks that end at nail salons or bars, like the Windjammer, at Bleecker and Grandview Avenue.
In much of Queens, owner-occupied single-family homes are the rule. But Ridgewood is for renters, who according to census figures account for 75 percent of the housing stock -- compared with 57 percent in the borough as a whole. Ridgewood beats out even Manhattan, where renters total 70 percent.
Condominiums, so far, are rare, though a 32-unit building called High View Estates, at 1980 Starr Street, is being marketed by Coldwell Banker Phillips. Two-bedrooms start at $369,000, said Lou Pastorini, a sales manager.
People disagree about exact borders. In fact, the issue of where Bushwick begins has even aroused some disputes. For years, Bushwick and Ridgewood shared a post office and a ZIP code, 11227. In the 1970s, high crime rates and arson plagued Bushwick, while Ridgewood was unscathed. But Ridgewood residents saw their car and fire insurance rates climb all the same, based on what was happening around them.
Ultimately, with the help of Congresswoman Geraldine A. Ferraro, the neighborhood broke away in 1980 and got its own post office, ZIP code 11385.
Bad blood threatened to resurface again a decade ago. Census changes forced a redistricting that mandated a second City Council seat for Ridgewood. But one of those council members would also represent Bushwick, which didn't sit well with many people.
''We have different needs than they do,'' said Paul Kerzner, president of the Greater Ridgewood Restoration Corp., a nonprofit advocacy group largely responsible for the preservation in the area. But, praising the person who won the seat, Councilwoman Diana Reyna, he added, ''Our fears were not realized.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In late December 63 houses were listed, at an average of $683,000, according to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island, though some sales took place between families and friends, brokers say, and thus were not captured.
Those homes ranged from a two-family attached wood-frame, in a short sale, at $359,000, to a red-brick two-family, with storefront below, at $989,000. A more typical property was a 1901 gray-brick two-family, near Linden Hill Cemetery, at $780,000.
Prices have fallen by about 17 percent. In 2011, 26 one- and two-family homes sold, at an average of $479,140, according to listing service data from Maria Collazo, an associate broker at Exit Kingdom Realty. In 2007 there were 42 sales, at an average of $575,652.
Foreclosures account for some of the softening, brokers say. But also, fewer homes have been listed, because in uncertain economic times, units can be rented out. ''They're a great source of income,'' Ms. Collazo said.
Rents, meanwhile, run $1,000 to $1,200 for one-bedrooms, said Victor Celli, a local landlord, who said that as the sales market has weakened, rental demand has been ''crazy.''
THE COMMUTE
The M subway, which has four area stops, reaches Midtown in about 30 minutes. The L, which has two stops, takes 20 minutes to reach 14th Street (where it has several stops, east to west).
Most buses in this border area, predictably, are Brooklyn lines, like the B13, B20 and B38, though there are two express buses, the QM24, which reaches Midtown in about 35 minutes, and the Q25, which reaches Lower Manhattan in an hour.
WHAT TO DO
Myrtle Avenue, the main commercial strip, appears vibrant, though its occupancy rate slipped recently to 95 percent, from 98, said Theodore M. Renz, executive director of the business improvement district, which dates to 1988.
With stores selling discount clothes, boots and jewelry, as well as live carp, which were swimming in a tank outside Green Dot Marketplace on a recent morning, Myrtle also offers many places to unwind, in the form of wooden benches and small angular parks.
Businesses along Fresh Pond cater to the Polish population. Krolewskie Jadlo, a restaurant decorated like a fairytale fortress, has tripe soup, which it serves in an edible ''bowl'' -- a hollowed-out roll.
THE SCHOOLS
One option for elementary school is Public School 71, on Forest Avenue, which teaches through Grade 5 and enrolls 983 students. On state exams last year, 61 percent of fourth graders met standards in math, 43 percent in reading. Citywide, those percentages were 62 and 51 percent.
Ridgewood Intermediate, or Intermediate School 93, teaches sixth through eighth grades.
Grover Cleveland High School, on Grandview Avenue, enrolls about 2,100. SAT averages last year were 429 in math, 401 in reading and 397 in writing, versus 460, 437 and 432 citywide.
THE HISTORY
Border disputes with Brooklyn are nothing new. After the city consolidated in 1898, tensions flared because the border was a razor-straight line cutting through some apartments, which created confusion about who should vote where, said George Miller, the historian at the Greater Ridgewood Historical Society. In 1925, the border was redrawn to run around certain blocks, resulting in the current zigzag pattern.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry for a property on the market with the ''Living In'' article last Sunday, about Ridgewood, Queens, misstated the address.The house is at 18-40 Decatur Street, not Avenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCALLOPS: Houses along 70th Street in Ridgewood, a Queens district that could in two years vie with Brooklyn Heights as a landmark haven. The distinction is appreciated, though there is concern about new curbs on exterior changes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN GROUP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012



25 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: A World in Denial of What It Knows

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT. 
The author of ''The Controversy of Zion,'' ''The Strange Death of Tory England'' and ''Yo, Blair!''

 BODY:
Bath, England
COULD there be a single phrase that explains the woes of our time, this dismal age of political miscalculations and deceptions, of reckless and disastrous wars, of financial boom and bust and downright criminality? Maybe there is, and we owe it to Fintan O'Toole. That trenchant Irish commentator is a biographer and theater critic, and a critic also of his country's crimes and follies, as in his gripping if horrifying book, ''Ship of Fools: How Stupidity and Corruption Sank the Celtic Tiger.''
He reminds us of the famous if gnomic saying by Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the United States secretary of defense, that ''There are known knowns... there are known unknowns ... there are also unknown unknowns.'' But the Irish problem, says Mr. O'Toole, was none of the above. It was ''unknown knowns.'' 
What he means is something different from denial, or evasion, irrational exuberance or excess optimism. Unknown knowns were things that were not at all inevitable, and were easily knowable, or indeed known, but which people chose to ''unknow.''
Unknown knowns were everywhere, from Wall Street to Brussels, from the Pentagon to Penn State. Ireland merely happened to offer an extreme case, where ''everyone knew.'' They just chose to forget that they knew -- about the way that Irish banks ran wild, how easy credit fueled a monstrous explosion of property prices and speculative house-building. Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister at the time of the rapid economic growth, merely boasted, ''The boom is getting boomier,'' preferring to unknow the truth that booms always go bust.
Beginning in 2008, the skies were lighted up by financial conflagrations, from Lehman Brothers to the Royal Bank of Scotland. These were dramatic enough -- but were they unforeseeable or unknowable? What kind of willful obtusity ever suggested that subprime mortgages were a good idea? An intelligent child would have known that there is no good time to lend money to people who obviously can never repay it.
Or recall how we were taken into the Iraq war. That was the origin of Mr. Rumsfeld's curious words 10 years ago. When he murmured about ''things we do not know we don't know,'' he was touching on the unconventional weapons that Saddam Hussein might -- or might not -- have held.
In a sense, Mr. Rumsfeld was more right than he realized. Those of us who opposed the war may be asked to this day whether we knew what weaponry Iraq possessed, to which the answer is that of course we didn't. Nor, as it transpired, did President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld or Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
But that was the wrong question. It should have been not ''what weaponry does Saddam Hussein possess?'' but ''Is Saddam Hussein's weaponry, whatever it may be, the real reason for the war, or is it a pretext confected after a decision for war had already been taken?'' The answer to that was obvious and could have been known to all, but too many people chose to unknow it.
Then there was another unknown known: the likely consequences of an invasion. Shortly before it began, Mr. Blair met President Jacques Chirac of France. As well as reiterating his opposition to the coming war, Mr. Chirac offered the prime minister specific warnings. Mr. Blair and his friends in Washington seemed to think that they would be welcomed with open arms in Iraq, Mr. Chirac said, but that they shouldn't count on it. It was foolish to think of creating a modern democracy in an artificial country with a divided society like Iraq. And Mr. Chirac asked whether Mr. Blair realized that, by invading Iraq, they might yet precipitate a civil war.
This has been described in a BBC documentary by someone present, Sir Stephen Wall, a Foreign Office man then attached to Downing Street. As the British team was leaving, Mr. Blair turned and said, ''Poor old Jacques, he just doesn't get it,'' to which Sir Stephen now adds dryly that he turned out to get it rather better than ''we'' did.
At that time, Mr. Chirac was reviled in America, and his career has just ended in disgrace, with a court conviction for embezzlement. But who was right about Iraq? All the calamities that followed the invasion were not only foreseeable, they were foreseen. And yet for Mr. Blair, as well as Washington, they were unknown knowns.
One more such, bitter as it is to say so when many people have been ruined, was the Bernard L. Madoff fraud. For years, his investors gratefully and unquestioningly accepted returns that were strictly incredible. Loud warning voices sounded. Harry Markopolos, a former investment officer, exhaustively back-analyzed Mr. Madoff's supposed figures by computer. He spent nearly nine years repeatedly trying to explain to the Securities and Exchange Commission that these figures were not merely incredible but mathematically impossible. And still the S.E.C. chose to unknow it. Leos Janacek wrote a harrowing opera called ''The Makropulos Affair''; Peter Gelb at the Met should commission someone to write ''The Markopolos Affair'' as a fable for our times.
In a very different kind of scandal, not everyone at Penn State, and certainly not every fan, knew what had happened in the showers. But quite enough was known by people who could have acted. They chose instead to unknow. And so to another classic unknown known, the euro. The recent summit in Brussels turned into a silly melodrama, with a British prime minister, David Cameron this time, once more playing the pantomime villain. But Mr. Cameron was right, if for the wrong reasons, to oppose the European Union's latest frantic (and doomed) plan to prop up the euro.
If truth be told (but it so rarely is!), the euro cannot work and could never have worked. That is, a single currency embracing countries as diverse in social culture, productivity, work practices and taxation as Germany and Greece, or the Netherlands and Portugal, is economically impossible without much closer fiscal and financial union -- which is politically impossible. Anyone could have known that at the time the euro was introduced, but for the rulers of the European Union it was their very own unknown known.
''The Cloud of Unknowing'' is a medieval classic of mystical writing, and unknowing still hangs over us. It will be a happier new year if we can dispel some of that cloud, try to unknow less, and know a little more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell argued before the United Nations Security Council in 2003 for disarming Iraq, holding the kind of vial that could contain anthrax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY STUBBLEBINE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); WRITERS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); THEATER REVIEWS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (65%); RBS (LSE) (65%); RBS (AMS) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); BERTIE AHERN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); TONY BLAIR (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



26 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: A Year of Me-Firsts, and of Lessons Relearned

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LIVE and learn. And well we should, given that 2011 was packed with teachable moments.
Some of this stuff we already knew. Like the fact that banks love the perks that come with being too big to fail. They will lobby shamelessly to hang on to their riskiest businesses and stay perilously large. No surprise, really. A heads-we-win, tails-the-taxpayers-lose model has a lot going for it, at least for executives atop these institutions.
Here's another lesson we didn't need to relearn: Penalties levied on corporate miscreants, and the legal bills they rack up defending themselves, never come out of their own pockets. Insurance policies and shareholders wind up paying. Another win for the me-firsters. 
And what if you run a company so far into the ground that the federal government has to take it over? Not to worry: the taxpayers may even pay your legal bills. Consider Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Since the two companies collapsed into conservatorship in 2008, taxpayers have advanced about $73 million to pay the legal bills of former executives who are fighting fraud suits and investigations dating back to 2005.
Isn't America great?
Another unfortunate lesson we keep learning over and over is that policy makers always put off tough decisions for another day. Kicking the can down the road is so much more fun and profitable, especially for politicians worried about re-election.
But last year also provided some truly illuminating moments. A favorite was the pronouncement that if Greece were to default on its debts, it wouldn't really count as a default at all. That determination meant that investors who had bought insurance against a possible default would be out of luck. Their policies wouldn't pay off as expected.
Who ginned up this nondefault default? A secret committee of bankers who call the shots in the world of credit default swaps. These people happen to work for big banks that probably sold the insurance and, as a result, would be on the losing end if a Greek default were actually called a default.
It sure is good to run the Wall Street branch of the Ministry of Truth.
Another eye-opener came courtesy of the folks at MF Global, the trading house and derivatives dealer overseen by Jon S. Corzine, the former New Jersey senator and governor and former chief executive of Goldman Sachs. Investors were shocked to learn that MF Global, a supposedly legitimate brokerage firm, was so lax about its affairs that hundreds of millions of customer dollars simply vanished. Months after MF Global failed, an army of investigators is still searching for the missing money.
Washington politicians can usually be relied upon to educate the citizenry -- again and again. Last year was no exception. One telling moment came late in the year, when Democrats and Republicans agreed to extend an existing payroll tax cut for two months. Helping to defray the cost was $36 billion generated through an increase in mortgage guarantee fees charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
That $36 billion will come out of borrowers' hides, of course. But using Fannie and Freddie as a money spigot sent a powerful message: Never mind that losses at these mortgage giants have cost taxpayers $150 billion so far. Or that many Americans would prefer these toxic twins to go out of business sooner rather than later. As long as Fannie and Freddie are viewed as piggy banks, there is little chance that Congress will dissolve them. It looks as if these taxpayer-owned zombies, which did so much damage to our economy, are poised to live on and on.
Finally, it was in 2011 that the ugliest paradox of the financial crisis became clearer. That is, some of the very people our government had pushed to embrace the American dream of homeownership -- minority groups, lower-income borrowers, immigrants and others previously shut out of the market -- were the very people hurt the most by the foreclosure mess. Washington's push to increase homeownership opened the door for companies to sell poisonous and tricky loans that have now imperiled many of the most vulnerable.
This became painfully evident in a discrimination suit filed by the Justice Department against Countrywide, once the country's largest mortgage lender. The suit, filed in December, was based on investigators' findings that more than 200,000 minority borrowers had been charged higher fees and rates by Countrywide than white borrowers of similar financial standing.
The Justice Department also said that Countrywide steered more than 10,000 minority borrowers into high-cost subprime mortgages even as white borrowers received standard, lower-cost loans. The company's systems, investigators said, allowed loan officers and mortgage brokers to change the terms of mortgages without complying with fair-lending rules.
Bank of America, which bought Countrywide in 2008, agreed to pay $335 million to settle the suit. The events cited in the lawsuit occurred before its purchase of Countrywide.
But the facts assembled by the Justice Department certainly shed new light on Countrywide's boasts of eliminating barriers to minority homeownership. Its House America program, which committed $600 billion in loans for low-income borrowers in 2003, won plaudits for Angelo R. Mozilo, Countrywide's co-founder.
The next year, Mr. Mozilo was named Housing Person of the Year by the National Housing Council Conference. ''We commend his leadership,'' said G. Allan Kingston, the group's chairman at the time, adding that it ''led to the company becoming one of the top lenders to African-Americans and Hispanics, a direct result of his clear understanding that we must do more to ensure affordable homeownership opportunities throughout the nation.''
As I said: live and learn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



27 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2191 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Will a Third Party Help?

 BODY:
A letter writer's call for a centrist third party to help ease our political dysfunction was met with both praise and skepticism.
The Letter
To the Editor:
Why does America have only two political options? Every day, the news from Washington showcases the inability of our two political parties to govern effectively.
Rigid partisanship has repeatedly hindered or prevented Republicans and Democrats from reaching compromise solutions on vital legislation, provoking a crisis of confidence in our political and economic system. And elected officials beholden to lobbyists and special interests allow their priorities to supersede those of ordinary citizens.
The economy is stagnant, unemployment remains high, and budget deficits and the national debt keep climbing. Yet no answers are forthcoming from our representatives in Washington. The continuing dysfunction reinforces the need for a third party of the center as an alternative to the current parties. 
Using the Internet and social networks to organize and raise money from small donors, this new centrist party could be independent of the special interests and able to work for the benefit of all Americans. Its hallmarks would be ethical conduct, transparency and pragmatism. Instead of being constrained by ideology, it would be guided by common sense and practicality in its search for solutions.
A centrist third party could prosper in today's political environment and end the stalemate in Washington. There is a large body of moderate Republicans, disaffected Democrats and dissatisfied independents looking for the kind of political home that this party could provide. Unhappiness with the political options now available to Americans will sooner or later translate into a groundswell for alternatives.
ROBERT A. LEVINE Westport, Conn., Dec. 23, 2011
The writer is a neurologist and the author of ''Resurrecting Democracy: A Citizen's Call for a Centrist Third Party.''
Readers React
Dr. Levine calls for a centrist third party to ''end the stalemate in Washington.'' There is little historical evidence that third parties have ever accomplished that goal. The Progressive Party of Theodore Roosevelt, the American Independent Party of George Wallace, the Independent Party of John Anderson and the Reform Party of Ross Perot did not end legislative stalemates, and none achieved sustainability.
It is estimated that a quarter of Americans consider themselves independents. But this independent constituency is quite heterogeneous and would be unlikely to coalesce into a united, cohesive third party.
Any efforts to form a third party would likely result in splintering into multiple, smaller parties, each with its own agenda. One only has to look at the European parliamentary systems to appreciate the inherent inefficiencies of multiple political parties. The growing body of independents would be better served by leveraging their increasing influence within the current two-party system.
KEVIN R. LOUGHLIN Boston, Dec. 28, 2011
I agree with Dr. Levine that a party guided by pragmatism rather than ideology is what our country needs. I'm not sure if ''centrist'' is the correct orientation. Much of the problem with today's Republican and Democratic parties is that they cast too wide a net and represent no one effectively. I believe that they are both effectively centrist. Both parties campaign at the extremes and govern in the center, and I find very little to actually distinguish one from the other.
Instead of trying to recruit centrists from the Republicans and the Democrats into a new party, I'd like to see two or more new parties that would siphon off the Tea Party-libertarian constituency, the progressive constituency and even the religious constituency. This would leave healthier Republican and Democratic parties, and allow people to more realistically vote their conscience. It's likely that no party would win a clear majority, and the resulting governing coalitions would be a more honest representation of the will of the people.
For any such multiparty plan to work, we will have to have major campaign finance reform, and a complete reworking of the election laws that give special privileges to the two major parties.
TIMOTHY TAYLOR Lathrup Village, Mich., Dec. 28, 2011
As a political consultant who worked to help Ross Perot craft his message for his 1996 campaign, I know the electoral rules of the game are rigged against third parties. An independent candidate for president has never won. The key to change is not the presidency; it is the House. Reformers need to win only a small number of Congressional seats to give them the balance of power in organizing the next House.
Reformers can concentrate on just 30 to 40 competitive Congressional districts. Primary elections in competitive districts attract larger numbers of candidates, so the winner needs fewer votes -- often a plurality, not a majority. And primaries have vastly reduced turnout.
These two factors allow an organized group of reform-minded voters to ''take over'' a handful of close primaries in the two major parties. The third party can ask its followers to vote for the reform candidate whom it endorses within both the Democratic and the Republican primaries.
FRANK RICHTER Detroit, Dec. 28, 2011
No, it is not time for a third party. Third-party politicians are just as corruptible as Republicans and Democrats. They may sprout like innocent little flowers from the fertile soil of the Internet, but just like Republicans and Democrats, they will grow up groveling for big campaign donations, letting corporate lobbyists tell them how to vote, and walking through the revolving door to lucrative influence-peddling jobs when they leave office.
It would be better for Republicans and Democrats to try to reform their own parties and the campaign finance system than to indulge in wishful thinking about third parties.
KEN FREEDLAND St. Louis, Dec. 28, 2011
The reason democracy in the United States is in gridlock right now is not for lack of centrists -- after all, Barack Obama campaigned and has governed as a moderate -- but because the right is using gridlock as a campaign tactic. It's hard to imagine how having a new third party would suddenly cause right-wing Republicans to abandon obstructionist tactics, when those very tactics continue to win them support from their conservative base.
How can anyone look at our political landscape and conclude that what we need is more of the centrism that got us into this mess? After all, the economic crisis would not have happened if Democrats had not moved to the right to allow deregulation of the financial industry and regressive tax policies.
What America does need, and what we're finally getting in the form of the Occupy movement, is a grass-roots revolt against the political and economic corruption that has left America's poor and middle-class majority without a voice. In other words, the emergence of a left-wing, progressive third party.
PAUL MOONEY San Francisco, Dec. 28, 2011
The inability of Democrats and Republicans to govern together will not be resolved by resort to a third party. The structural and financial barriers are too high, and the potential for further splintering an already divided electorate too great.
Rather, we need voters to participate in the two-party system. The rise of the independent voter has left the major parties' nomination processes in the hands of the extremes of both parties. If these politically diverse independents participated in the nomination processes of the two major parties, they would have a moderating influence at both political extremes. We would once again have a system that produced liberal, moderate and conservative Republicans and Democrats, able to come together and govern.
BARBARA E. TAYLOR Arlington, Va., Dec. 29, 2011
Just like every other industrialized country, the United States has many political parties -- Green, Libertarian, Socialist, American Independent, to name a few. Unlike other industrialized countries, the media recognize only two political parties, only two are allowed in debates, only two get millions of dollars in campaign donations, and only two are represented in our national government.
Today, as rarely before, the United States faces serious challenges, yet our political system has room only for the Democrats, whose nostrums were tried and failed in the 20th century, and the Republicans, whose nostrums were already outdated in the 19th.
To meet the challenges of the 21st century, the United States needs some fundamental rethinking and restructuring. Democracy can produce successful solutions, but only if there's real debate where all legitimate views are given a fair hearing. It's time for the media to stop pretending that Democrats and Republicans represent the total political spectrum.
DAVID FAIRLEY San Francisco, Dec. 28, 2011
The writer is treasurer of the San Francisco Green Party.
A third political party is a terrible idea:
As the history of third parties in the United States illustrates, not only do they have no chance to win, but they can also lead to a result at odds with most third-party voters' likely second choice. (See Bush v. Gore v. Nader, 2000.)
Based on the polls I've seen, it's not true, as Dr. Levine asserts, that ''there is a large body of moderate Republicans.''
The ''rigid partisanship'' that Dr. Levine describes is a characteristic of the obstructionist Tea Party-led Republicans, not the ready-to-compromise Democrats.
The current Democratic Party is as centrist a party as I could imagine. We would be a lot better off if the few moderate Republicans would come into the Democratic Party's ''big tent.''
DAVID JASPEN Bronx, Dec. 28, 2011
Dr. Levine's call for a third party is well intentioned but misguided. This country doesn't need a centrist third party because that is what the Democratic Party largely is. What this country needs is not only a third party, but also a fourth and fifth party with the possibility of many more.
Our system of winner-take-all politics is the problem. We need a parliamentary-style democracy and runoff elections on top of oodles of campaign finance reform. This will not happen any time soon, or at all if we continue hyping mythical centrism.
So instead of a third party that would simply average the bad ideas that come out of Washington under the guise of centrism, let's advocate a fairer system that lets all voices in our country be represented, and let the politicians form coalitions to get the job done.
ZAC EICHMEYER Denver, Dec. 28, 2011
The Writer Responds
A centrist third party can be the answer to the seemingly intractable problems the nation faces today. Extreme partisanship and corruption make the current parties unable to provide cogent solutions.
In answer to Mr. Loughlin, history is not necessarily a guide to the future in terms of electoral politics, as changing circumstances can lead to different outcomes. Third parties in the past never confronted the gridlock, partisanship and dysfunction that exist in Washington today. And past third-party movements have usually been constructed around a single person or issue. These parties never prospered over the long run because their platforms did not have broad national appeal, or because their leaders lost interest.
I agree with respondents like Mr. Freedland, who cast money and special interests as the villains in politics. But they are not going to go away as long as the Republicans and the Democrats hold power. The current parties are not going to relinquish their stranglehold on the political system voluntarily by agreeing to reform measures that will reduce their advantageous positions. The only way true electoral, campaign finance and ethical reform will be enacted is through a third party that is not in thrall to the special interests.
In response to Mr. Mooney and others who say that a third party needs to be progressive rather than centrist, I believe that the two are not mutually exclusive. As this new party would be guided by pragmatism and not constrained by ideology, on some issues it might veer to the left and on others to the right. In some areas, big government might be seen as the problem and in others as the solution. Market-based answers might work for some problems and worsen others.
When a centrist third party emerges, it will have to organize and be able to compete on a municipal, district, state and national level to gain credibility. And Mr. Richter's idea that a centrist third party should contest Congressional seats in order to hold the balance of power has validity. Even if a third party were able to have its candidate take the presidency, he or she would still have to deal with a gridlocked Congress.
The bottom line is that America's political system is broken and needs to be fixed if the nation is to deal successfully with the challenges ahead. Since the Republicans and the Democrats show no interest in more than cosmetic changes, repair has to come from outside. A third party of the center that is pragmatic and emphasizes transparency and ethics is needed to accomplish the necessary reforms.
ROBERT A. LEVINE Westport, Conn., Dec. 29, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PART & PARCEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); ETHICS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



28 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK IN PREVIEW 2012; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Environment

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
The biggest environmental decision for New York State in 2012 will be how to regulate drilling for natural gas on the Marcellus Shale, the rich gas field that stretches from New York to Virginia, using the extraction method known as hydrofracking. 
Even though drilling will be banned in watersheds supplying New York City's drinking water, public opposition to hydrofracking is strong both in the city and in the areas upstate where the new industry promises economic rewards while posing risks to the environment and water supplies. The Cuomo administration is accepting public comments on its environmental impact document and proposed drilling regulations until Jan. 11. Then the Department of Environmental Conservation will prepare to release its final rules and start issuing drilling permits.
But given the charged atmosphere and the agency's own budget and staff constraints, the timing, size and scope of any hydrofracking program are still very much up in the air.
Closer to home, a new recycling plant is scheduled to open in Brooklyn near the end of the year or in the first half of 2013, making it possible for the city to recycle plastics like yogurt cups that residents now have to toss in the garbage.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's efforts to increase the energy efficiency of buildings may also get significant help. Under a proposal being reviewed by community and borough boards in advance of the City Council, the city would strike certain zoning and energy-code requirements to make it easier for property owners to build energy-efficient buildings and make improvements like adding insulation to exterior walls and installing awnings, skylights, green roofs and solar panels. MIREYA NAVARRO

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CITIES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (73%); WATER QUALITY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MAYORS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



29 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Dumbo On His Mind

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WHEN a scruffy young man in a tattered sweater stepped up to the podium at the annual fall lunch of the Brooklyn Real Estate Roundtable, he looked more Silicon Valley entrepreneur than big-city real estate tycoon.
But there was little chance that any of the high-powered executives, politicians, bankers and industry bigwigs in the room did not know who he was.
The speaker was Jed Walentas, 37, the dauphin of the house of Walentas and a son of David Walentas, who almost single-handedly created Dumbo, taking millions of square feet of former factory and warehouse space between the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges and building one of the most expensive neighborhoods in Brooklyn.
The empire the father built through his company, Two Trees Management, is now in the hands of a son. And like other scions of powerful New York real estate families -- the Rudins, the Dursts, the LeFraks -- the younger Mr. Walentas will play a powerful role in shaping the city. His sphere of influence includes not only Dumbo, but neighborhoods stretching from the West Side of Manhattan to Fort Greene, Brooklyn. 
Walking around the bustling streets of Dumbo, Mr. Walentas said he wanted to find ways to better connect Downtown Brooklyn with the thriving neighborhoods that ring it. With so many college-age students attending classes -- but often not living -- in that section of Brooklyn, he said it mystified him that more hadn't been done to keep them there. Zoning that requires developers to provide public housing as part of their projects is the best way to keep neighborhoods diverse, in his view. But he also said that affordable housing should not mean cheap housing, which is one reason he cited for his willingness to spend money on well-known architects to design his projects.
Mr. Walentas, whose daily uniform usually consists of a hoodie and jeans, lives in an art-filled SoHo loft with his wife, Kate, a photographer, and their newborn son, Theo. At Two Trees, he has assembled a small, tightknit group of people in their 30s to work with him. They are as much friends as employees, including his college roommate, Amish Patel, who is now his No. 2.
Over the last few years, even as the economy has continued to sputter, this team has started work on a number of ambitious projects. The list includes Mercedes House, the sprawling $600 million ziggurat-shaped building designed by Enrique Norten on the West Side of Manhattan, which will have 700 rental units and 160 condos when finished.
Others on the list: a 72-room hotel on the edge of Williamsburg that will feature a restaurant and a rooftop bar; a mixed-use building that has yet to break ground just south of the Brooklyn Academy of Music that will have 350 rental apartments and 50,000 square feet of cultural space; and a controversial, long-planned condominium building on Dock Street in Dumbo that in its latest iteration is to house a public middle school.
Bruce Ratner, the president of the Forest City Ratner Companies, which is developing the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, said he had watched Mr. Walentas grow more confident as he took control of the company.
''What is really interesting about David and Jed is that they both have a vision for what they want,'' he said. He pointed to other large-scale development projects across the city, saying the extent of their success had been dependent on the developer's vision.
''Battery Park City is a great place,'' Mr. Ratner said, ''but it does not have the same sense of character'' as Dumbo. Rockefeller Center, on the other hand, has a definitive sense of character, because ''the Rockefellers had some idea of what they wanted that place to be.''
In Dumbo, he said, the guiding vision was to retain the area's industrial flavor (without the industry), while providing a street-level experience both diverse and interesting -- even if it means subsidizing rents for small-business owners and declining the high rents offered by big-box stores, or selling off properties and cashing out.
''Jed holds firm to the vision,'' Mr. Ratner said. ''And that is not a minor comment.''
The Walentases have won admirers for their attention to the aesthetic details of their developments, and for supporting artists, whom they encouraged early on to move to Dumbo. But the family have also made some enemies along the way.
Judy Stanton, the executive director of the Brooklyn Heights Association, has battled with both David and Jed Walentas over numerous projects.
''I think Jed has better manners -- which is not to say he is well mannered -- than his father,'' she said. ''He does not come up to people out of the blue and say really crude, rude things.''
David Walentas, whose shirt cuffs bear not his monogram but his motto, ''No Guts No Glory,'' makes no apologies for the battles he has waged. ''I was the lone ranger out there at war with everyone,'' he said, noting that his success had allowed his son the luxury of patience.
But critics like Ms. Stanton still get under his skin. ''They are up there on the hill, holier than thou,'' he said. ''But if it had been up to them, there would be no Dumbo.''
Jed Walentas is the first to acknowledge that he has not had to fight and scrap his way to the top as his father did. ''We had this massive head start,'' he said.
The condominium proposed for Dock Street has met with an outcry from community groups worried about the impact it will have on the view from the Brooklyn Bridge.
''The bridge is set off so beautifully by the fact that there are not tall buildings around it,'' Ms. Stanton said in an interview.
In 2004, when Two Trees proposed the Dock Street project, an 18-story residential building on the site of St. Ann's Warehouse, city officials shot it down amid fierce opposition.
But Two Trees did not give up, and on the latest go-round, with Jed Walentas at the helm, it aggressively courted community groups from poorer neighborhoods, promising to build a public school. And with the project stalled, the company was able to buy a neighboring building, which allowed it to tweak the design.
This time Mr. Walentas won approval. The proposed building is now 17 stories high and set back slightly. A lawsuit has since held up construction, but he hopes the way will be clear by summer.
When he joined Two Trees in 1998, Jed Walentas played a central role in selecting the kinds of retail outlets that would give Dumbo a distinctive ambience. He sees it as the duty of the younger generation to be more assertive in defending the real estate industry and what it means to New York.
''The older generations are less interested in really battling on certain issues,'' he said. ''They are, rationally, extremely risk-averse, and they will often choose comfort over progress. I think the public and the elected officials underappreciate how genuinely civic-minded the real estate industry is and how closely aligned the long-term interests of the city are with our industry.''
Several weeks ago, when the Occupy Wall Street movement was nearing its peak, he explained why he thought his way of making money was very different from what others do to create wealth.
''Unlike someone on Wall Street, who can make a lot of money in New York and then move on,'' he said, ''we are in it for the long term.'' He was standing in the construction zone for the second phase of Mercedes House, so named because the ground-floor commercial space is leased to a Mercedes-Benz dealership. ''This building will be here for a hundred years. It's not like we can load it onto a 747 and move it. And for it to be successful, the neighborhood needs to be successful.''
Still, there is no getting around the fact that new construction in New York's prime neighborhoods is geared toward the wealthy.
When David Walentas bought two million square feet of space in Dumbo in 1981, he paid $12 million. Today, a single penthouse apartment in the ClockTower building in that neighborhood is listed for $23 million.
So it comes as little surprise that developers are often accused of creating playgrounds for the privileged.
The younger Mr. Walentas said he understood the concern. But, he argued, it is the conditions surrounding new construction that often drive up costs for everyone.
''The reason real estate is so expensive is because it is so difficult to build,'' he said.
The best way to keep costs down across the board, he added, is an aggressive approach to changing zoning laws -- specifically, rezoning land in transitional neighborhoods to allow for housing. More supply, he declared, will translate to lower prices. Even so, the ultimate success of both his projects and the city depends on continuing to attract a diverse group of talented people.
''What New York cannot become is homogenous,'' he said. ''We need to find ways for the world's most curious and interesting and passionate and energetic people to come here and explore themselves and their ideas.''
Although Mr. Walentas is now fully engaged in the real estate world, he was not always sure he would go into the family business.
At the University of Pennsylvania, he worked as a sports reporter for the campus paper. When he graduated in 1997, he was offered a job at The New York Post.
But he turned down working the night shift on the sports desk to take a day job with Donald Trump.
''I had no concept of what I was doing, but a weird amount of confidence,'' Mr. Walentas said.
The men do not seem natural soul mates. Mr. Trump, known for building his own brand as much as buildings, is not shy about displays of wealth and status. Mr. Walentas says he doesn't see the point in putting his name on buildings, and wears his wealth lightly. But the two clicked and still speak very highly of each other.
After a year, Mr. Walentas went to work at his father's company. Now, he said, his father is largely hands-off, involved in only a small number of major decisions and some details that interest him personally.
''I have been very good at letting go,'' David Walentas said. ''A lot of people want to hang on and dominate. I think you have to let people burn their fingers and skin their knees a little bit.''
With the advantages he has been given, Jed Walentas said, he believes it is important to give back, and he supports projects involving education, cultural institutions in Brooklyn, and art in public spaces. He has hired Lisa Kim, an art adviser, to guide him in that effort.
He said that if his wife did not keep him in check, their loft, an old theater space that he converted himself, would be even more crammed with art.
His one ''absurd'' purchase, he said, was the vintage bubble hockey game he keeps in his home office.
''I was totally obsessed with that game as a kid,'' he said. ''My grade-school friends still come over and we act like we did when we were playing it in arcades at age 12. I think we were better then, though.''
Snapshot: METS OR YANKEES? ''I am a huge Yankees fan. I have only missed one home playoff game since 1981.'' WHAT HE DRIVES A Land Rover to work in Dumbo every day, so he can take his dog, Phoebe, with him. WHEN AND WHAT HE COOKS Occasionally. ''I make a very good sliced steak on the grill during the summer and a very good goat-cheese-and-onion tart for my vegetarian wife.'' FAVORITE SOHO RESTAURANT ''Giorgione is our local favorite.'' WHAT HE DOES FOR FUN Heli-skiing. WHAT HIS MOTHER THINKS OF WHAT HE DOES FOR FUN ''I hate that he goes heli-skiing,'' Jane Walentas says. ''The first time out there was an avalanche.''; Punch List: UNDER CONSTRUCTION Mercedes House, Manhattan 53rd Street and 11th Avenue A mixed-use building with 700 rentals and 160 condos First residential phase occupied beginning May 2011; second phase opening June 1 Wythe Hotel, Williamsburg, Brooklyn 80 Wythe Avenue A 50,000-square-foot building with 72 hotel rooms, opening May 1 RECENTLY COMPLETED 25 Washington Street, Dumbo 104 rental apartments, 20 percent affordable Currently leasing PLANNED Dock Street, Dumbo A 400,000-square-foot mixed-use building with about 300 residential apartments and a public middle school Construction to begin this summer or fall 30 Washington Street, Dumbo 100 rental apartments in a renovated building, 20 percent affordable Construction to begin this summer BAM South, Downtown Brooklyn A 400,000 square-foot mixed-use building with 350 residential rental apartments Construction expected to begin 2013/14

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE HEIGHTS: Jed Walentas, 37, the head of Two Trees Management, on the roof of the company's offices in Dumbo, Brooklyn. (RE1)
THE WALENTASES WERE HERE: The skyline of Dumbo, Brooklyn, as seen from the Manhattan Bridge.
 UNDER WAY: Mercedes House, a Two Trees development at 53rd Street and 11th Avenue in Manhattan, is not yet completed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012



30 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Elite Flier Status

 BODY:
To the Editor: Re ''Save your Elite Flier Status While You Can'' (Practical Traveler, Dec. 18), I was seven segments short on Continental to get platinum status (you need 90 segments or 75,000 miles), so I did a crazy mileage run last weekend to get to platinum. All in all, the flights cost $350. The flight attendants were looking at me as if I was nuts, because for each pair of cities, I flew back and forth with the same crew. Saturday was Houston to Dallas to Houston to Austin to Houston; and Sunday was from Dallas to Houston to Austin to Houston. Ah, the crazy things we do to retain status. 
But it really is worth it to board the plane first (for prime overhead space) and for upgrades (I fly probably three weeks out of every month). Lucy Chen
Sugar Land, Tex.
To the Editor: After a lifetime flying United in the United States, and at least twice a year to Asia, enough to maintain premier status, the recent changes mean divorce. Loss of Economy Plus seating at purchase point online is the last straw.
We can assume United will be happy to sell standard coach passengers Economy Plus seats before check-in to any who pay the surcharge. Sorry, United. I'll use up my remaining miles, then shop the other airlines, probably Asia-based, which offer better seats, meals and amenities, and often at a lower price. G. A. O'Connell
Deerfield, Ill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); AIRLINES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



31 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Tragic Island

BYLINE: By ADAM HOCHSCHILD. 
Adam Hochschild is the author of seven books, most recently ''To End All Wars: A Story of Loyalty and Rebellion, 1914-1918.''

 BODY:
HAITI
The Aftershocks of History
By Laurent Dubois
434 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $32.
For the better part of two centuries, outsiders have been offering explanations that range from racist to learned-sounding -- the supposed inferiority of blacks, the heritage of slavery, overpopulation -- for why Haiti remains the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. None of these work: nearby Barbados has a greater population density, and about 90 percent of its people are descended from slaves, yet it outranks all but two nations in Latin America on the United Nations Human Development Index. Neither Barbados nor any other country, however, had so traumatic and crippling a birth as Haiti. 
As a French possession, it was once the most lucrative colony on earth, producing nearly one-third of the world's sugar and more than half its coffee. All, of course, with the labor of slaves. And slavery in the Caribbean was particularly harsh: tropical diseases were rife, there was no winter respite from 12-hour workdays under the broiling sun, and the planters preferred to replenish their labor force by working their slaves to death over a decade or two and then buying new ones. In 1791, what today is Haiti became the scene of the largest slave revolt in history. Over the next 13 years, the rebels fought off three successive attempts to re-enslave them. The first was by local planters and French soldiers, aided by arms from the United States, whose president and secretary of state, George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, were both slave owners horrified by the uprising. The second was by the British, at war with France and eager for fertile sugar land and slaves to work it. And finally, after he took power, Napoleon tried to recapture the territory as a French colony and restore slavery.
Ill-armed, barefoot and hungry, the rebels fought against huge odds: Britain dispatched an armada of 218 ships to the Caribbean, and its troops battled for five years before withdrawing; Napoleon sent the largest force that had ever set sail from France, losing more than 50,000 soldiers and 18 generals to combat and disease. The former slaves lost even more lives defeating these invasions, and no country came to their aid. This blood-soaked period also included a horrific civil war, periods of near famine, and the massacre or flight into exile of most educated people and skilled workers of any color. By the time Haiti declared independence in 1804, many of its fields, towns and sugar mills were in ruins and its population shrunken by more than half. The Haitian Revolution, as it is known today, was a great inspiration to slaves still in bondage throughout the Americas, but it was devastating to the country itself.
For a gripping narrative of that period, there are few better places to turn than ''Avengers of the New World: The Story of the Haitian Revolution,'' by Laurent Dubois, a Duke University scholar of the French Caribbean. Now Dubois has brought Haiti's story up to the present in an equally well-written new book, ''Haiti: The Aftershocks of History,'' which is enriched by his careful attention to what Haitian intellectuals have had to say about their country over the last two centuries.
The history is a tale of much misery, shot through with flashes of hope and bravery. Both the United States and the colonial powers in Europe were profoundly threatened by the specter of slaves who had successfully battled for their freedom; the United States didn't even recognize Haiti for over 50 years. Still worse, France in 1825 insisted that Haiti pay compensation for the plantations taken from French owners. In case the Haitians did not agree, French warships lay offshore. The sum the French demanded was so big that a dozen years later, paying off this exorbitant ransom, and paying the interest on loans taken out for that purpose, was consuming 30 percent of Haiti's national budget. The ruinous cycle of debt continued into the next century.
Seldom, however, can outsiders be blamed for all a country's troubles. More disastrous than foreign interference was that Haiti's birth was such a violent one. Democracy is a fragile, slow-growing plant to begin with, and the early Haitians had experienced none of it, not as subjects of the African kingdoms where many of them were born, not as slaves and not as soldiers under draconian military discipline for over a decade of desperate war. In Haiti's succession of constitutions over its first hundred years, the president sometimes held his post for life, and it's no surprise that one leader began calling himself king and another emperor. Furthermore, the revolution itself had seemed to show that any change in government could take place only through military force. As Dubois sums it up: ''The only way for an outsider to take power -- one that would be used again and again over the course of the 19th century -- was to raise an army and march on the capital.''
Brute force still ruled in the next century, climaxing in the three-decade reign of the Duvaliers, father and son. Their militia, the dreaded Tontons Macoute, spread terror on a scale exceeding anything before, murdering as many as 60,000 people. Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier banned any civic organization that could threaten his control, even the Boy Scouts.
The family's close ties with the United States were immortalized by a famous photograph of Papa Doc and the presidential envoy Nelson Rockefeller waving from the balcony of Haiti's National Palace. During the cold war, a strongman like Duvalier, no matter how brutal, could usually count on American support as long as he was vocally anti-Communist. Father and son understood this well and shrewdly used that knowledge to retain power, as did petty tyrants across Latin America, Africa and Asia.
Deep American meddling in Haiti did not end with the cold war. Dubois, however, devotes only a few pages to the quarter-century since Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) Duvalier was overthrown, and doesn't really tell us what he thinks about the controversial progressive Jean-Bertrand Aristide and the degree to which the United States played a role in his ouster as Haiti's president in 2004. In an otherwise authoritative history, this is a disappointing omission.
Part of this book does feel chillingly up to date, however: its account of the United States Marine occupation of Haiti for some two decades starting in 1915. The occupation was accompanied by high-flown declarations of benevolence, but the real motive was to solidify American control of the economy and to replace a constitution that prevented foreigners from owning land. The Marines' near-total ignorance of local languages and culture sounds all too much like more recent expeditions. American officials declared, accurately enough, that the Haitian government was in bad shape and needed reform. But as the troops on the ground discovered, like their counterparts in Iraq and Afghanistan, no one likes to be reformed at the point of a foreigner's gun. ''We were not welcome,'' wrote one private Dubois quotes. ''We could feel it as distinctly as we could smell the rot along the gutters.'' The Americans soon found themselves fighting off waves of rebellion against their rule. United States troops burned entire villages accused of sheltering insurgents and ruthlessly executed captured rebels or -- does this sound familiar? -- men who might have been rebels; often there was no way to distinguish them from local farmers.
When they finally pulled out, the Marines did leave some roads, clinics and schools behind them. But the occupation's death toll, humiliation and theft of resources, Dubois makes clear, loom far larger in Haitian memory. Even with the best of intentions, which the Marines certainly didn't have in 1915, nation-building is no easy job. Administered less arrogantly and in cooperation with Haitians themselves, aid from abroad can sometimes help, as with the work of the estimable, Creole-speaking Dr. Paul Farmer and his Partners in Health program, which brings health care to the poorest rural areas and helps train Haitian medical workers. But the real freeing of Haiti from the burdens of its past -- a task now made immeasurably greater by the catastrophic earthquake of 2010 -- can be done only by Haitians themselves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. MARINE CORPS/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY, VIA CORBIS (A MARINE INSPECTING A TROOP OF HAITIAN SOLDIERS, 1920)) (BR1)
 Reign of terror: Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier, foreground, relied on the violence of the Tontons Macoute to hold on to power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT W. KELLEY/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) (BR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); ARMED FORCES (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); TROPICAL DISEASES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); SUGAR MFG (69%); FAMINE (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); BARBADOS (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); FRANCE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

TITLE: Haiti: The Aftershocks of History (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



32 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: V.I.P. Perks, Secondhand Stores

BYLINE: By PATRICE J. WILLIAMS

 BODY:
SEPARATE lines had formed outside a 6,000-square-foot warehouse in Long Island City, Queens, on a Saturday: one for general admission, one V.I.P. A man with a clipboard started checking names. Then the select few were in, and the masses continued to wait their turn. They had another hour to lean, shivering, against the wall.
This wasn't a scene at a hot new club, but a November morning outside of Housing Works' Buy the Bag sale, where shoppers are handed a bag to fill with previously owned cashmere sweaters, tweed skirts and Italian handbags for $25. Those paying an extra $5 in advance for a Power Hour ticket, an enticement available since July 2011, were admitted early. 
Thrift stores, once thought of as dusty places where the down-on-their-luck skulked for bargains, are gradually adding perks that impart a more-exclusive feel to the shopping experience, to the delight of patrons and proprietors alike.
''We've been really thrilled with the reaction of the customers,'' said David Raper, the vice president for retail at Housing Works, a nonprofit helping people with H.I.V. or AIDS that has a dozen stores across the city. Power Hour tickets go on sale the Monday before each Buy the Bag event, he said, and have sold out every time. ''For some people, early access and seeing the newest, hottest thing is really important,'' Mr. Raper said.
T. Nicole Merritt, an executive assistant in her early 30s, was one of the 80 customers who bought a Power Hour ticket in November. ''If I can pay five measly dollars to have access, I was sold,'' Ms. Merritt said. She went to a sale before Power Hour existed and was overwhelmed. This time, she said, it was much calmer.
''When I walked up, I went directly to the front. I wanted to make sure I was in the special line,'' said Ms. Merritt, who managed to stuff 30 items into her shopping bag, including an Armani handbag, a Calypso St. Barth dress and several pieces of knitwear from J. Crew.
Secondhand stores around the nation are offering earlier access and better deals -- for a price. The Savers chain, also known as Value Village, has a Super Savers Club, which entitles members to discounts. The chain even started a Stamp Pass for the holidays: after 15 stamps, each awarded after donating or spending $5, a customers receives a 30 percent discount on the next purchase.
The incentive to drop cash is even stronger at B-thrifty, a recently opened store outside Washington, D.C. Shoppers can ''prepay and get paid,'' with a card that ranges from $25 to $100. The $100 card comes with an additional $25.
The thrift-store industry has thrived in a bad economy, growing 5 percent in the last year, according to the Association of Resale Professionals.
But some shoppers say they would shop secondhand in flush times as well as bad. ''My theory is whether you have the money to pay full price or not, why wouldn't you want to get more bang for your fashion buck?'' said Quincy Colman, 41, an habitue of Goodwill, who started thrifting when she was a teenager.
One of the stalwarts of the industry, Goodwill, whose retail sales totaled close to $3 billion in 2010, introduced a Rewards Card that year not that dissimilar from the one at Barneys. ''We wanted to stay connected with loyal customers, the people who support Goodwill,'' said Lauretta Cunningham, Goodwill's senior vice president for retail operations of Greater New York and northern New Jersey, where 30,000 people have signed up for the program. (Each region is operated autonomously; not all offer the card.)
And how does Goodwill reward loyalty? In New York City, with a $10 discount after spending $100. In parts of South Carolina, with 25 percent off after spending $250. And in central Indiana, with 10 percent off for members who spend $20 or more.
According to thrift-store executives, their latest initiatives have included not just perks for V.I.P.'s but cleaner, more organized stores and a friendlier staff.
''There's no doubt about it: customers expect a high standard of customer service'' now, said Mr. Raper, of Housing Works.
Ms. Cunningham agreed.
''We're not Nordstrom,'' she said, ''but we have people who feel our service is like theirs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THRIFTY: A Housing Works Buy the Bag sale in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: USED MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FASHION DESIGNERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



33 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: The Joy of Quiet

BYLINE: By PICO IYER. 
The author, most recently, of ''The Man Within My Head.''

 BODY:
ABOUT a year ago, I flew to Singapore to join the writer Malcolm Gladwell, the fashion designer Marc Ecko and the graphic designer Stefan Sagmeister in addressing a group of advertising people on ''Marketing to the Child of Tomorrow.'' Soon after I arrived, the chief executive of the agency that had invited us took me aside. What he was most interested in, he began -- I braced myself for mention of some next-generation stealth campaign -- was stillness.
A few months later, I read an interview with the perennially cutting-edge designer Philippe Starck. What allowed him to remain so consistently ahead of the curve? ''I never read any magazines or watch TV,'' he said, perhaps a little hyperbolically. ''Nor do I go to cocktail parties, dinners or anything like that.'' He lived outside conventional ideas, he implied, because ''I live alone mostly, in the middle of nowhere.'' 
Around the same time, I noticed that those who part with $2,285 a night to stay in a cliff-top room at the Post Ranch Inn in Big Sur pay partly for the privilege of not having a TV in their rooms; the future of travel, I'm reliably told, lies in ''black-hole resorts,'' which charge high prices precisely because you can't get online in their rooms.
Has it really come to this?
In barely one generation we've moved from exulting in the time-saving devices that have so expanded our lives to trying to get away from them -- often in order to make more time. The more ways we have to connect, the more many of us seem desperate to unplug. Like teenagers, we appear to have gone from knowing nothing about the world to knowing too much all but overnight.
Internet rescue camps in South Korea and China try to save kids addicted to the screen.
Writer friends of mine pay good money to get the Freedom software that enables them to disable (for up to eight hours) the very Internet connections that seemed so emancipating not long ago. Even Intel (of all companies) experimented in 2007 with conferring four uninterrupted hours of quiet time every Tuesday morning on 300 engineers and managers. (The average office worker today, researchers have found, enjoys no more than three minutes at a time at his or her desk without interruption.) During this period the workers were not allowed to use the phone or send e-mail, but simply had the chance to clear their heads and to hear themselves think. A majority of Intel's trial group recommended that the policy be extended to others.
THE average American spends at least eight and a half hours a day in front of a screen, Nicholas Carr notes in his eye-opening book ''The Shallows,'' in part because the number of hours American adults spent online doubled between 2005 and 2009 (and the number of hours spent in front of a TV screen, often simultaneously, is also steadily increasing).
The average American teenager sends or receives 75 text messages a day, though one girl in Sacramento managed to handle an average of 10,000 every 24 hours for a month. Since luxury, as any economist will tell you, is a function of scarcity, the children of tomorrow, I heard myself tell the marketers in Singapore, will crave nothing more than freedom, if only for a short while, from all the blinking machines, streaming videos and scrolling headlines that leave them feeling empty and too full all at once.
The urgency of slowing down -- to find the time and space to think -- is nothing new, of course, and wiser souls have always reminded us that the more attention we pay to the moment, the less time and energy we have to place it in some larger context. ''Distraction is the only thing that consoles us for our miseries,'' the French philosopher Blaise Pascal wrote in the 17th century, ''and yet it is itself the greatest of our miseries.'' He also famously remarked that all of man's problems come from his inability to sit quietly in a room alone.
When telegraphs and trains brought in the idea that convenience was more important than content -- and speedier means could make up for unimproved ends -- Henry David Thoreau reminded us that ''the man whose horse trots a mile in a minute does not carry the most important messages.'' Even half a century ago, Marshall McLuhan, who came closer than most to seeing what was coming, warned, ''When things come at you very fast, naturally you lose touch with yourself.'' Thomas Merton struck a chord with millions, by not just noting that ''Man was made for the highest activity, which is, in fact, his rest,'' but by also acting on it, and stepping out of the rat race and into a Cistercian cloister.
Yet few of those voices can be heard these days, precisely because ''breaking news'' is coming through (perpetually) on CNN and Debbie is just posting images of her summer vacation and the phone is ringing. We barely have enough time to see how little time we have (most Web pages, researchers find, are visited for 10 seconds or less). And the more that floods in on us (the Kardashians, Obamacare, ''Dancing with the Stars''), the less of ourselves we have to give to every snippet. All we notice is that the distinctions that used to guide and steady us -- between Sunday and Monday, public and private, here and there -- are gone.
We have more and more ways to communicate, as Thoreau noted, but less and less to say. Partly because we're so busy communicating. And -- as he might also have said -- we're rushing to meet so many deadlines that we hardly register that what we need most are lifelines.
So what to do? The central paradox of the machines that have made our lives so much brighter, quicker, longer and healthier is that they cannot teach us how to make the best use of them; the information revolution came without an instruction manual. All the data in the world cannot teach us how to sift through data; images don't show us how to process images. The only way to do justice to our onscreen lives is by summoning exactly the emotional and moral clarity that can't be found on any screen.
MAYBE that's why more and more people I know, even if they have no religious commitment, seem to be turning to yoga, or meditation, or tai chi; these aren't New Age fads so much as ways to connect with what could be called the wisdom of old age. Two journalist friends of mine observe an ''Internet sabbath'' every week, turning off their online connections from Friday night to Monday morning, so as to try to revive those ancient customs known as family meals and conversation. Finding myself at breakfast with a group of lawyers in Oxford four months ago, I noticed that all their talk was of sailing -- or riding or bridge: anything that would allow them to get out of radio contact for a few hours.
Other friends try to go on long walks every Sunday, or to ''forget'' their cellphones at home. A series of tests in recent years has shown, Mr. Carr points out, that after spending time in quiet rural settings, subjects ''exhibit greater attentiveness, stronger memory and generally improved cognition. Their brains become both calmer and sharper.'' More than that, empathy, as well as deep thought, depends (as neuroscientists like Antonio Damasio have found) on neural processes that are ''inherently slow.'' The very ones our high-speed lives have little time for.
In my own case, I turn to eccentric and often extreme measures to try to keep my sanity and ensure that I have time to do nothing at all (which is the only time when I can see what I should be doing the rest of the time). I've yet to use a cellphone and I've never Tweeted or entered Facebook. I try not to go online till my day's writing is finished, and I moved from Manhattan to rural Japan in part so I could more easily survive for long stretches entirely on foot, and every trip to the movies would be an event.
None of this is a matter of principle or asceticism; it's just pure selfishness. Nothing makes me feel better -- calmer, clearer and happier -- than being in one place, absorbed in a book, a conversation, a piece of music. It's actually something deeper than mere happiness: it's joy, which the monk David Steindl-Rast describes as ''that kind of happiness that doesn't depend on what happens.''
It's vital, of course, to stay in touch with the world, and to know what's going on; I took pains this past year to make separate trips to Jerusalem and Hyderabad and Oman and St. Petersburg, to rural Arkansas and Thailand and the stricken nuclear plant in Fukushima and Dubai. But it's only by having some distance from the world that you can see it whole, and understand what you should be doing with it.
For more than 20 years, therefore, I've been going several times a year -- often for no longer than three days -- to a Benedictine hermitage, 40 minutes down the road, as it happens, from the Post Ranch Inn. I don't attend services when I'm there, and I've never meditated, there or anywhere; I just take walks and read and lose myself in the stillness, recalling that it's only by stepping briefly away from my wife and bosses and friends that I'll have anything useful to bring to them. The last time I was in the hermitage, three months ago, I happened to pass, on the monastery road, a youngish-looking man with a 3-year-old around his shoulders.
''You're Pico, aren't you?'' the man said, and introduced himself as Larry; we'd met, I gathered, 19 years before, when he'd been living in the cloister as an assistant to one of the monks.
''What are you doing now?'' I asked.
''I work for MTV. Down in L.A.''
We smiled. No words were necessary.
''I try to bring my kids here as often as I can,'' he went on, as he looked out at the great blue expanse of the Pacific on one side of us, the high, brown hills of the Central Coast on the other. ''My oldest son'' -- he pointed at a 7-year-old running along the deserted, radiant mountain road in front of his mother -- ''this is his third time.''
The child of tomorrow, I realized, may actually be ahead of us, in terms of sensing not what's new, but what's essential.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY VIVIENNE FLESHER) (SR1
SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (81%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); CHINA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



34 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Curtains Up for Chicago Stages

BYLINE: By ELAINE GLUSAC

 BODY:
WHEN times are tough, the arts suffer more than most. Pinched pocketbooks -- both corporate and individual -- force institutions to give up ambitious plans to focus on simply staying afloat. But in Chicago, three theaters have recently opened on the north side of the city, seemingly defying economic logic.
The theaters -- UP Comedy Club, the Black Ensemble Theater Cultural Center and Stage 773 -- opened outside of the central downtown area, known as the Loop, where Broadway tours run and the Tony-winning Goodman Theater resides. The off-Loop scene is largely restricted to smaller spaces, often in storefronts where grocers, restaurants or dry cleaners once resided, and, for the most part, offers affordable entertainment, generally under $25 a ticket. The newcomers combine the best of both worlds: nicer places without downtown pricing. 
''Some theaters are seeing cutbacks in corporate and individual donations, but not a drop in ticket sales,'' said Deb Clapp, executive director of the League of Chicago Theaters, a nonprofit. ''We can count on our audience being there.''
The most recent addition is UP (230 West North Avenue, 312-662-4562, upcomedyclub.com), the third stage from the Second City improv group. The $1.4 million site opened in December in the same complex that houses Second City's other theaters in the Old Town neighborhood, roughly two miles north of the Loop. UP is the sketch-driven group's foray into standup comedy, seating 288, most at communal tables before a red-curtained stage. Its programming mixes children's improv matinees and sketch comedy works with solo comics, like Pete Correale this week, performing on weekends. But local fare dominates, including a menu that features Lou Malnati's deep dish pizza and the scripted show ''Second City's History of Chicago.''
''There's lots to laugh about in Chicago whether its politics, the Cubs or the weather,'' said Kelly Leonard, the group's executive vice president.
Four miles north, in the somewhat scruffy Uptown neighborhood, the Black Ensemble Theater Cultural Center (4440 North Clark Street, 773-769-4451, blackensembletheater.org) recently opened, an event that drew Governor Pat Quinn of Illinois and Dionne Warwick. The $19 million theater mounted its inaugural show in mid-November, after five years of fund-raising on the part of the theater from sponsors like the Polk Bros. Foundation.
Previously in the basement of a community center, Black Ensemble more than tripled its space in its new home. Inside, seven musicians play from a raised bandstand above the thrust stage, where the company founder, Jackie Taylor, has reprised ''The Jackie Wilson Story,'' a biography she wrote and directs. The company specializes in musical biographies: coming shows will be devoted to Marvin Gaye, Luther Vandross and James Brown.
Many of Chicago's estimated 250 theaters lack permanent homes, providing potential renters for Stage 773 (1225 West Belmont, 773-327-5252, stage773.com) in the Lakeview neighborhood, about four miles north of the Loop. The space, which opened in October, is a $1.7 million renovation and expansion of a former theater. The result is four stages, including an intimate 70-seat cabaret for singers, burlesque acts and comedians and two 150-seat theaters for dance and drama. Behind a glass facade in the lobby, a box office handles ticket sales, and a full-service bar encourages lingering post-curtain.
The theater wanted a space ''where people could hang out and maybe get interested in the show next door,'' said Brian Posen, the artistic director.
Respected theater companies like Artistic Home (theartistichome.org) have already moved into Stage 773, though they will clear out Jan. 5 through 15, when all four stages will be devoted to the Chicago Sketch Comedy Festival (chicagosketchfest.com), featuring 160 shows by 130 local, national and international groups.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The Second City's History of Chicago,'' a scripted show at UP Comedy Club, which opened in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BROSILOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); TICKET SALES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); MUSIC (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



35 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: The Recession Squeeze On Buses and Trains

BYLINE: By ELEANOR RANDOLPH

 BODY:
For the average American driver, the time wasted in traffic jams has more than doubled in 30 years. The best way of easing that gridlock -- not to mention saving gas, curbing pollution and finally finishing that novel -- is public transit.
Yet, as more Americans are sensibly leaving their cars at home and opting for the bus or train, mass transit is in deep financial trouble. ''We are going over the cliff,'' Elliot Sander, chairman of the Regional Plan Association, said recently. ''We will be back where we were in the 1970s and 1980s, where the older systems across the country are literally falling apart.'' 
That alarm is not an idle one. But it comes with one piece of good news: the number of trips taken annually on public transit is now more than 10 billion and rising, compared with 7.8 billion trips in 1995, outstripping population growth and the number of miles traveled on streets and highways.
Ridership, which dipped during the recession in 2009, is rising again as more baby boomer retirees take buses and high gas prices push more people to try the thriftier option. Even some cities in areas dominated by cars -- like Dallas and Salt Lake City -- have expanded their public transit systems.
The problem is, financing for mass transit has not kept pace as cash-strapped state and local governments limit their support. The federal government, which provides only about 17 percent of financing for transit systems, should be doing a lot more, particularly since nearly 60 percent of rides are related to work, with commuters from every income level.
Of the 18.4 cents per gallon federal gas tax, only 2.86 cents goes to public transit and almost all of the rest is reserved for highways. Although Congress has increased transit support in recent years, it is still too stingy to maintain stable services in many areas. The Federal Transit Administration has estimated that to bring all of the nation's networks up to good repair -- not expanding them, but mostly fixing what's already there -- would take more than $78 billion.
Meanwhile, systems are relying more on fares or state and local money. Many have had to cut back services, increase fares, raise local taxes, lay off workers, borrow to meet operating costs and put off replacing old vehicles. The chart below shows how 16 large transit agencies coped with dwindling resources.
In Chicago, the Transit Authority has seen a huge drop in local funding, largely derived from sales taxes that plunged with the recession. Transit officials borrowed more than $550 million in a four-year period starting in 2008 to pay day-to-day expenses -- a desperate and costly move. And even with fare increases, in 2010 bus service was cut 18 percent and rail service 9 percent.
In Atlanta, Beverly Scott, general manager of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, said that her agency faced ''massive, draconian, horrifying'' budget gaps in 2009. It consolidated bus routes and cut train service. That means more crowding and longer waits, even with higher fares. InBoston ridership is up, but so is debt; last year, virtually every dollar paid by riders went to debt service. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York, by far the nation's biggest, managed to balance its budget, but has also cut services and raised fares for three years.
The budget pain comes at a time when more people are finally realizing that public transit is a better deal than driving. The question is how we turn that into a broader cultural shift.
The president of the American Public Transportation Association, Michael Melaniphy, predicts that more commuters will reach a choking point and say: ''I can't sit in this car any longer and waste any more time.'' On a bus, you can text friends legally. On a train, you can keep your eyes on a Kindle. As riders leave their cars, Congress should reward all of us by financing first-rate public transportation that saves gas, tempers, time and the environment.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Strong Growth of Mass Transit (Source: American Public Transportation Association)
How Systems Are Making Do (Source: American Public Transportation Association survey of primary transit agencies in these areas: Atlanta
Chicago
Dallas
Denver
Houston
New Jersey (both N.J. Transit and PATH)
New York City
Orange County, Calif.
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Portland, Ore.
San Diego
San Francisco
Seattle
 Washington, D.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); TRAINS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); FUEL TAX (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TAX INCREASES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); SALES TAX (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



36 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: How Low Can Rates Go?

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
IF your New Year's resolutions include buying a house or refinancing, the Federal Reserve has you covered. It has committed to keep long-term interest rates low through next year, so a 30-year mortgage will be pegged about where it is now -- 4.32 percent in New York -- at least through spring, said Frank E. Nothaft, the chief economist at Freddie Mac.
''Rates are very much at the bottom,'' Mr. Nothaft said. But, he added, they may start inching up in the second half of the year. ''If you're planning to refinance, do it sooner rather than later.'' 
In order to cash in fully on some of the lowest interest rates ever recorded, buyers and owners need to start taking steps now, experts say. Rather than look for a house you really want, they suggest first finding out how much money you can afford to borrow, and what you can do in the next three to six months to improve your creditworthiness.
''Sometimes it takes a few extra months to get your ducks in a row,'' particularly if there are mistakes or blemishes on your credit report, said Gene Tricozzi, the president of Northern Funding Corporation, a mortgage brokerage in Clifton Park, N.Y. If your score is below 700, your mortgage interest rate could be a quarter to a half percentage point higher than for those with stronger scores, experts say.
Start by ordering copies of your credit reports and reviewing them for inaccuracies or disputes. Tracy Becker, the president of North Shore Advisory Inc., a credit restoration company in Tarrytown, N.Y., suggests doing this a year in advance, if possible, to give yourself ample time to fix any issues, like an inadvertently missed payment or an address error.
Do not close any credit accounts now; doing so can reduce your score by as much as 60 points, she said, adding that banks like to see two to four accounts in the applicant's name.
Once your credit score is established, identify two or three mortgage bankers or brokers whom you may want to work with. Ask friends, people in your religious or social circles, or your accountant for recommendations. Then do the due diligence on each candidate and meet with them to see who is the best fit.
Determine what your down payment and other out-of-pocket costs will be as you figure out what you can afford to buy. Use a mortgage calculator, or ask the mortgage officers to give you a range that would be comfortable.
Closing costs may be more difficult to estimate because they usually include prepaid real estate taxes and various fees for title insurance, mortgage taxes and more. Total closing costs in 2010 on a $200,000 mortgage were $3,843 in Connecticut and $6,183 in New York state, according to research by Bankrate.com in June.
Those figures exclude association fees, prepaid items and state taxes, which in New York City and a few other places can run 1.9 percent of the loan value for the mortgage recording tax.
It is a good idea to discuss your plan to buy a home with a financial planner or accountant. Your tax adviser may be able to guide you on tax deductions and decisions for your 2011 return. Some mortgages, including those offered by the Federal Housing Administration and those made to self-employed individuals, require two years of tax returns.
In those cases, taxpayers may want to be ''a little less aggressive'' with deductions so the income figure looks stronger, said Matt Hackett, the underwriting manager of Equity Now, a direct mortgage lender based in New York..
Finally, keep an eye on those interest rates. Mr. Nothaft expects the 30-year fixed mortgage rate to end the year ''well below 5 percent'' -- which could still mean a 0.75-point increase a year from now.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE REFINANCING (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); TITLE INSURANCE (60%); PROPERTY TAX (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



37 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: A Year Full of Missteps Is Finally Over

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH. 
dmcgrath@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Dan McGrath writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.
Happy New Year? For sure. Has to be. And it's not as if 2012, from a sports persepctive, has a tough act to follow. The best thing about 2011 is that it's over.
Mark Buehrle's departure for Miami is one reason to be grumpy. Buehrle, the cheerful, ultraprofessional left-hander, was one of my favorite Chicago athletes. He was almost a perfect fit with the White Sox too, but his departure reminds us that nothing is forever in sports. 
What is sad is that Buehrle's last Chicago season will be remembered as a dispiriting failure by a team that was built to win, but was instead sidetracked by petty squabbling between manager Ozzie Guillen and the front office. General manager Kenny Williams survived, and it looks as if the team he assembled will get another chance.
We will know soon enough if the former skipper was the problem. Buehrle obviously did not think so.
It would be foolish and wrong to lay all the blame for the Cubs' 2011 failings on the deposed manager, Mike Quade, but general manager Jim Hendry's belief that Quade, an earnest, well-meaning baseball lifer, was a good fit for the job probably doomed Hendry with the Ricketts family, the owners.
Only those who wanted Ryne Sandberg to manage the Cubs objected to Quade's hiring. I had misgivings the first time I heard him mention Cassie and realized Quade was referring to shortstop Starlin Castro and not the second Mrs. Joe Montana.
Big league managers don't talk like that.
Hendry is a good man, and his nine-year tenure as general manager had its moments. But in going big-time to replace him -- Theo Epstein? the Cubs? -- Tom Ricketts made an undeniably shrewd move. He restored hope. It's the currency of the sports culture in Chicago.
And it disappeared at Soldier Field about three series into Caleb Hanie's second start as Jay Cutler's replacement as the Bears quarterback.
With Cutler, the Bears had the sharp look of a playoff team. Without him -- and without Matt Forte, Johnny Knox and a couple of starting offensive linemen -- they're almost unwatchable.
Now the blame game is under way in earnest: Jerry Angelo, Mike Martz and Lovie Smith must pay for this failing, preferably in that order. In the court of talk-radio opinion, a wholesale housecleaning is mandatory, one year after the Bears played for the N.F.C. championship.
Upon further review, they probably weren't as good as they looked last season, when remarkably good health and some lucky scheduling breaks eased their way, or as bad as they've looked in the last month, as Cutler's absence underscored his stature as a franchise quarterback.
Hanie? Uh, no. The reaction is rather personal among those of us who believed he had enough talent and moxie to salvage a playoff appearance; sports scribes don't like to admit it when they're wrong. But it happens.
At the 1986 Final Four in Dallas- -- Louisville over Duke in the title game -- I remember feeling bad for Mike Krzyzewski as the jubilant Cardinals cut down the nets.
I had quietly been pulling for Krzyzewski as a fellow Chicago guy, and he had groomed this Johnny Dawkins-Mark Alarie-Jay Bilas group for big things since they were freshmen.
Now the three would be moving on, and I wondered if Krzyzewski had missed his one shot at glory, given Duke's lofty academic standards and the relentlessly competitive Atlantic Coast Conference. Four national championships, 11 Final Fours and an Olympic gold medal later, Coach K is the undisputed king of college basketball, at least. In November, as he was about to surpass Bob Knight's record for career victories, ESPN's fawning coverage would have you believe he cured cancer at halftime of the 2010 Carolina game and brokered Middle East peace during a TV timeout.
He is coaching basketball. There are high school guys who do that and also teach history, sweep out the gym and wash uniforms. And they don't make $4 million a year.
Myth-making in sports is as old as the games themselves, but the practice seemed to reach new heights (or depths) in 2011, with alarming consequences. It is fair to ask if some of what Jerry Sandusky is supposed to have done could have been prevented if preserving the Legend of Joe Pa hadn't been such an unquestioned imperative at Penn State.
Derrick Rose is 62 years younger than Joe Paterno, but his canonization process has begun. Rose, the Bulls' fourth-year point guard is a great basketball player and a great story, a product of Chicago's downtrodden Englewood neighborhood, imbued with the will and the drive to escape the mean streets that have claimed too many other promising young men.
He is also a decent, grounded guy whose humility and gratitude came through at a recent news conference announcing a five-year, $94 million contract extension that should provide nicely for generations of Roses.
But that's not enough. We want Rose to transform Englewood, eradicate poverty, unemployment and gangs, turn it into a model community of Derrick Rose-caliber citizens.
That's a lot to ask of a 23-year-old who spent one year in college.
Rose is a kid, a kid who happens to be an amazing basketball player, to the delight of his hometown. A good kid, too. Let's say that's enough for 2012. He'll get the rest of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bears quarterback Caleb Hanie could not salvage the team's season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL (77%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (82%); CHICAGO BEARS (59%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



38 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage Victory Still Shadowed by AIDS

BYLINE: By AUSTIN CONSIDINE

 BODY:
ON the evening of June 24, Steve Mendelsohn celebrated in the street with his friends and nearly a thousand other supporters of same-sex marriage outside the Stonewall Inn, the storied gay bar in the West Village.
The setting was nothing if not appropriate: In 1969, a riot at the Stonewall would make the bar forever synonymous with the awakening of the modern gay rights movement in America. That night, nearly a half-century later, a bill passed that would allow gay men and women to legally marry for the first time in New York State.
For Mr. Mendelsohn, 54, the moment represented an unequivocal victory: an apex to decades of struggle for equal recognition under state law. Still, the moment was tinged with a sense of absence, as it was for many gay men his age. Amid the jubilation, he couldn't help but think of Phil Kanner, his partner of 15 years, who died of complications from AIDS in 1995.
''I was thinking, 'I wish Phil were here with me,' '' Mr. Mendelsohn said in an interview in the fall, adding later, ''If my partner were alive, I believe we would have married.'' 
For many middle-aged gay men in New York City, the passage of the same-sex marriage law was in part a fresh reminder of the darkest days of the AIDS epidemic, when men like Mr. Mendelsohn, the director of a nonprofit media group, lost innumerable friends and loved ones to a disease that was often as stigmatizing as it was deadly.
At the height of the epidemic, the disease took tens of thousands of lives in the United States each year; it reached its deadly peak in 1995, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with the number of deaths of those with AIDS reaching more than 50,000 that year.
Those who survived haven't stopped living, forming new relationships and organizing for equality in the decades since. But the memory of what was lost lingers -- a shadow cast by marriage equality's glow.
''New losses can trigger old feelings of grief, but so can successes, so something like having gay marriage can trigger feelings of loss,'' said James Masten, a Manhattan psychotherapist and author who has worked with patients with H.I.V. and AIDS for the last 20 years.
''Even though it's a positive experience, it can still remind us of all the people who aren't here, who haven't had the opportunity to see this -- all the activists who never lived to this point,'' he added.
Jeffrey Sharlach, 58, founder of a Manhattan-based communications firm and an adjunct associate professor of management communication at New York University, said he lost nearly every one of his gay friends in New York during the 1980s and '90s, including his partner of more than 12 years, Ken Williams, who died in 1994 at age 33. Mr. Sharlach is publishing a novel in May about that period in his life called ''Running in Bed,'' which he described as about a quarter autobiographical.
For Mr. Sharlach, New York at the height of the AIDS epidemic became an empty shell, its streets a constant reminder of loved ones who were disappearing. ''Every single block would be like, 'Oh, I remember this guy used to live here.' ''
''It was like a city of ghosts,'' he added.
With the passing of time, many of those who survived the 1980s and '90s have gone on to form meaningful long-term relationships. Some, like Mr. Mendelsohn, took advantage of the same-sex marriage law fairly quickly. In September, he married Wallie Pagunsan, exactly two years after the day they met.
Others, like Mr. Sharlach, believe that the moment for marrying may have passed. Though he, too, has a long-term partner, his second since Mr. Williams died, he has little interest in marrying.
''I think the relationships that you have when you're older are different than the relationships you have when you're in your 20s,'' he said. ''In your 20s you have this idea that you're going to grow together, build a life together and kind of grow up together.''
His current relationship, Mr. Sharlach added, is ''much more mature.''
The generational marriage gap felt by Mr. Sharlach, and echoed by others, isn't only about age. It's also a function of history and denied opportunity. While some middle-aged gay men and lesbians leaped at the chance to marry after having been denied the right, others say the concept feels too foreign today because it was such a remote possibility for so long.
''The idea of gay marriage -- I mean nobody ever talked about it, it was nowhere on anyone's radar screen,'' Mr. Sharlach said. During the 1980s and '90s, he said, ''we were just worried about people not being fired from their jobs, people not getting kicked out of their apartments. That was the big thing. Really, basic rights were much more important.''
David Norris lost his partner of 10 years, Jeffery Reddick, in 1992, also from AIDS complications. Like Mr. Sharlach, he focused for years on other issues that, at the height of the AIDS epidemic, seemed more urgent.
''It also just seemed like such a pie-in-the-sky thing,'' he said of same-sex marriage. ''It was just like: 'That will so never happen. Why put energy into it?' ''
Today, Mr. Norris, 57, has a partner of 18 years who lives with him in the Upper West Side apartment he once shared with Mr. Reddick. The two own a house together in Asbury Park, N.J., and were joined there in a civil union to make property ownership more economical and practical.
But it would feel wrong to have a marriage recognized in one home state, but not another, he said. Mr. Norris, a vice president for an insurance group, has long been active in gay equality groups like the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network, Lambda Legal and the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation. He hopes to engage more fully in his advocacy role once he retires.
Mr. Norris is thrilled about the New York marriage law, he said, especially for younger people who, largely because of his generation's efforts, will never know the same kinds of discrimination. But he is reluctant to marry because he believes the law doesn't go far enough. ''We probably will get married, but I still go back and forth on it,'' he said regarding his current partner. ''I want the whole enchilada.''
If the federal Defense of Marriage Act were repealed, he would feel more certain, Mr. Norris added. ''Then we'd be booking the banquet hall. It would be a real celebration.''
The men interviewed for this article may form an imbalanced picture of their generation because each has gone on to form long-term, meaningful romantic relationships -- despite the loss of partners, and regardless of feelings about marrying. But, as therapists attest, there are silent others who remain haunted by the tragedies of the AIDS scourge, and unhealed by the passing years.
''Of course, there's a sense of positivity around gay marriage, but many gay men of my generation, I would describe us, actually, as a lost generation,'' said Darrell Greene, a Manhattan psychologist who spent the worst years of the epidemic working for AIDS-related health organizations, first as part of the AIDS Task Force of Greater Cleveland, then at the Gay Men's Health Crisis and the AIDS unit at Goldwater Memorial Hospital, in New York. It was, he said, ''like living through a war.''
''There are many people who are survivors and who have tremendous resilience, of course,'' Dr. Greene said. ''But in terms of my population, there are many people who were profoundly traumatized by the epidemic. And they are still processing what happened to them.''
Mr. Mendelsohn, who welcomed the news of the gay marriage act outside the Stonewall, has learned above all to place his loss within a larger context -- in a way that, though tragically ironic, gives added positive meaning to the otherwise devastating experience.
''I believe that there wouldn't be any gay marriage today if it weren't for AIDS,'' Mr. Mendelsohn said. ''There was so much intolerance and misunderstanding about who was gay and who wasn't until everyone found out that people were gay because they were dying. And it was their friends, their family, their relatives.''
Support groups for gay men grieving the deaths of their partners helped Mr. Mendelsohn, like many of the men interviewed, cope with his loss, especially in the years just after his partner died. As time passed, his grieving evolved, his nightmares stopped.
''Somewhere, the memories were less and less about the hard times and the illness, and more and more about the happy times,'' he said. ''It was less traumatic. I came to see him more as my angel looking over me and helping me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIME TO GRIEVE: Steve Mendelsohn lost a partner to AIDS. ''If my partner were alive, I believe we would have married.'' (ST1)
 BITTERSWEET GAIN: Jeffrey Sharlach, above, said New York was a ''city of ghosts'' at the epidemic's height. David Norris, who has a new partner, believes the state law doesn't go far enough. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); AIDS & HIV (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EPIDEMICS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



39 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Apropos Appropriation

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
ONE recent afternoon in the offices of the Midtown law firm run by David Boies and his powerful litigation partners, a large black clamshell box sat on a conference table. Inside were raucous, sometimes wildly funny collages of photographs and magazine pages handmade by the artist Richard Prince, works of art that have become the ur-texts of one of the most closely watched copyright cases ever to rattle the world of fine art.
In March a federal district court judge in Manhattan ruled that Mr. Prince -- whose career was built on appropriating imagery created by others -- broke the law by taking photographs from a book about Rastafarians and using them without permission to create the collages and a series of paintings based on them, which quickly sold for serious money even by today's gilded art-world standards: almost $2.5 million for one of the works. (''Wow -- yeah,'' Mr. Prince said when a lawyer asked him under oath in the district court case if that figure was correct.) 
The decision, by Judge Deborah A. Batts, set off alarm bells throughout Chelsea and in museums across America that show contemporary art. At the heart of the case, which Mr. Prince is now appealing, is the principle called fair use, a kind of door in the bulwark of copyright protections. It gives artists (or anyone for that matter) the ability to use someone else's material for certain purposes, especially if the result transforms the thing used -- or as Judge Pierre N. Leval described it in an influential 1990 law review article, if the new thing ''adds value to the original'' so that society as a whole is culturally enriched by it. In the most famous test of the principle, the Supreme Court in 1994 found a possibility of fair use by the group 2 Live Crew in its sampling of parts of Roy Orbison's ''Oh Pretty Woman'' for the sake of one form of added value, parody.
In the Prince case the notoriously slippery standard for transformation was defined so narrowly that artists and museums warned it would leave the fair-use door barely open, threatening the robust tradition of appropriation that goes back at least to Picasso and underpins much of the art of the last half-century. Several museums, including the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan, rallied to the cause, filing papers supporting Mr. Prince and calling the decision a blow to ''the strong public interest in the free flow of creative expression.'' Scholars and lawyers on the other side of the debate hailed it instead as a welcome corrective in an art world too long in thrall to the Pictures Generation -- artists like Mr. Prince who used appropriation beginning in the 1970s to burrow beneath the surface of media culture.
But if the case has had any effect so far, it has been to drag into the public arena a fundamental truth hovering somewhere just outside the legal debate: that today's flow of creative expression, riding a tide of billions of instantly accessible digital images and clips, is rapidly becoming so free and recycling so reflexive that it is hard to imagine it being slowed, much less stanched, whatever happens in court. It is a phenomenon that makes Mr. Prince's artful thefts -- those collages in the law firm's office -- look almost Victorian by comparison, and makes the copyright battle and its attendant fears feel as if they are playing out in another era as well, perhaps not Victorian but certainly pre-Internet.
In many ways the art world is a latecomer to the kinds of copyright tensions that have already played out in fields like music and movies, where extensive systems of policing, permission and licensing have evolved. But art lawyers say that legal challenges are now coming at a faster pace, perhaps in part because the art market has become a much bigger business and because of the extent of the borrowing ethos.
Dip almost anywhere into contemporary art over the last couple of years to see the extent. The group show ''Free'' at the New Museum in 2010 was built partly around the very idea of the borrowing culture, the way the Web is radically reordering the concept of appropriation, with works that ''lift, borrow and reframe digital images -- not in a rebellious act of stealing or a deconstructive act of critique -- but as a way to participate thoughtfully and actively in a culture that is highly circulated, hybridized, internationalized,'' as its curator, Lauren Cornell, wrote.
Christian Marclay's wildly popular video ''The Clock'' from 2010 was 24 hours of appropriation, made from thousands of stitched-together fragments from films and television shows. Rob Pruitt's show ''Pattern and Degradation'' at the Gavin Brown and Maccarone galleries in 2010 lifted designs from Lilly Pulitzer, from Web photo memes and from a couple of T-shirt designers, whose angry supporters staged a flash-mob demonstration to protest the use of the design without attribution.
Mr. Marclay and Mr. Pruitt were both born before the 1980s. But to look at the work of younger artists, especially of those who don't remember a time before the Web, is to get a true sense of the velocity, and changing nature, of appropriation.
''For the generation that I spend my days with, there's not even any ideological baggage that comes along with appropriation anymore,'' said Stephen Frailey, an artist whose work has used appropriation and who runs the undergraduate photography program at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan. ''They feel that once an image goes into a shared digital space, it's just there for them to change, to elaborate on, to add to, to improve, to do whatever they want with it. They don't see this as a subversive act. They see the Internet as a collaborative community and everything on it as raw material.''
At the same time the tools for mining and remolding those mountains of raw material are proliferating. In November a developer and a designer introduced an iPad art app called Mixel, aimed at amateurs but certain to end up in artists' studios. It allows users to grab images from the Web or elsewhere, collage them almost effortlessly and then pass them around, social media style, for appreciation or re-mixing.
One of its creators, Khoi Vinh, a former design director of NYTimes.com, has been surprisingly frank when asked about the tsunami of copyright problems such an idea stirs up. ''This is really a case of, you have to do it, try it and ask for forgiveness later,'' he said to an interviewer. ''Otherwise it would never get out there.''
In a homage-to-old-''Sesame Street'' video that was made to promote the app, the friendly narrator urges, ''Pick anything that inspires you.'' And, in a sense, that simple exhortation goes to the heart of the issues raised by the Prince case and Web-driven reuse culture in general.
American copyright law has always performed a complicated balancing act involving both commerce and culture. It tries to protect products of creativity so that people have economic incentive to keep on creating, so that a new movie, for example, is not immediately copied and resold on Canal Street, depriving the moviemaker of the possibility of income. But the law has also evolved ways to allow for creative uses of copying: the fair use exemption, which allows some copying for things like criticism, comment or news reporting.
Over the last couple of decades part of the equation for deciding whether fair use is indeed fair is how much the thing copied has been transformed. In other words, even if we are long past making anything completely new under the sun, as Ecclesiastes declared a couple of millenniums ago, copying should be allowed only to the degree to which it adds to or builds on what came before.
Deciding what is sufficiently transformative and what is not has often been tough enough in other cultural realms, like music and literature. But as copyright tensions mount and the courts increasingly confront the issue in contemporary art, the question becomes ever trickier. In large part this is because the questions turns on artistic intent, often a much grayer area in the visual arts than in other arts, and especially so over the last three decades as art movements have fragmented.
What were Mr. Prince's intentions in re-using the Rastafarian pictures taken by the French photographer Patrick Cariou and why did he choose them? For the sake of parody? For criticism? Or did he just pick something that inspired him, for reasons as difficult to plumb as any those of many postmodern artists?
In a deposition in the case that was recently published as part of an unlikely art book by the writer and director Greg Allen, lawyers for Mr. Cariou follow Mr. Prince deep into the strange and often trackless territory of artistic intention. About as close as they get to pinning him down is that he wanted to use the borrowed pictures to explore his fascination with the painting of Willem de Kooning and also thought of his collages and paintings as part of an idea for a movie about a post-apocalyptic world in which Rastafarians, famous literary lesbians and others commandeer hotels on St. Bart's.
''So what are four lesbians from the early 20th century doing on St. Bart's in, now, when there's a nuclear war, like why are they there?'' a lawyer asked Mr. Prince, who responded: ''Your guess is as good as mine. That's what I do, I make things up.''
At another point in the transcript of the deposition, a lawyer asked, ''What is the message?''
Mr. Prince replied, ''The message is to make great art that makes people feel good.''
He also made it clear that he was not making art that commented on Mr. Cariou's work itself. (Judge Batts ruled that for a work to be transformative it must ''in some way comment on, relate to the historical context of, or critically refer back to the original works'' it borrows from, a test she said Mr. Prince's work failed.)
In an interview Daniel Brooks, Mr. Cariou's lawyer, said that if such a subjective principle for borrowing as Mr. Prince's were to become the legal standard -- and in parts of the art world it is already much more subjective in practice -- there would be no way to protect copyright.
''It can't just be random, that he 'liked it,' because there's no practical boundary to that,'' he said.
But Joshua Schiller, Mr. Prince's appeals lawyer from the firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner, said the boundary is whether a new work of art results from the borrowing. And he argued that it was clear that Mr. Prince had made parts of Mr. Cariou's pictures into distinctive Richard Prince works, not just copy them to pass them off as his own and deprive Mr. Cariou of his livelihood. Whether the work was successful and whether Mr. Prince's intentions were interesting or even explainable can be left to debate. But the primary intention was to create a work of art, Mr. Schiller said, and that is the kind of creativity the law seeks to encourage.
''This is not piracy,'' he said. ''These are not handbags.''
Mr. Prince's appeal will probably be heard in the next few months. But the decision will not answer the larger questions about how copyright should evolve to deal with the reality of artists in a digital world or how the art world should deal with such questions morally and ethically. The possibility has often been raised of establishing an extensive system of licensing and permissions for images and other artistic material, akin to the one that operates in the music industry, but even many advocates of stricter copyright standards do not seem optimistic that such a system could work in the art world.
At a debate about the Prince case at the New York City Bar Association last month Virginia Rutledge, an art lawyer and former general counsel for Creative Commons, a nonprofit group that advocates for more open copyright standards, said she believed that the problem facing the art world was as much a ''cultural attribution crisis'' as a legal crisis and that the problem could be at least partly addressed by cultivating a stronger climate of simple acknowledgement and credit.
But Hank Willis Thomas, one of the artists taking part in the debate, said that the recycle and remix culture was gaining speed so rapidly that trying to bring order to it was, even now, like trying to hit a moving target.
''Whatever's after this,'' he added, ''is going to be pretty crazy.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A cover article this weekend about the legality of visual artists' appropriating the images of others misstates the action the Supreme Court took in a 1994 case regarding the group 2 Live Crew's sampling of a Roy Orbison song. The court referred the case back to a lower court and, in the process, clarified the legal standard to be applied; the court did not find fair use in the case.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Theft or fair use? A collection of pieces by artists who appropriate images created by others. A key to the works above is on Page 8. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY 1. Cory Arcangel, ''Japanese Driving Game,'' 2004 (Team Gallery). 2. Hank Willis Thomas, ''Branded Head,'' 2003-5 (Studio Museum). 3. Christian Marclay, ''The Clock,'' 2011 (Benjamin Norman for The New York Times). 4. Roe Ethridge, ''Old Fruit,'' 2010 (Andrew Kreps Gallery). 5. Richard Prince, ''Dude Ranch Nurse,'' 2002-3 (Andy Rain/European Pressphoto Agency). 6. Hank Willis Thomas with Ryan Alexiev, ''Afro-American Express,'' 2004 (courtesy of the artist). 7. Richard Prince, ''Untitled (fashion),'' 1982-84 (Serpentine Gallery, London). 8. Sherrie Levine, ''La Fortune (After Man Ray): 4,'' 1990 (Geoffrey Clements/Whitney Museum of American Art). 9. Christian Marclay, ''Graffiti Composition,'' 1996-2002 (Paula Cooper Gallery). 10. Rob Pruitt exhibition, 2010 (Stephanie Colgan for The New York Times). 11. Richard Prince, ''Nurse in Hollywood #4,'' 2004 (Phillips de Pury & Company). 12. Cory Arcangel, ''Nipod v.2,'' 2004 (Team Gallery). 13. Sherrie Levine, ''Untitled (After Walker Evans): 2,'' 1981 (Paula Cooper Gallery). 14. Cory Arcangel, ''Beat the Champ,'' 2011 (Librado Romero/The New York Times). 15. Rob Pruitt, ''Exquisite Self-Portrait: The Surrealist,'' 2010 (Gavin Brown's Enterprise)) (AR1)
The artist Richard Prince's incorporation of images from a 2000 book in his ''Canal Zone'' series is at dispute in a copyright case. Top, ''Inquisition,'' a 2008 collage from the series
above, one of photographs in the book, ''Yes Rasta,'' by Patrick Cariou. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GAGOSIAN GALLERY
 PATRICK CARIOU/POWERHOUSE BOOKS) (AR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PAINTING (77%); COPYRIGHT (76%); JUDGES (75%); APPEALS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (70%)

PERSON: PIERRE N LEVAL (79%); LARRY GAGOSIAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



40 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: If 2011 Was Any Indication, Hold On to Your Hats in 2012

BYLINE: By THE TEXAS TRIBUNE

 BODY:
Texans will close out 2011 with more questions than answers: How will Gov. Rick Perry's presidential bid play out? How will lawmakers' multibillion-dollar budget cuts affect education, Medicaid and health care? Will the courts ever decide on new State House, Senate and Congressional districts so Texas can hold elections?
Here's hoping the next year brings some resolution. Texas Tribune reporters take a look at what to expect in 2012 -- from the continuing Texas drought and debates over transparency in higher education to allegations of prosecutorial misconduct and a high-profile presidential election across Texas' southern border.
RICK PERRY 
Gov. Rick Perry was riding high when he stepped off his first presidential campaign bus, the one with the phrase ''Get America working again'' plastered on its side. It was mid-August, during that first hopeful week of his run for the White House. The sky was the limit back then. Even some liberal critics were predicting that he would waltz to the Republican presidential nomination.
Oops. It did not work out that way.
Now a new year beckons, and plenty of uncertainty looms for Mr. Perry.
Will he pull off one of the biggest comebacks in American political history? Or will reporters be using words like ''flameout'' and ''flop'' to sum up the presidential fortunes of Mr. Perry, the longest-serving governor in Texas history?
If he does come back, will people around the Texas Capitol fear him less? What kind of governor does a defeated presidential candidate make?
He may never make it to the White House. But he remains the governor of Texas, and that is still a pretty big deal. JAY ROOT
DROUGHT
From farmers to power plant operators to homeowners, everyone in Texas is wondering when the grueling 15-month drought will end. The answer, alas, is that nobody knows.
Recent rain and snow have pushed state precipitation totals above the average for December, but this appears to be ''a short-term aberration in an overall long-term dry pattern,'' Victor Murphy, a southern regional official with the National Weather Service, said in an e-mail.
La Nina, the Pacific Ocean phenomenon blamed for the drought, has returned for a second consecutive winter and is currently showing weak to moderate strength, Mr. Murphy said. So federal forecasters are projecting below-normal rainfall through May. After that, it is anybody's guess, and Texans must hope that La Nina does not return for a third year.
The good news: As of Dec. 27, only 32 percent of the state is still in the worst drought stage, down from 88 percent in early October.
The bad: Just 0.01 percent of the state is not in any drought at all, in Northeast Texas near the Oklahoma border. KATE GALBRAITH
HEALTH
The new year will determine how Texas proceeds with two contentious public health matters: family planning and the state's huge uninsured population.
The Obama administration has rejected Republican state lawmakers' efforts to block Planned Parenthood from participating in the Medicaid Women's Health Program, but has extended the program into March so the state can reconsider its options. Will the state simply end the program, which does not finance or perform abortions? Will the federal government back down? It's a game of who will blink first, with cancer screenings and birth control for some 130,000 low-income Texas women hanging in the balance.
How the United States Supreme Court rules on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act -- the constitutionality of which Texas and 25 other states have challenged -- will largely determine how the state tackles its more than six million uninsured residents. But whether Texas likes it or not, the path for reform may already be set, thanks to a five-year waiver the Obama administration just authorized for the state.
Now, starting in 2012, Texas will be able to move nearly a million more Medicaid patients into managed care without threatening billions of dollars in federal matching funds. In return, Texas will have to meet a bevy of federal requirements, including a demand that hospitals promote patient outcomes and partner with primary care providers in the community. EMILY RAMSHAW
HIGHER EDUCATION
A year of upheaval in higher education raised many questions about the future of colleges and universities in Texas. Should professors at research universities readjust their priorities? Do current financing models create the wrong incentives for administrators? What is the role of regents?
The coming year will be a quest for answers.
Last spring, at the height of an intensely political debate over the productivity of Texas universities, the State Legislature established a new joint oversight committee on higher education. Three hearings have been held so far, and more are being planned for the months ahead.
Given the time and resources devoted to these high-profile discussions, expectations are high. Top-ranking university officials from around the state are asked to attend, even if they are not testifying.
The conclusions drawn by the committee, and any subsequent recommendations, will set the tone for higher education heading into the 2013 legislative session.
Do not expect the business community to sit by idly. After failing in 2011 to persuade legislators to switch the current university financing model, based entirely on the number of students enrolled, to one with more emphasis on the number of students who graduate, business leaders have already begun mounting their campaign to make it happen in 2013. REEVE HAMILTON
IMMIGRATION
Relations along the Texas-Mexico border depend on the outcome of two elections, one at home and one abroad.
Some posit that if President Obama is re-elected, he may finally act on his 2008 campaign promise to fix the country's immigration system. He has called for this for years, but has simultaneously deported more illegal immigrants than any other president. Between Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.'s recent visit to Texas and the United States Justice Department's crackdown on enforcement of Arizona's controversial immigration law -- which Texas lawmakers continue to toy with -- his administration appears to be working to counteract this reputation.
If a Republican wins the White House, will that president embrace more extreme measures on the border, including a more extensive fence, an infusion of American troops or intervention by the United States in the sovereign nation of Mexico?
Meanwhile, officials on both sides of the border think Mexico's fight against organized drug crime could hinge on that country's presidential election. President Felipe Calderon, of the PAN party, cannot run again in next summer's election, and his party has yet to determine who will vie for the seat.
The PRI, the opposition party that held power for 70 years, will most likely field the former governor of the state of Mexico, Enrique Pena Nieto, who has said he does not believe the military is the best tool to fight organized crime -- there have been more than 42,000 murders nationwide in drug-related violence since late 2006.
The leftist PRD could run Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who lost to Mr. Calderon in 2006 in the country's closest presidential election in history. JULIAN AGUILAR
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
In the wake of its latest high-profile exoneration, the Texas criminal justice community is grappling with the issue of prosecutorial misconduct.
Murder charges against Michael Morton have been officially dismissed, and he is now out of prison after 25 years, but the ramifications of his case have just begun. His lawyers have asked a Texas court to launch an unprecedented inquiry into whether Ken Anderson, the prosecutor who secured Mr. Morton's conviction, ought to face criminal charges and professional discipline.
They allege that Mr. Anderson, who is now a state district judge, deliberately withheld evidence that could have resulted in Mr. Morton's acquittal in 1987. Instead, Mr. Morton was wrongfully convicted of his wife's murder and imprisoned until DNA results proved his innocence last summer.
Sid Harle, a Bexar County state district judge, has not decided whether to grant the hearing, and Mr. Anderson argues vigorously that he did nothing wrong during the Morton trial.
In addition to the courtroom action, the Innocence Project has asked lawmakers to conduct hearings to investigate whether Texas can adopt new laws to stiffen penalties for prosecutorial misconduct. State Senator Rodney Ellis, Democrat of Houston and chairman of the Innocence Project, said he is already working on recommendations for legislation that would help prevent wrongful convictions. BRANDI GRISSOM
POVERTY
The ''Texas Miracle,'' which Gov. Rick Perry has credited with creating nearly half of the jobs in the national work force since mid-2009, may have dominated headlines in 2011, but heading into 2012 the state's job growth should look far more routine. Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Federal Reserve, said Texas job growth was likely to remain at about 1.5 percent to 2 percent.
While the state gained 289,900 private-sector jobs in the last year, Texas' news is not all good. The state's unemployment rate hovered above 8 percent in 2011, while the rest of the nation improved, and the national unemployment rate dropped to 8.6 percent by November. According to the latest statistics from the Texas Workforce Commission, the state lost 63,900 public-sector jobs, largely as a result of lawmakers' budget cuts, and mostly in public education. Texas is only a few months into those cuts.
Poverty and food insecurity remain a problem. Four million Texans live below the federal poverty line, according to the United States Census. Medicaid enrollment is on the rise, too; more than 3.3 million Texans, including 2.5 million children, are enrolled. BECCA AARONSON
PUBLIC EDUCATION
The consequences of lawmakers' roughly $5.4 billion reduction in state financing to public education in 2011 will dominate 2012. The budget slashing has already galvanized more than half of the school districts in Texas into four different lawsuits against the state, which will wind up in court next fall.
In March, official numbers of how many and what types of employees were laid off by school districts will be released, just before the primaries -- the first real indicator of the budget cuts' political ramifications. Also in the spring, the state's approximately 350,000 ninth graders will be the first to take the end-of-course exams that are part of Texas' new standardized testing system.
Whether districts will be adequately prepared to meet the rigorous new standards -- and whether that will affect graduation and dropout rates -- could become a major driver of education policy in the 2013 legislative session. MORGAN SMITH
STATE POLITICS
This most uncertain political year starts with something we know: Nearly one in five members of the Texas House will not be coming back. Whether they are running for higher office (about half) or because they have had quite enough for now (the rest), almost 30 members of the 150-member House will not seek re-election. Couple that with the high number of freshmen elected in 2010, and you can bet that the next legislative session will have an abundance of inexperience.
What amounts to huge turnover in the State Senate is small by any other standard, with four of the 31 members saying they will not be back. The rest -- and perhaps the new replacements -- might see the most political fallout after the November elections. If Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst is elected to the United States Senate, the senators will elect his replacement from their own ranks in a process that is like a professional version of a race for student body president. Every candidate knows every voter, and everyone will know how everyone else voted.
In the uncertainty department, there is the primary election date. Will it be April 3, or will the federal courts take so long approving maps that the elections have to be pushed back again? Will Gov. Rick Perry snatch victory from defeat, forcing that same State Senate to choose someone for the governor's office? Or will he come home, vanquished, to his current job?
And what if Mr. Dewhurst doesn't win his race? The promotions of any number of Texas politicians are built around an organization chart where one or both of those boxes is empty after November 2012. ROSS RAMSEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Governor Perry at one of his campaign events in Iowa on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Dr. Spencer R. Berthelsen with a patient and colleague, Dr. Francisco Garcia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A25A)
Michael Morton wrongly spent 25 years in prison.
 The level of Lake J. B. Thomas was at 4.6 percent in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT W. HART FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A25B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WEATHER (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EL NINO & LA NINA (89%); DROUGHT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); LIBERALISM (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); MISCONDUCT (56%); LEGAL ETHICS (55%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (99%); PACIFIC OCEAN (52%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



41 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Iowa's Harvest

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
Coralville, Iowa
AS the hour of actual caucusing drew closer, Ron Paul's campaign trumpeted his endorsement by a pastor who, as it happens, has spoken of executing homosexuals. Rick Perry pledged to devote predator drones and thousands of troops to the protection of the Mexican border, making the mission to keep every last illegal immigrant from crossing sound as urgent as rooting out terrorists in Pakistan.
And Rick Santorum, bringing his ''Faith, Family and Freedom'' tour to this eastern Iowa town on Thursday, promised never to be cowed by all those craven secularists who believe that a stable, healthy household needn't be headed by a God-fearing mom and dad.
None of these three men is likely to win the Republican nomination. But before they exit stage right -- stage far right, that is -- they and a few of their similarly quixotic, similarly strident competitors will do no small measure of damage to the Republican Party and no great favors to the country as a whole. What happens in Iowa doesn't stay in Iowa: it befouls Republicans' image nationally, becomes a millstone around the eventual nominee's neck and legitimizes debate about some matters that shouldn't be debatable. 
The run-up to the Iowa caucuses, like the rest of the primary season thus far, has underscored just how much general nuttiness and moral extremism the party has come to accommodate, with Iowa serving as a theater of the conservative absurd. The state's unrepresentative caucuses -- in which a mere 100,000 or so of the most fervent voters, almost all of them white, are expected to participate -- coax a Bible-thumping, border-militarizing harshness from candidates that's a tonal turnoff to the swing voters who will probably decide the general election.
The more reasoned, practical members of the Republican establishment know this. That's why many of them are doing all they can to expedite the coronation of Mitt Romney, whose mild manner and time as the governor of a heavily Democratic state give him a centrist aura, or at least the possibility of one. They'd like to get his loopier and more incendiary rivals away from the television cameras, soon.
Many Democrats take heart from the spectacle of ultra-conservative pandering in Iowa, correctly surmising that it bolsters their own party's fortunes and President Obama's re-election chances. They shouldn't, not if they care about the country, best served by a vigorous back-and-forth about the proper size and role of government and about budgetary restraint. In its least hypocritical moments, the Republican Party has provided an important counterbalance to a Democratic tropism toward paternalism and bloat. It can't do that if it marginalizes itself by repelling fiscally conservative but socially moderate voters who have little appetite for the shenanigans in Iowa.
Last week, Paul remained at or near the top of polls of the state's Republicans, despite his refusal to disavow support from white supremacist and anti-Zionist groups and -- on an infinitely lighter note -- a campaign style that just won't cut it.
I caught up with him in Newton, where his staff distributed glossy pamphlets, ''The Ron Paul Family Cookbook,'' with recipes for ''cherry-pineapple dump cake,'' ''impossible pie,'' ''razzle bo-dazzle pork tenderloin'' and more. His remarks were less sculptured stump speech than meandering civics seminar, with none of the customary oratorical swells and dips.
An advocate of abolishing the Federal Reserve, he got questions unlike those other candidates receive, including one about monetary policy that concluded, ''My thought is: maybe the silver standard?'' He responded by earnestly weighing silver against gold, the pol as metallurgist.
He terrifies more pragmatic conservatives like the commentator Michael Medved, who has called him ''Dr. Demento.'' Medved wrote in The Daily Beast last week that a strong showing by Paul in the caucuses and beyond would be ''disastrous to Republican prospects,'' validating the impression that ''today's Republicans have become a wild and crazy bunch, harboring oddball, irresponsible notions that place them far outside the American mainstream and make them untrustworthy when it comes to the serious business of governance.'' He added, rightly, that Paul's associations aren't helpful to a party whose future may depend on its appeal to Hispanic and black voters.
That future was lost on Perry, too. I caught up with him on Wednesday in Pella, where he was introduced by Joe Arpaio, the polarizing Arizona sheriff who once marched 200 immigrants awaiting deportation through the streets and is widely loathed by Hispanics. Perry spoke of Arpaio's support as a compliment higher than any imaginable. And when one of the Iowans who got to ask Perry a question commenced a vicious tirade against ''these Mexicans'' who come to America and ''fly their flag above the United States flag,'' Perry didn't push back one iota.
IN response to weak poll numbers, he also doubled down on God. Early in the week he toughened his already tough stance on abortion, saying he was now opposed to it even in instances of rape and incest. In Pella and elsewhere he crowed about how many Planned Parenthood clinics in Texas he had shut down. He quoted the Bible, telling voters they must, like the prophet Isaiah, offer their service to the Lord -- by voting for Perry.
The symbolism in one of his television ads included stained glass, a church steeple, a cross: religious imagery that was par for the pious course in Iowa. As the political strategist Mark McKinnon told the Times's Jeremy W. Peters, vote-desperate, subtlety-bereft candidates ''will light a fire and stand by a burning bush in order to send a signal to evangelicals, 'I'm one of you.' ''
A prior ad of Perry's questioned the end of the United States military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' prohibition concerning gays. They remain favorite punching bags for conservative Republicans, and that's another way in which the party jeopardizes its future. Surveys make clear that younger Americans are much more supportive of gay rights than older ones. You wouldn't know it from the likes of Perry and Santorum.
Santorum at long last experienced a surge of his very own -- you have to wonder if Tim Pawlenty has developed hematomas from kicking himself for quitting the race -- and reveled in it. And he talked not only about the economy but also about abstinence, Christianity, morality, decency.
A remark he made in Coralville had a xenophobic, even racist edge. Digressing to recall that Hillary Clinton had written a book titled, ''It Takes a Village,'' he pointed out, gratuitously, ''That's an African proverb.''
He then plugged his own book, ''It Takes a Family.''
It takes a perspective less morally smug and divisive to lead this country. And for all of Romney's own pandering and cringe-inducing policy gyrations, he gets this, I think.
It's possible he'll prevail in Tuesday's caucuses and indeed be speeded toward the general election. But the rightward bobs he has felt compelled to make and the ugly carnival here will cling to him and his party. More than any vote tally, that will be Iowa's harvest, a bitter one.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORISM (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%); RON PAUL (73%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (92%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



42 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; POVERTY; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Expected to Be Routine

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON

 BODY:
The ''Texas Miracle,'' which Gov. Rick Perry has credited with creating nearly half of the jobs in the national work force since mid-2009, may have dominated headlines in 2011, but heading into 2012 the state's job growth should look far more routine. Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas Federal Reserve, said Texas job growth was likely to remain at about 1.5 percent to 2 percent. 
While the state gained 289,900 private-sector jobs in the last year, Texas' news is not all good. The state's unemployment rate hovered above 8 percent in 2011, while the rest of the nation improved, and the national unemployment rate dropped to 8.6 percent by November. According to the latest statistics from the Texas Workforce Commission, the state lost 63,900 public-sector jobs, largely as a result of lawmakers' budget cuts, and mostly in public education. Texas is only a few months into those cuts.
Poverty and food insecurity remain a problem. Four million Texans live below the federal poverty line, according to the United States Census. Medicaid enrollment is on the rise, too; more than 3.3 million Texans, including 2.5 million children, are enrolled. BECCA AARONSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); MEDICAID (72%); STATISTICS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); FOOD SECURITY (66%); CHILDREN (66%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



43 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Even A Giant Can Learn To Run

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
BECAUSE it has become so consistently successful, I.B.M. is almost boring. This is a company so predictable that its financial forecast is packaged as a ''five-year road map,'' as if it were some sort of state planning exercise.
Yet behind I.B.M.'s relentless progress over the last decade is a game plan that has been anything but conservative. The company shed multibillion-dollar businesses. It chose higher profit margins over corporate size, and expanded aggressively overseas, seeking sales, low-cost engineering talent and quicker organizational reflexes.
Investors, however, haven't been bored. The company's stock price has surged. In November, Warren E. Buffett, who typically shuns technology stocks, announced he had accumulated $10 billion of I.B.M. shares, a stake of more than 5 percent.
All of that didn't just happen. A large portion of the credit goes to Samuel J. Palmisano, who steps down on Sunday after nearly a decade as chief executive. During his tenure, I.B.M. has been a textbook case of how to drive change in a big company -- when so much of the study of business innovation focuses on start-ups and entrepreneurs. 
This column is a glimpse of the thinking behind some of the major steps I.B.M. has taken under Mr. Palmisano's leadership, based on two recent interviews with him.
He says his guiding framework boils down to four questions:
''Why would someone spend their money with you -- so what is unique about you?''
''Why would somebody work for you?''
''Why would society allow you to operate in their defined geography -- their country?''
''And why would somebody invest their money with you?''
Mr. Palmisano formulated those questions in the months after he became C.E.O. in March 2002 His predecessor, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., recruited to I.B.M. in 1993, had already pulled the company out of a financial tailspin, first reducing the size of the work force and cutting costs, and then leading a remarkable recovery.
In meetings after he took over, Mr. Palmisano told colleagues that I.B.M. was still good, but that it wasn't the standard-setting corporation that it had been when he joined in 1973. (A history major at Johns Hopkins and a star offensive lineman on the football team, he turned down a tryout with the Oakland Raiders of the N.F.L. for a sales job at the company.)
The four questions, he explains, were a way to focus thinking and prod the company beyond its comfort zone and to make I.B.M. pre-eminent again. He presented the four-question framework to the company's top 300 managers at a meeting in early 2003 in Boca Raton, Fla.
''This needs to be our mission and goal, to make I.B.M. a great company,'' he said, according to executives who attended the gathering.
THE pursuit of excellence in those four dimensions shaped the strategy. To focus on doing unique work, with its higher profits, meant getting out of low-margin businesses that were fading. I.B.M.'s long-range technology assessment in 2002 concluded that the personal computer business would no longer present much opportunity for innovation, at least not in the corporate market.
The hub of innovation would shift to services and software, often delivered over the Internet from data centers, connecting to all kinds of devices, including PCs. Today, that is called cloud computing; when I.B.M. started promoting the concept several years ago the company called it on-demand computing.
So Mr. Palmisano led a lengthy strategic review of the PC business, deciding to sell while it was still profitable. Internal arguments against a sell-off were intense: PCs pulled in sales of other I.B.M. products in corporate accounts, the cost of electronic parts for its larger computers would jump without the purchasing power of its big PC division, and the corporate brand and its reputation would suffer without PCs, the one I.B.M. product touched by millions of people.
Lately, Hewlett-Packard has engaged in a similar debate, first declaring that it was looking to sell its PC business, then backing off. ''I've heard every one of the arguments, every one of them,'' Mr. Palmisano says. ''But if you decide you're going to move to a different space, where there's innovation and therefore you can do unique things and get some premium for that, the PC business wasn't going to be it.''
In 2004, I.B.M. sold its PC business to Lenovo of China. Mr. Palmisano says he deflected overtures from Dell and private equity firms, preferring the sale to a company in China for strategic reasons: the Chinese government wants its corporations to expand globally, and by aiding that national goal, I.B.M. enhanced its stature in the lucrative Chinese market, where the government still steers business.
In total, the PC, disk drive and other hardware businesses that Mr. Palmisano sold off generated nearly $20 billion a year in sales, if not a lot of profits.
The divestitures meant that I.B.M. was no longer the world's largest information technology company. Hewlett-Packard took that title and took a different strategic path as well, doubling its bet on PCs by acquiring Compaq in 2001. ''You see the choice that was made, and how the economics worked out,'' Mr. Palmisano observes.
Today, I.B.M.'s stock market value, at $217 billion, is more than four times that of the struggling H.P.
I.B.M. invested heavily elsewhere, buying the business consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting, for $3.5 billion in 2002, for its expertise in specific industries. For I.B.M., the emphasis was to move up from selling customers computers and software to helping them use technology to solve business challenges in marketing, procurement and manufacturing.
Corporations and governments are drowning in a flood of data from internal systems and the Web, struggling to make sense of it. To get ahead of that challenge, I.B.M. has spent more than $14 billion since 2005 buying 25 software companies that specialize in data mining and analytics, looking for useful patterns in data in fields as varied as disease treatment, traffic management and crime detection. And it has increased its research and development budget by 20 percent under Mr. Palmisano, to about $6 billion a year.
Combining research, specialized skills and sophisticated technology is the recipe behind I.B.M.'s Smarter Planet initiative, begun in 2008. It now has more than 2,000 projects worldwide, applying computer intelligence to create more efficient systems for utility grids, traffic management, food distribution, water conservation and health care.
The idea, Mr. Palmisano explains, is to ''go to a space where you're uniquely positioned and use the value of I.B.M.'s integration.''
For him, the Smarter Planet effort is a return to I.B.M.'s roots. Shortly before he became chief executive, he dipped into corporate archives, reading speeches and memos from the founder, Thomas Watson Sr. When Mr. Palmisano was an executive assistant to John F. Akers, then the chairman, in 1989 and 1990, he had lunch with Thomas J. Watson Jr., a former chairman, once a month. The Watsons, he says, always defined I.B.M. as a company that did more than sell computers; they believed that it had an important role to play in solving societal challenges.
''It's old-fashioned, but it's motivational,'' he says.
And it resonates with the young people I.B.M. is recruiting these days, he says. A couple of times a year, Mr. Palmisano speaks to groups of elite students whom I.B.M. is trying to woo to its research labs. The pitch, he says, is that I.B.M. is a place where you can make a difference and do deep science.
''You can change the world, and you can compete for a Nobel prize,'' he says, referring to I.B.M.'s five Nobel winners.
(Eighty-seven percent of the candidates who were offered jobs by I.B.M. Research this year joined the company.)
Mr. Palmisano's appeal to young technologists is just one example of an answer to one of his four questions. All four, he says, must be addressed. That challenge is now passed to Virginia M. Rometty, who this week becomes the ninth chief executive in the company's 100-year history.
''The hardest thing is answering those four questions,'' Mr. Palmisano says. ''You've got to answer all four and work at answering all four to really execute with excellence.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Samuel J. Palmisano, who is departing as I.B.M.'s chief, devised four questions that pushed his huge company to stay a step ahead of rivals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); SALES FORCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); HISTORY (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%); SPORTS (63%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



44 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4371 words

HEADLINE: The Year Ahead (We Expect)

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, THOMAS KAPLAN, LIZ ROBBINS, KATE TAYLOR, RAYMOND HERNANDEZ, JOHN ELIGON, MOSI SECRET, BENJAMIN WEISER, CHARLES V. BAGLI, PATRICK McGEEHAN, FERNANDA SANTOS, MIREYA NAVARRO, ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS, KIRK SEMPLE, LISA W. FODERARO, MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and AL BAKER

 BODY:
THE only safe thing to say about the future is that, borrowing from Mort Sahl, it lies ahead. After that, we are all on our own.
The year just past provided ample evidence of the unpredictable nature of that elusive quantity known as news. Who, on Jan. 1, 2011, could have foreseen the Dominique Strauss-Kahn sexual assault case, or Tropical Storm nee Hurricane Irene, or the relatively stress-free passage of a same-sex marriage law, or Representative Anthony D. Weiner's political death by tweet, or the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement, or -- ending the year on a painful note -- the killing of Police Officer Peter J. Figoski?
You can pretty much take as a given that 2012 in New York will be defined by events none of us can imagine today. But that is no reason not to lay down markers. On that premise, The New York Times's Metro reporters have outlined the developments they expect to track in coming months. 
Mayoral politics, for example, are likely to shape a great deal that happens in our civic life. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg enters the second half of his third and presumably final term. (With this man, you never know.) In the twilight of their administrations, mayors typically focus on an ill-defined concept called their Legacy. Mayors also typically deny that they are making any decisions with posterity in mind. There is no reason to assume Mr. Bloomberg will be an exception on either score.
Waiting in the wings, with what will be mounting impatience, are half a dozen or more would-be mayors, all of whom can be expected to insist that, scout's honor, no political motivation whatsoever lies behind what they say and do this year. Count on the 2013 election's being uppermost in their minds.
Test scores for public school students will rise. Or they will fall. Whatever. Either way, New Yorkers will argue over what, if anything, the numbers mean. Ditto for crime statistics.
Albany will be both blessing and curse to the city. Thus it is ever.
The local economy may feel the effects of layoffs in financial services this past year. Even hard-core haters of the 1 percent might come to appreciate the importance of Wall Street types to the public purse, not that many of them would ever say so publicly.
A bunch of New York politicians with shady reputations are expected to stand in the dock on corruption charges in 2012, including but not limited to the formerly potent State Senators Pedro Espada Jr. and Hiram Monserrate, the latter already sentenced for domestic violence against his girlfriend. Will they be convicted and sent away for long spells?
And a system of bike sharing is supposed to arrive in 2012. Will we thus become Paris on the Hudson? Peut-etre.
We'd offer predictions on these and many other matters, only we remember words of caution from the late New York columnist Murray Kempton, who once said that his main virtue as a prognosticator was to be wrong 10 minutes ahead of everyone else. Would that we were even half as good as he.
Albany
Last year featured the much-anticipated return of an Albany tradition: a Cuomo as governor. This year will restore another: pigs in a blanket.
In the bleak Albany winter, the little things count. A new ethics law brokered by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo last year lifted what amounted to a ban in 2007 on hors d'oeuvres at receptions for public officials. That means lawmakers can once again enjoy events like the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce's Brooklyn Night, featuring Nathan's hot dogs, Junior's cheesecake and refreshments from Brooklyn Brewery.
While not browsing platters of mini-quiches, lawmakers will have to close a projected $2 billion budget gap and finish the decennial process of redrawing the state's political district map to reflect the most recent census.
Legislators will also begin amending the state's Constitution to legalize Las Vegas-style casinos, and the Cuomo administration is finalizing new rules governing the controversial form of natural gas extraction known as hydrofracking.
For Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who remains extraordinarily popular with voters, the challenge will be to follow an impressive first year with a comparable second act.
As the year goes on, legislating will give way to campaigning. Every state legislator is up for re-election, including the four Republican state senators who broke from their party to provide the critical votes to legalize same-sex marriage, and whom opponents of the marriage law have vowed to drive out of office. THOMAS KAPLAN
Brooklyn When the sports arena that anchors the $4.9 billion Atlantic Yards project finally opens in September, after more than eight years of lawsuits and construction delays, it will undoubtedly transform Downtown Brooklyn. But will the 19,000-seat Barclays Center, soon to be home to the Nets and host to Jay-Z, the circus and 200 other events a year, help its neighborhood become an epicenter of entertainment and commerce, as most officials predict? Or will it be a vortex of traffic, trash and other civic headaches, as some residents fear?
Wedged into the triangle between Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, on top of a rebuilt transit hub, the arena has already closed streets, bred rats and infuriated neighbors during its construction. And the ribbon-cutting will not be the end. Forest City Ratner intends to break ground this spring on the first of 16 more buildings planned for the area around the stadium: a 32-story residential tower that could make pioneering use of lower-cost modular construction.
The ambition of Atlantic Yards speaks to the flourishing of Brooklyn development in general: from rental high-rises downtown to boutique hotels in Williamsburg to big-box stores in East New York. Walmart is hoping to muscle its way there this year, having already made donations to the community and the charity of Marty Markowitz, the borough president. LIZ ROBBINS
City Hall
The 2013 mayoral election will loom over most everything in New York City politics this year.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will try to solidify his legacy. A new Cornell University science graduate school will hold its first classes in September (its planned $2 billion campus on Roosevelt Island will materialize more slowly), and construction will start on a 51-story office building over the Hudson railyards -- a major step toward City Hall's vision for Manhattan's far West Side.
Financial filings due in January will shed light on the strength of the likely Democratic mayoral candidates, including Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller; Bill de Blasio, the public advocate; Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president; and Tom Allon, a newspaper publisher and political newcomer. The filings may also illuminate whether John C. Liu, the comptroller, remains viable as a candidate despite an F.B.I. investigation into his fund-raising practices.
(The Republican Party most likely will not turn its attention to drafting a candidate until after the presidential election.)
Ms. Quinn will reckon with how much she wants to be seen as Mr. Bloomberg's successor when she decides the fate of the so-called living wage bill, which he opposes.
The economy will remain a challenge, and a large hole may open in the city's budget if its actuary determines that its pension investments are underfunded.
The year will also bring happy news. Ms. Quinn will marry her partner of a decade, Kim Catullo. And, who knows, maybe the mayor's office will finally finish renovating Room 9 -- the pressroom in City Hall -- and the news media's long exile to a nearby trailer will end. KATE TAYLOR
Congress Members of New York's Congressional delegation are bracing for a brutal 2012.
New York's population growth has not kept pace with that of other states. As a result, the number of representatives the state has in the House will shrink next year to 27 from 29.
It will fall to the governor and the 211 members of the State Legislature to draw up the new Congressional maps and determine where the casualties will occur. As a result, many House members are aggressively working their ties in Albany to protect their districts.
If history is any guide, Democratic and Republican leaders in the State Legislature will try to strike a deal in which each party gives up one Congressional seat. But that kind of brazenly political solution will probably not sit well with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who wants to wring the politics out of the redistricting process.
With strong support from government reform groups, Mr. Cuomo has proposed that the Legislature create a nonpartisan commission to redraw the boundaries for Congressional and state legislative districts in New York. It is anyone's guess whether he will get his way, particularly since lawmakers in Albany have no desire to give up their role. On top of that, Mr. Cuomo, who is said to harbor national political ambitions, will most likely come under intense pressure from Democratic leaders in Washington to pursue the wishes and needs of his own party. RAYMOND HERNANDEZ
Courts The new year will bring more high-profile political corruption cases to the city's federal courts.
Pedro Espada Jr., a Democrat who served as the State Senate majority leader, is to go on trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn in March. Mr. Espada and his son, Pedro Gautier Espada, are accused of siphoning more than half a million dollars in federal money from the nonprofit health care network they operated in the Bronx and spending it on items like meals, theater tickets and a lavish birthday party.
William F. Boyland Jr., a Democratic state assemblyman from Brooklyn, could also be tried in Brooklyn in 2012. In December, Mr. Boyland was indicted on bribery charges after prosecutors said he was recorded accepting thousands of dollars in bribes and soliciting more than $250,000. Prosecutors said he sought the money to pay his lawyer's fees in another bribery case (he was acquitted in that case in November).
Carl Kruger, the once-powerful state senator from Brooklyn who pleaded guilty to corruption charges in December, faces sentencing in April in Federal District Court in Manhattan. He could receive a prison term of up to 50 years. Hiram Monserrate, a former state senator from Queens, faces charges in a separate corruption case. And prosecutors plan to retry City Councilman Larry B. Seabrook after his earlier corruption trial ended in a mistrial in December.
Other federal cases in Manhattan involve Mansour J. Arbabsiar, a defendant accused in what officials say was an Iranian-supported plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States; and Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame, a Somali defendant accused of supporting terrorist organizations whose detention and questioning aboard a Navy vessel may complicate a civilian prosecution.
The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., is taking on terrorism in the city's criminal courts. For the first time in the borough's history, his office got indictments under the state's terrorism statute in 2011. And it did so twice.
The first was against two Queens men with Middle Eastern roots who are accused of buying weapons from undercover officers and threatening to blow up a mosque. The second was against a Manhattan man -- said to be inspired by the American-born militant Anwar al-Awlaki -- suspected of plotting to build and detonate bombs in New York.
Both cases were somewhat controversial, as the F.B.I. and Manhattan federal prosecutors, who typically handle terrorism cases, passed on both. Some have suggested that the federal authorities' decision was a sign of the cases' weakness.
But Mr. Vance's office has steadfastly maintained that it is well equipped to prosecute homegrown terrorism suspects. The cases' outcome could well set a precedent.
The other big story to watch in the Manhattan courts will be Mr. Vance himself. He will soon begin to campaign openly for re-election. His predecessor, Robert M. Morgenthau, lasted more than 30 years in office. So far no one has solidly stepped forward to challenge Mr. Vance, though some have been rumored to be contemplating a run.
And then there is the matter of Julian P. Heicklen, 79, a retired professor charged in Manhattan Federal Court with jury tampering. He had stood outside the courthouse advocating jury nullification, the controversial view that if jurors oppose a law, they may ignore their oaths to follow it and acquit a defendant who violated it.
It is not yet known how a jury trial of Mr. Heicklen might unfold; indeed, prosecutors have expressed concern he might ask a jury to nullify his case. JOHN ELIGON, MOSI SECRET and BENJAMIN WEISER
Development Gambling is becoming a blood sport among developers. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo wants a constitutional amendment to legalize full casino gambling. That's the easy part. There are already nine racetrack casinos and six American Indian casinos in New York. But the battle will be fierce over how many new casinos to allow, and where.
The racetracks don't want competition. Other interests would cut the ties between casino gambling and horse racing. The Seneca and Oneida Nations oppose legalization. The Las Vegas and Atlantic City outfits favor casinos everywhere, especially in Manhattan; otherwise they will try to kill the amendment. What will Donald J. Trump or Stephen A. Wynn do? In the meantime, it's a full employment act for the lobbyists.
The major developers -- Related, Boston Properties, Hines, Minskoff and Brookfield -- all talked about building office towers in Manhattan in 2011, with or without tenants lined up. But as the year wound down, they grew more nervous. Boston Properties has a building under construction at 55th Street and Eighth Avenue, as does Minskoff on Astor Place. But the others have not put a shovel in the ground. Who will be the winners and losers?
Will the tenants of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village finally be able to buy the complexes, preserve middle-class housing and prevent another auction in which the 11,232 apartments would be sold to some inept speculator?
And will tourists stop coming to New York if the economic crisis in Europe deepens? Fifty million tourists visited New York in 2011, up from 30 million in the early 1990s. What happens if all those rooms start to go empty? CHARLES V. BAGLI
Economy After an astonishingly quick and robust recovery from the recession, the city's financial industry was hit hard in 2011. The big American and foreign banks that dominate the action on Wall Street resharpened their axes and cut even more staff members last year than in 2009: more than 200,000 jobs were lost, many of them in the city.
Whatever New Yorkers think of bankers, the city's economy relies on their outsize compensation. The city's Independent Budget Office forecasts that the financial companies will continue to shed jobs through the first half of 2012. And then the hiring will be grudging: Marisa Di Natale, an economist at Moody's Analytics, predicts that Wall Street will not regain all its lost jobs for more than a decade.
The Euro crisis, meanwhile, threatens more than just the tourism economy. Some financial analysts fear that one or more big European banks could collapse, as Lehman Brothers did, and jolt the city.
PATRICK McGEEHAN
Education All signs point to the public release of performance rankings for thousands of New York City teachers in 2012. The records rate 12,000 of the city's 75,000 teachers and are based on how much progress students made on the state's standardized tests, a controversial measurement tool.
After several court rulings favoring the rankings' disclosure, the teachers' union is running out of legal options to keep them confidential. Losing on this issue would not be likely to undermine the union's political clout, though. Public education will undoubtedly play a central role in the 2013 mayoral race, and candidates will be expected to lay out their visions for the future once their campaigns pick up steam. One key question will be whether they will push to keep the schools under mayoral control.
The union stayed neutral in the last election, which many interpreted as a tacit approval of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's bid for a third term. It is nearly certain to pick a favorite this time, and it is banking on using its endorsement as a bargaining chip. The teachers' contract expired in November 2009, and negotiations have been stalled since. The contract is headed for nonbinding arbitration this year, but it is possible that a final agreement will not be sealed until the next mayor takes office. FERNANDA SANTOS
Environment The biggest environmental decision for New York State in 2012 will be how to regulate drilling for natural gas on the Marcellus Shale, the rich gas field that stretches from New York to Virginia, using the extraction method known as hydrofracking.
Even though drilling will be banned in watersheds supplying New York City's drinking water, public opposition to hydrofracking is strong both in the city and in the areas upstate where the new industry promises economic rewards while posing risks to the environment and water supplies. The Cuomo administration is accepting public comments on its environmental impact document and proposed drilling regulations until Jan. 11. Then the Department of Environmental Conservation will prepare to release its final rules and start issuing drilling permits.
But given the charged atmosphere and the agency's own budget and staff constraints, the timing, size and scope of any hydrofracking program are still very much up in the air.
Closer to home, a new recycling plant is scheduled to open in Brooklyn near the end of the year or in the first half of 2013, making it possible for the city to recycle plastics like yogurt cups that residents now have to toss in the garbage.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's efforts to increase the energy efficiency of buildings may also get significant help. Under a proposal being reviewed by community and borough boards in advance of the City Council, the city would strike certain zoning and energy-code requirements to make it easier for property owners to build energy-efficient buildings and make improvements like adding insulation to exterior walls and installing awnings, skylights, green roofs and solar panels. MIREYA NAVARRO
Health Budget constraints brought on by the bad economy have already made it more difficult for Albany to bail out failing hospitals in the city. North General in Harlem, propped up for years by the local political establishment, closed in 2010. So did St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, and two hospitals in Queens closed in 2009.
Brooklyn is next. In the coming year, the state will have to decide how to deal with a few struggling hospitals serving poor communities there. Mergers and reorganizations are on the table, and thousands of jobs and the welfare of tens of thousands of patients are at stake.
In 2012, a special master, Sheila L. Birnbaum, will begin distributing a limited federal pot of $2.8 billion to thousands of people sickened by the 9/11 attacks. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health is in the process of determining whether those stricken by cancer should be eligible for compensation, which may further tax the fund. A governor's task force is also grappling with how to rein in the constantly rising costs of the state's Medicaid program, which is probably the most generous in the nation.
The federal health care overhaul will introduce a new catchphrase, ''accountable care,'' really a system of financial incentives for doctors, clinics and hospitals to coordinate care and reduce costs. To make accountable care work, hospital systems are likely to become bigger than ever, with academic medical centers gobbling up smaller community hospitals. Patient satisfaction will be their new mantra, even as they argue that patients cannot always tell the difference between great care and great atmosphere. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS
Immigration Nothing in 2012 is likely to have a bigger impact on the lives of immigrants in New York than the Obama administration's plan to review every pending case in the nation's immigration courts. The goal is to speed the deportations of convicted criminals while sparing many illegal immigrants who have no criminal records and have deep roots in the community.
In the absence of comprehensive revisions to federal immigration law, meanwhile, state governments will continue to move unilaterally on immigration issues. New York remains one of the nation's friendlier states to immigrants, and some legislators are seeking to expand educational opportunities for illegal immigrants by making them eligible for state financial aid and scholarships. The idea has received the backing of the Board of Regents, and a related bill may come up for a vote in 2012.
New York City, led by an ardently pro-immigrant mayor, is still one of the most accommodating places in the world for outsiders. Following paths carved by so many before them, thousands of newcomers will arrive from abroad next year, many fleeing armed conflicts, famine or poverty. And, by and large, New York will embrace them. E. B. White spoke for many when he wrote in ''Here Is New York,'' his 1949 love letter to the city, that those residents who were ''born somewhere else and came to New York in quest of something'' made for ''the greatest'' aspect of the city. ''The settlers,'' he said, ''give it passion.'' KIRK SEMPLE
Parks
Across the city's 1,700 parks, the coming year will see much new development as well as the reopening of some long-defunct attractions.
The most intriguing might be the $50 million renovation of the McCarren Park pool in Brooklyn, on the Greenpoint-Williamsburg border. One of 11 that opened in 1936 under the reign of Robert Moses, the pool was closed in 1984 after deteriorating badly. In its heyday, it must have felt like a vast lake, accommodating a staggering 6,800 people in its 55,440 square feet. (Under today's codes, that expanse would allow 2,200 bathers.)
The basin will shrink to 38,000 square feet under the renovation, but will still hold an impressive crowd of 1,500 when it opens in time for summer. The project will also restore a historic bathhouse and convert the pool complex into a year-round destination, with a recreation center, a performance space, a rooftop cafe and a planned ice-skating rink.
At Brooklyn Bridge Park, already a popular destination, Pier 5 is scheduled to open in the fall with three recreation fields and a picnic area. A new pedestrian bridge will link Squibb Park in Brooklyn Heights to Pier 1 for quicker, safer access to the waterfront park.
In Manhattan, construction will conclude on a new restaurant and boathouse in Hudson River Park on Pier 26 in TriBeCa, while a land-use review will get under way for a planned 400,000-square-foot open-air market on Pier 57, near the end of West 15th Street. The market project will also include restaurants, food kiosks and a rooftop park. LISA W. FODERARO
Police
If 2010 and 2011 are any guides, about 100,000 of the most serious sorts of crimes will be committed in the city in the coming year, from murder to auto theft.
The Police Department will remain under public scrutiny. This year may determine the fates of 16 officers indicted in October in a ticket-fixing investigation in the Bronx. Plea negotiations for several officers accused in a gun-and-cigarette smuggling case will unfold. And a panel of former prosecutors will most likely issue findings on the integrity of the city's crime statistics -- a rare instance in which Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has opened internal books to outside review.
For Mr. Kelly, it will be his 11th consecutive year in his second stint as commissioner, and he will face a new round of questions about whether he will seek the mayor's office.
The department's head count will be watched. An average of 1,500 officers have retired annually since 2007, with the number approaching 2,000 in 2010, alarming union leaders. About 900 recruits will enter the Police Academy in January, bringing the ranks to 35,600, down from a peak of about 41,000 a decade ago.
A new Police Academy will rise against the Queens skyline, eventually replacing a center in Manhattan that many thought was outdated when it opened, particularly for its lack of adequate women's facilities.
And, with Occupy Wall Street's encampment possibly returning to New York in a presidential year, the department's posture toward public disorder is something no police manager will ignore. AL BAKER
Transportation
This year, for the first time in decades, New Yorkers will be allowed to hail livery cabs legally on the street. Thousands of cars, not painted yellow but equipped with meters and credit-card readers, will be licensed to pick up fares outside of busy parts of Manhattan. How the zones will be enforced remains an open question.
If you can't still find a taxi, you may be able to rent a bike. By summertime, the city will unveil an ambitious bike-sharing system, with 10,000 bicycles available for short-term rentals at 600 locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Similar programs are immensely popular in London, Paris and Washington, but critics worry about congestion, safety and where the kiosks will be placed.
Signing a new labor contract (and avoiding a strike) will be the top priority for the new chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Joseph J. Lhota -- although he must survive his confirmation hearings in January first. Fares and tolls should stay the same in 2012, assuming lawmakers resist taking money from transit, and Mr. Lhota has promised no cuts to bus and subway service. Stay tuned.
Come spring, cash will no longer be accepted at the Henry Hudson Bridge's toll booths; those without E-ZPasses will be sent a bill by mail. On Staten Island, travelers will be able to track the locations of buses in real time online. And riders on the crowded L train can expect some relief: by summer, New York City Transit will add another train in the mornings and more round-trips on weekends. MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM
2012 IN NEW YORK:
Fourteen capsule summaries of the coming year's likely news, by the writers who cover those beats. Pages 4 and 5.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) (MB1
MB4
 MB5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (70%); SENTENCING (66%); CORRUPTION (66%); CRIME STATISTICS (61%); STATISTICS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (56%); MARRIAGE LAW (56%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (56%); MARRIAGE (56%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (71%); ANTHONY D WEINER (55%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



45 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Booming Sales for the Brands That Moguls Desire

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
IF you want to stir things up at an Occupy Wall Street encampment, mention that Bentleys and Rolls-Royces are selling like truffle-infused hotcakes. But executives at those storied British brands say their success is not just a 1 percent solution; brisk sales of ultraluxury models, you see, bode well for the masses that drive Chevys. 
The recession may have sidelined some buyers in the fund-manager class, but Bentley's sales around the world zoomed roughly 30 percent in 2011. And over at Rolls-Royce, the new Ghost -- a mere $250,000, but hardly downscale -- paced the brand to a global sales record, said David Archibald, president of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars North America. That total, some 3,500 cars, follows a record 2,711 sales in 2010.
The first decade of the millennium brought roughly a tenfold explosion in popularity for Bentley and Rolls, which shared the British luxury throne before being conquered, separated and modernized by German automakers. It may have been a blow to national pride, but Bentley and Rolls, backed by the deep pockets of Volkswagen and BMW respectively, at last had the resources to develop new models that reached showrooms as the sales drought abated.
More help from Germany, if somewhat less direct, arrived with Daimler's recent decision to wind down its white-elephant Maybach brand. Despite some notoriety -- the rappers Jay-Z and Kanye West dissected a Maybach as a lark in the music video for this year's ''Otis'' -- the $350,000 Maybach limousines never caught on with movers and shakers.
Christophe Georges, Bentley's North American president, said that rising luxury-car sales showed that consumers were regaining faith in the economy. That connection is stronger for cars than for other luxury goods because they are such visible symbols of wealth.
''If you collect art, no one sees it outside your home,'' he said. ''But when people are losing jobs, you don't want to show off a new Bentley. So when luxury cars move up, it's a real expression of confidence.''
Rolls-Royce's growing popularity in China and in Chinese expatriate communities like Vancouver, British Columbia, sparked a commemorative Year of the Dragon Collection, a 2012 Phantom whose bespoke features include dragon-embroidered headrests and dragon inlays.
But even if -- or when -- China becomes the leading buyer of high six-figure cars, the high-profile United States market will continue to dictate the competitive terms, Mr. Archibald said.
''The North American market is still our most important,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAYDAY: A Maybach hood ornament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEYUR KHAMAR/BLOOMBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); RAP MUSIC (69%); ART COLLECTING (62%)

PERSON: NOLAN D ARCHIBALD (54%); KANYE WEST (50%); JAY-Z (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (51%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (91%); GERMANY (87%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



46 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK IN PREVIEW 2012; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Development

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Gambling is becoming a blood sport among developers. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo wants a constitutional amendment to legalize full casino gambling. That's the easy part. There are already nine racetrack casinos and six American Indian casinos in New York. But the battle will be fierce over how many new casinos to allow, and where. 
The racetracks don't want competition. Other interests would cut the ties between casino gambling and horse racing. The Seneca and Oneida Nations oppose legalization. The Las Vegas and Atlantic City outfits favor casinos everywhere, especially in Manhattan; otherwise they will try to kill the amendment. What will Donald J. Trump or Stephen A. Wynn do? In the meantime, it's a full employment act for the lobbyists.
The major developers -- Related, Boston Properties, Hines, Minskoff and Brookfield -- all talked about building office towers in Manhattan in 2011, with or without tenants lined up. But as the year wound down, they grew more nervous. Boston Properties has a building under construction at 55th Street and Eighth Avenue, as does Minskoff on Astor Place. But the others have not put a shovel in the ground. Who will be the winners and losers?
Will the tenants of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village finally be able to buy the complexes, preserve middle-class housing and prevent another auction in which the 11,232 apartments would be sold to some inept speculator?
And will tourists stop coming to New York if the economic crisis in Europe deepens? Fifty million tourists visited New York in 2011, up from 30 million in the early 1990s. What happens if all those rooms start to go empty? CHARLES V. BAGLI

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (96%); GAMING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); HORSE RACING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%); STEPHEN A WYNN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



47 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Obama Strategy For '12 Election: Attack Congress

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
HONOLULU -- President Obama is heading into his re-election campaign with plans to step up his offensive against an unpopular Congress, concluding that he cannot pass any major legislation in 2012 because of Republican hostility toward his agenda.
Mr. Obama's election-year strategy is an attempt to capitalize on his recent victory on a short-term extension of the payroll tax cut and on his rising poll numbers. As the stage is set for November, he intends to hammer the theme of economic justice for ordinary Americans rather than continue his legislative battles with Congressional Republicans, said Joshua R. Earnest, the president's deputy press secretary, previewing the White House's strategy.
''In terms of the president's relationship with Congress in 2012,'' Mr. Earnest said at a briefing, ''the president is no longer tied to Washington, D.C.'' Winning a full-year extension of the cut in payroll taxes is the last ''must-do'' piece of legislation for the White House, he said.
However the White House chooses to frame Mr. Obama's strategy, it amounts to a wholesale makeover of the young senator who won the presidency in 2008 by promising to change the culture of Washington, rise above the partisan fray and seek compromises. 
After three years in office, Mr. Obama is gambling on a go-it-alone approach. In the coming weeks, he will further showcase measures he is taking on his own to revive the economy, Mr. Earnest said, declining to give details.
Mr. Obama has used his executive authority in recent weeks to promote the hiring of returning veterans and help students pay back their college loans. Underscoring the jobs theme, Mr. Obama plans to return to the road, starting with a trip to Cleveland on Wednesday to speak about the economy.
The White House laid out the election-year strategy last week here in Hawaii, where Mr. Obama is vacationing, just as attention turns to the Republican caucuses in Iowa on Tuesday.
The White House has been refining the message since July, when Mr. Obama's attempts to forge a ''grand bargain'' with the House Republicans on fiscal policy collapsed and he reverted to a populist, anti-Congress strategy. But it did not gain traction until the last few weeks, when polls began showing that nearly half of Americans approved of the job he was doing, up from percentages in the low 40s during most of the year. House Republicans inadvertently helped him just before they recessed for the holidays when they initially refused to extend the payroll tax cut.
Mr. Earnest said the strategy had successfully planted ''the image of a gridlocked, dysfunctional Congress and a president who is leaving no stone unturned to try to find solutions to the difficult financial challenges and economic challenges facing the country.''
Mr. Obama began emphasizing his new strategy in early December with a fiery speech in Osawatomie, Kan., where he said that ''breathtaking greed'' had contributed to the country's economic troubles and that this was a ''make-or-break moment for the middle class.''
In his weekly address on Saturday, Mr. Obama praised Congress for passing the two-month tax cut extension, but made it clear that the lawmakers had acted only under intense public pressure. He also repeated his vow to fight for middle-class Americans.
''As president, I promise to do everything I can to make America a place where hard work and responsibility are rewarded -- one where everyone has a fair shot and everyone does their fair share,'' he said.
Mr. Obama's confrontational approach carries risks, since the imprimatur of Congress is still required for important national business. But the budget deal that resolved the standoff over raising the debt ceiling last summer removed a major weapon Republicans had to push the president.
On Friday, for example, Mr. Obama agreed to delay a request to Congress for $1.2 trillion in additional borrowing authority. That will allow lawmakers to come back to Washington to voice their opposition to more red ink. But even if they vote to block the measure, Mr. Obama can veto it, knowing that the Democratic-controlled Senate will not override him.
The president's antagonism toward Congress evokes that of President Harry S. Truman, whose come-from-behind campaign in 1948 focused on a ''do-nothing Congress.'' But Republican analysts have pointed out that the national unemployment rate in November 1948 was 3.8 percent -- not 8.6 percent, as it is now -- and that the American economy was on the upswing.
''Americans expect their elected leaders to work together to boost job creation, even in an election year,'' said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner. ''Divided government can be challenging, but that's no excuse for him to put his presidency on autopilot when so many Americans are looking for work.''
For Mr. Obama, a heavily partisan strategy carries the risk of alienating independent and moderate voters who are fed up with Washington's gridlock. On the Republican presidential campaign trail, Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, and Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, both point to their legislative successes working with Democrats.
Mr. Obama also risks antagonizing Congressional Democrats, who were angry when administration officials, including the White House chief of staff, William M. Daley, criticized Congress without distinguishing between Democrats and Republicans.
Democratic leaders said they were satisfied that Mr. Obama was adequately making that distinction, and they said they understood why he would want to run against a Congress whose Republican leadership had blocked his legislation and declared that its primary goal was to defeat him in November.
''He has been emphatic in stating that he is running against obstructionist Republicans in the House,'' said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''As long as the president includes the word Republican when he says he is running against Congress, more power to him.''
After a year in which the White House often seemed a hostage to the Tea Party contingent in the Republican-controlled House, the administration is savoring Mr. Obama's victory in December in obtaining a two-month extension to keep most workers' Social Security payroll tax at 4.2 percent, down from 6.2 percent.
''The significance of that fight,'' Mr. Earnest said, ''is that it gave the president the opportunity to establish his bona fides on an issue that, at least in recent history, Democrats haven't fared very well with, which is the issue of taxes.'' He pointed to polls that he said showed that Mr. Obama was now more trusted on taxes than Republicans were.
Winning a full-year extension of the payroll tax, Mr. Earnest said, will still be a top priority. He noted that House Republicans were now also arguing that it should be extended for a year, after some initially opposed extending it at all.
''There are certainly other things the president would like to do,'' Mr. Earnest said, citing other provisions of the jobs bill. ''But in terms of essential, must-do items, the payroll tax cut extension is the last one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama speaking to reporters after a payroll tax cut was extended for two months despite resistance in the House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); STUDENT LOANS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (91%) HAWAII, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



48 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: The Year Ahead (We Expect)

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
There will be surprises. But here's a preview of likely events in 2012 in New York, from the Metro reporters of The New York Times.
THE only safe thing to say about the future is that, borrowing from Mort Sahl, it lies ahead. After that, we are all on our own. 
The year just past provided ample evidence of the unpredictable nature of that elusive quantity known as news. Who, on Jan. 1, 2011, could have foreseen the Dominique Strauss-Kahn sexual assault case, or Topical Storm nee Hurricane Irene, or the relatively stress-free passage of a same-sex marriage law, or Representative Anthony D. Weiner's political death by tweet, or the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement, or -- ending the year on a painful note -- the killing of Police Officer Peter J. Figoski?
You can pretty much take as a given that 2012 in New York will be defined by events none of us can imagine today. But that is no reason not to lay down markers. On that premise, The New York Times's Metro reporters have outlined the developments they expect to track in coming months.
Mayoral politics, for example, are likely to shape a great deal that happens in our civic life. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg enters the second half of his third and presumably final term. (With this man, you never know.) In the twilight of their administrations, mayors typically focus on an ill-defined concept called their Legacy. Mayors also typically deny that they are making any decisions with posterity in mind. There is no reason to assume Mr. Bloomberg will be an exception on either score.
Waiting in the wings, with what will be mounting impatience, are half a dozen or more would-be mayors, all of whom can be expected to insist that, scout's honor, no political motivation whatsoever lies behind what they say and do this year. Count on the 2013 election's being uppermost in their minds.
Test scores for public school students will rise. Or they will fall. Whatever. Either way, New Yorkers will argue over what, if anything, the numbers mean. Ditto for crime statistics.
Albany will be both blessing and curse to the city. Thus it is ever.
The local economy may feel the effects of layoffs in financial services this past year. Even hard-core haters of the 1 percent might come to appreciate the importance of Wall Street types to the public purse, not that many of them would ever say so publicly.
A bunch of New York politicians with shady reputations are expected to stand in the dock on corruption charges in 2012, including but not limited to the formerly potent State Senators Pedro Espada Jr. and Hiram Monserrate, the latter already sentenced for domestic violence against his girlfriend. Will they be convicted and sent away for long spells?
And a system of bike sharing is supposed to arrive in 2012. Will we thus become Paris on the Hudson? Peut-etre.
We'd offer predictions on these and many other matters, only we remember words of caution from the late New York columnist Murray Kempton, who once said that his main virtue as a prognosticator was to be wrong 10 minutes ahead of everyone else. Would that we were even half as good as he.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Albany
Brooklun
City Hall
Congress
Courts
Development
Economy
Education
Environment
Health
Immigration
Parks
Police
 Transportation (DRAWINGS BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SENTENCING (65%); CORRUPTION (65%); CRIME STATISTICS (60%); STATISTICS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (55%); MARRIAGE LAW (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%); MARRIAGE (55%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (70%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



49 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LOOSE ENDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: How Great Was 2012!

BYLINE: By BRUCE HANDY. 
Bruce Handy is a writer and editor at Vanity Fair.

 BODY:
Happy New Year! And I really mean it! Because 2012 is going to be the best year ever! Seriously! I know, because I'm a person from the future! And here in the future, guess what? It's 2112 and we're celebrating the centennial of 2012! That's how amazing 2012 is going to be!
You 2012ers are so lucky! Where to start? Politics? Your 2012 presidential election has gone down in history for all the right reasons! Our students still memorize Newt Gingrich's famous ''#EpicObamaFails'' tweet, revered by all for its eloquence and erudition! 
Same thing with Mitt Romney's South Carolina 20-Second Robocall Address! Because unlike most 21st-century elections, your 2012 campaign was fought on a battleground of principled insinuation, thoughtful pandering and only occasional pistol-whippings!
Also, your 2012 candidates refused to make a criminal issue of one another's religion! No aspirant to higher office was stoned, doused or burned at the stake! At least from a major party!
But that's not all! We in the future remember 2012 as the year the American economy finally got back on track! The same can-do spirit that built the transcontinental railroad and designed the computer chip managed to slap together a barter system that remains the envy of the organized world! Plus, whole new classes of jobs were created in 2012! Certified public organ donor! Accredited squatter! 7-Eleven clerk practitioner! The jobs that defined the 21st century!
And who can forget the London Olympics? Truly, yours was an era when athletes still hewed to noble ideals of sportsmanship and human ideals of DNA! A full 57 percent of 2012's medals were not voided by subsequent drug or chromosome testing -- a record that has stood for 100 years and counting! You should be proud, 2012! Plus, you still had a London!
The arts! Oh my gosh, the arts! How we in the 22nd century envy you the chance to see ''The Real Housewives of Orange County,'' Season 7, for the very first time! No spoilers here! But more to the point, how we envy you the chance to see it, period! Thank God for the oral tradition! And meanwhile, enjoy your electricity, 2012!
And speaking of periods -- and semicolons -- 2012 was the year we finally got rid of them! Yay, 2012!
Even the weather in 2012 was memorably awesome! Sweden enjoyed its last hurricane-free summer! They still talk about it in what's left of Stockholm!
There's so much more I want to tell you! But I have to get back to the New York of 2112 so I can help the Lexington Avenue Tribe fend off the giant undead flesh-eating mayor-for-life Michael Bloomberg! What? I didn't say anything about the giant undead flesh-eating mayor-for-life Bloomberg? He's not so bad, once you get used to him! And his appetite! You'll see! Soon! We just leave him offerings on his side of the Great Fifth Avenue Wall! That's what we farm children for, when we have dry land!
Anyway, I swear: you'll love 2012! I mean, with a year like that -- and I didn't even mention how all the radiation from Korean War II was successfully limited to just the Northern and Eastern Hemispheres! -- how could you not?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRAHAM ROUMIEU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); OLYMPICS (69%); RELIGION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (64%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (64%); ACCREDITATION (64%); JOB CREATION (64%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (51%) SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



50 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2906 words

HEADLINE: I Just Got Here, But I Know Trouble When I See It: From Six Economists, Six Ways to Confront 2012

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW, CHRISTINA D. ROMER; TYLER COWEN; ROBERT H. FRANK; ROBERT J. SHILLER and RICHARD H. THALER


HIGHLIGHT: N. GREGORY MANKIW A professor of economics at Harvard, he is advising Mitt Romney in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.; CHRISTINA D. ROMER An economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, she was chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.; TYLER COWEN A professor of economics at George Mason University.; ROBERT H. FRANK An economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.; ROBERT J. SHILLER A professor of economics and finance at Yale.; RICHARD H. THALER A professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.

 BODY:
BELIEVE it or not, times are getting better.
At least that's what the dry statistics keep telling us. Industrial production, G.D.P. -- the kind of figures that Washington and Wall Street sweat over -- suggest that the economy is on the mend.
Yet if we go beyond the Beltway and the Battery, to where most of American life is lived, the numbers don't always add up. Yes, the Great Recession officially ended in 2009. But many millions of Americans are out of work or cannot find full-time jobs. Home prices are wobbly. The foreclosure crisis drags on. And the Occupy movement's campaign against ''the 1 percent'' has underscored the ravages of income inequality.
It was, as always, a year of ups and downs in business. Washington said the nation's AAA rating was safe, but Standard & Poor's concluded that it wasn't. Europe insisted that its currency was sound, but investors worry that it isn't. Wall Street seemed perpetually on edge. After so many wild days, the American stock market ended 2011 about where it began. 
On this side of the Atlantic, aftershocks of the financial crisis of 2008-9 are still reverberating, though the worst has passed. Now, how Europe's economic troubles play out may determine whether job growth here finally picks up enough to make up for all the lost ground -- and whether that 401(k) is richer or poorer next Jan. 1.
Where to go from here? And how to face the challenges ahead? Sunday Business asked the six economists who write the Economic View column to do a little blue-sky thinking on issues as varied as the Fed, Europe and housing. You won't find stock tips. But if 2011 was any guide, the best advice for 2012 may be this: Hold tight.
Dear Mr. Bernanke:
Please Tell Us More
N. GREGORY MANKIW A professor of economics at Harvard, he is advising Mitt Romney in the campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.
WHAT can we do to get this economy going?
That's the question Ben Bernanke and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve must be asking. Officially, the recession ended a while ago. But with unemployment lingering above 8 percent, it still feels as if we're mired in a slump.
The Fed's typical response to lackluster growth is to reduce short-term interest rates. To its credit, it did that -- quickly and drastically -- as the recession unfolded in 2007 and 2008. Then it took various unconventional steps to push down long-term rates, including those on mortgages. Mr. Bernanke deserves more credit than anyone for preventing the financial crisis from turning into a second Great Depression.
Now, the key will be managing expectations. Financial markets always look ahead, albeit imperfectly. They not only care what the Fed does today but also about what it will do tomorrow. With official short-term rates already near zero, what the Fed does this year will be less important than what policy makers say they will do next year -- or the year after that.
A crucial question is how quickly the Fed will raise interest rates as the economy recovers. So far, Fed policy makers have said they expect to keep rates ''exceptionally low'' at least until mid-2013. There has even been talk about extending that time frame by a year, to mid-2014.
But Charles I. Plosser, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, was right when he said recently that ''policy needs to be contingent on the economy, not the calendar.'' The key to managing expectations will be spelling out this contingency plan in more detail. That is, what does the Fed need to see before it starts raising rates again?
Unfortunately, economists don't offer simple and unequivocal advice. Some suggest watching the overall inflation rate. Others say to watch inflation, but to exclude volatile food and energy prices. And still others advise targeting nominal gross domestic product, which weights inflation and economic growth equally.
Forging a consensus among members of Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, won't be easy. In fact, it may well be impossible. But the more clarity the Fed offers about its contingency plans, the better off we'll all be in the years ahead.
Two Big Problems,
Two Ready Solutions
CHRISTINA D. ROMER An economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, she was chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.
THE United States faces two daunting economic problems: an unsustainable long-run budget deficit and persistent high unemployment. Both demand aggressive action in the form of fiscal policy.
Waiting until after the November elections, as seems likely, would be irresponsible. It is also unnecessary, since there are plans to address both problems that should command bipartisan support.
On the deficit, the big worry isn't the current shortfall, which is projected to decline sharply as the economy recovers. Rather, it's the long-run outlook. Over the next 20 to 30 years, rising health care costs and the retirement of the baby boomers are projected to cause deficits that make the current one look puny. At the rate we're going, the United States would almost surely default on its debt one day. And like the costs of maintaining a home, the costs of dealing with our budget problems will only grow if we wait.
We already have a blueprint for a bipartisan solution. The Bowles-Simpson Commission hashed out a sensible plan of spending cuts, entitlement program reforms and revenue increases that would shave $4 trillion off the deficit over the next decade. It shares the pain of needed deficit reduction, while protecting the most vulnerable and maintaining investments in our future productivity. Congress should take up the commission's recommendation the first day it returns in January.
But we can't focus on the deficit alone. Persistent unemployment is destroying the lives and wasting the talents of more than 13 million Americans. Worse, the longer that people remain out of work, the more likely they are to suffer a permanent loss of skills and withdraw from the labor force.
Despite heated rhetoric to the contrary, the evidence that fiscal stimulus raises employment and lowers joblessness is stronger than ever. And pairing additional strong stimulus with a plan to reduce the deficit would likely pack a particularly powerful punch for confidence and spending.
The payroll tax cut for workers and employers and the extended unemployment insurance that President Obama proposed last September would help put people back to work.
But even better would be measures that increase employment today, while also leaving us with something of lasting value. Because many people worry about increasing the role of the federal government, why not give substantial federal funds to state and local governments for public investment? Tell them that the money has to be used for either physical infrastructure like roads, bridges and airports, or for human infrastructure like education, job training and scientific research. Then let the states, cities and towns figure out what would work best for their citizens.
Ronald Reagan once said that ''there are simple answers -- there just are not easy ones.'' What needs to happen on fiscal policy is relatively straightforward. The hard part is getting politicians to do it.
Thickening Clouds
Over Europe
TYLER COWEN A professor of economics at George Mason University.
HOW, and when, will Europe get out of its mess?
The short answer is this: not anytime soon, and not without more pain. The longer that Europe's troubles last, the worse and more insidious they become. Insolvent governments, troubled banks, divisive politics, painful austerity -- the list of problems is formidable already.
The best-case outlook is that the euro zone will, in effect, grow its way out of this crisis. The European Central Bank is now extending unlimited loans to banks in the 17 nations of the European Union that use the euro, provided that those banks put up collateral. The loans don't have to be paid back for three years, by which time it is hoped that steady growth will have returned.
In theory, these loans should ensure that Europe's banks stay liquid. Some of these banks, in turn, are already lending money to their national governments, and others may be forced to. In the short run, this will help keep euro zone governments funded, too.
If the economy starts growing again before the loans are due, the central bank's efforts to fix the Continent's solvency problems will have succeeded. The plan will have relieved pressure in the money markets and on the banks, since they would be backed by wealthier, more credible governments. We would probably have to write off Greece, but, under this circumstance, other euro zone countries would avoid a major financial crisis.
There are, however, several darker possibilities. One is that the economies of some major euro zone nations will continue to stagnate. In per-capita terms, Italy is already poorer than it was 12 years ago, so maybe it's stuck in a slow-growth mode. If that's the case, more borrowing from the European Central Bank is simply stretching an unsustainable situation.
Eventually, the central bank would have to let it be known that it is not expecting its money back. In this case, banks in weak nations would probably be unable to raise funds from the private sector. Confidence would evaporate. Some countries would end up abandoning the euro and printing their own currency to keep their promises to bank depositors and bondholders. The consequences could be disastrous, not only for Europe, but for the global economy.
A second danger would arise in Europe if an election, probably in a smaller country, gave rise to a government that repudiated the euro. Then, too, all bets would be off.
My guess -- and guess is the right word -- is that odds of this ending well are about one in three. Otherwise, fasten your seat belts.
Why 2 Paychecks
Are Barely Enough
ROBERT H. FRANKAn economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.
WHY do many middle-class families now struggle to get by on two paychecks, whereas most got by on just one back in the 1950s and '60s?
The answer, according to ''The Two-Income Trap,'' by Elizabeth Warren and Amelia Warren Tyagi, is that many second paychecks today go toward financing a largely fruitless bidding war for homes in good school districts.
Parents naturally want to send their kids to good schools. But quality is relative. Because the best schools tend to be those serving expensive neighborhoods, parents must outbid 50 percent of other parents with the same goal just to send their children to a school of average quality.
How hard is that? I constructed a measure I call the toil index. It tracks the number of hours a median earner must work each month to earn the implicit rent for the median-priced house.
From 1950 to 1970, when incomes were growing at about the same rate for families up and down the income ladder, the toil index actually declined slightly. But since 1970 -- a period during which income inequality has grown -- the toil index has risen sharply.
The increase in two-earner households explains only part of it. The climb in the toil index was also driven by the easy credit that fueled the housing bubble, as well as by an expenditure cascade in housing caused by growing income disparities.
Since 1970, the top 1 percent have captured most of the income growth in the nation. Like everyone else, the rich spend more on housing when they have more money. High-end houses become bigger and fancier. That shifts the frame of reference for the near rich, and so on down the income ladder. Because the median hourly wage, adjusted for inflation, has been falling, there's really no other way to explain why the median new house built in the United States in 2007 was about 50 percent larger than its counterpart in 1970.
The increase in the toil index has been spectacular. From a postwar low of 41 hours a month in 1970, it rose to more than 100 hours in 2005. Although it has fallen since the housing bubble burst, the middle-class squeeze persists.
Growing income disparities don't just make the 99 percent angry. They also raise the cost of achieving basic goals.
A Tax Credit to Fix
A Housing Mess
ROBERT J. SHILLERA professor of economics and finance at Yale.
WE used to talk a lot about helping homeowners in trouble.
Instead, the bankers were bailed out -- and now we hardly talk at all about aiding ordinary Americans.
Yet the problems facing homeowners today are even bigger than they were in the dark days of the financial crisis. According to the S.& P./Case-Shiller 20-city Home Price Index, home prices have fallen 13.2 percent since Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008. Over the same period, of course, unemployment has climbed.
In other words, more homeowners are underwater on their mortgages -- and more Americans are out of work. And home prices are still falling.
So we need to overcome the sense that real help is impossible -- and to think about approaches that might be politically feasible. Despite concern over our national debt and a general distaste for spending taxpayer dollars on people who may have been less responsible, there are some potential solutions.
Prof. Richard K. Green, director of the Lusk Center for Real Estate at the University of Southern California, has proposed changing the tax system so that it offers stronger, more targeted encouragement for homeownership by focusing on people who might be giving up the dream of buying any home at all. The current mortgage interest deduction, Professor Green argues, based on his work with Prof. Andrew Reschovsky of the University of Wisconsin, is mostly an incentive for relatively wealthy people to build bigger houses, rather than for people of modest means to buy a home. It also provides a strong incentive only for people in high tax brackets, who benefit more because of their higher marginal tax rates, and who tend to itemize because the standard deduction is less advantageous for them.
Professor Green wants to offer more help for lower-income taxpayers. He suggests creating a refundable tax credit as a percentage of mortgage interest payments, one that could be used even by those who take the standard deduction. This credit, presumably with some dollar limit, would be available to all homeowners. (That is in contrast to the HARP 2.0 mortgage refinancing program from the Obama administration; it is available, arbitrarily, only to those with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages.) Professor Green proposes paying for this change by gradually phasing out the existing mortgage interest deduction.
Homeownership fosters citizenship, builds stronger families and communities, encourages active participation in the economy and, ultimately, bolsters economic confidence. Professor Green's proposal is an example of a change that wouldn't smack of a bailout, but would help vulnerable people who are losing hope in the American Dream.
The Answer Starts
With a Salad Bar
RICHARD H. THALER A professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.
IN case you've forgotten, we have a crisis in health care spending. But employers can help us deal with it -- and save themselves some money -- with a few nudges.
The thesis of ''Nudge,'' which Cass R. Sunstein and I wrote in 2008, is that ''choice architects'' can often help people achieve their goals simply by making the necessary steps easier. As choice architects, employers can do a lot to improve their workers' health. That, in turn, can lead to more productive workers who have fewer sick days and cost less to insure.
Where to start? First, make it easier to eat well while at work. That doesn't mean limiting the cafeteria menu to tofu and cauliflower. It means offering various healthful, tasty options that are featured prominently. Put an attractive salad bar including some healthy proteins before the burger line, for instance, and subsidize the healthy food.
Second, make it easier to get some exercise during the workday. Walking just 30 minutes a day provides noticeable health benefits. Some ambitious companies have installed treadmills with workstations, but there are lower-cost solutions. Even a small to midsize business can probably arrange a discount at a health club.
You don't have to leave work to get some exercise. A good place to start is on the stairs. Walking a few flights several times a day is a good start on that 30 minutes. To entice workers, companies should make their stairwells attractive and fun. Add music, murals or graffiti contests. Or try lotteries with a chance to win any time you walk up or down one flight. Finally, better align health insurance incentives with behavior. One of the biggest health care problems is that patients don't keep up with their medications, even those that might save their lives. Why charge people who've had heart attacks a co-payment when they fill prescriptions that reduce the chance of another attack? Instead, make those prescriptions free and use technology to remind them to take their medicine, either with a text message or a pillbox that starts beeping if you forget to take your pills.
And here's a practice we should use more often: Offer insurance discounts to reward healthy behavior. Saving $500 on a premium is a good incentive to quit smoking or lose some weight.
My New Year's resolution is to take at least two walking meetings a week. How about you?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Will 2012's challenges match 2011's? Clockwise from above left, the Fed, led by Ben Bernanke, kept interest rates at rock-bottom. Some homebuilding picked up, but no fix emerged for the housing crisis. Aiming to corral health costs, companies offered in-house fitness plans. And strikers in Europe and Occupy protesters in Manhattan highlighted many workers' plight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES
JOSHUA LOTT/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
THIERRY ROGE/REUTERS
 AND OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS L. FLUHARTY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); FORECLOSURE (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BEN BERNANKE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



51 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK IN PREVIEW 2012; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: City Hall

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
The 2013 mayoral election will loom over most everything in New York City politics this year.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will try to solidify his legacy. A new Cornell University science graduate school will hold its first classes in September (its planned $2 billion campus on Roosevelt Island will materialize more slowly), and construction will start on a 51-story office building over the Hudson railyards -- a major step toward City Hall's vision for Manhattan's far West Side. 
Financial filings due in January will shed light on the strength of the likely Democratic mayoral candidates, including Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller; Bill de Blasio, the public advocate; Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president; and Tom Allon, a newspaper publisher and political newcomer. The filings may also illuminate whether John C. Liu, the comptroller, remains viable as a candidate despite an F.B.I. investigation into his fund-raising practices.
(The Republican Party most likely will not turn its attention to drafting a candidate until after the presidential election.)
Ms. Quinn will reckon with how much she wants to be seen as Mr. Bloomberg's successor when she decides the fate of the so-called living wage bill, which he opposes.
The economy will remain a challenge, and a large hole may open in the city's budget if its actuary determines that its pension investments are underfunded.
The year will also bring happy news. Ms. Quinn will marry her partner of a decade, Kim Catullo. And, who knows, maybe the mayor's office will finally finish renovating Room 9 -- the pressroom in City Hall -- and the news media's long exile to a nearby trailer will end. KATE TAYLOR

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (93%); MAYORS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); LIVING WAGE (65%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (64%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



52 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2778 words

HEADLINE: Glory Days

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
It was just after dawn in Coralville, Iowa, the week before Christmas, and I asked the young waitress at the hotel restaurant if she would kindly direct Newt Gingrich to my table when he arrived. She looked uncertain.
''Would you recognize Newt Gingrich?'' I asked her.
''I think my manager probably would,'' she said.
This was, I thought, a bad omen for Gingrich, in a week that was full of them. He had returned to Iowa just as the latest round of polls showed him losing ground and a barrage of brutal anti-Gingrich ads was lighting up TVs from Sioux City to Davenport. Back in Washington, his fellow Republicans were mobilizing to keep him as far away from the nomination as possible. George Will had called him the ''classic rental politician,'' meaning that Gingrich would take up any cause for cash, and National Review felt moved to warn its readers that selecting Newt would be a grave mistake for the G.O.P. 
The candidate himself, though, seemed almost jaunty when he arrived for breakfast, dressed in the Republican-issue uniform of red tie, white shirt and indeterminate dark suit. Soon he was scooping yogurt and blueberries into his mouth and ruminating on the question of why his own party's leaders thought he would be a disastrous nominee.
''I think I'm a mortal threat to their world,'' he said. ''First of all, how would they know? These are the same people who said I was dead in June, the people who said Reagan didn't have a prayer, O.K.? The Republican establishment is anti-intellectual and anti-change. They're for winning as long as it's meaningless. But meaningful victory would mean really big risks.
''I'm running because I want to change the old order,'' he told me. ''They are the old order.''
Gingrich talks this way a lot now. If you're a skeptic, or maybe a realist, you might note that Gingrich doesn't make for the most persuasive outsider, having once been the top elected Republican in the country and having advised just about every leading Republican since. ''When I come to Washington'' is a phrase Gingrich sometimes uses when talking to voters about his hypothetical presidency, even though he has been in Washington for more than 30 years, most recently operating from the offices of his own small empire on K Street. If Gingrich is in fact elected next November, he could probably walk his own boxes over to the White House.
You might also be tempted to point out that Gingrich doesn't seem to be leading a populist wave so much as getting swept up in one, that he's really just the latest in a string of Not-Romneys -- Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry, Herman Cain -- to be temporarily buoyed and then dashed on the rocks. Next week, it might be Ron Paul, or Rick Santorum, or even Buddy Roemer, who's apparently still running. If this seems self-evident to you, though, it is not so to Gingrich. As he sees it, the current of history has been carrying him toward this moment, or something like it, for many years. And what do a few negative ads and falling poll numbers mean in the face of that? He rejects the word ''destiny'' (''I carry a sense of fate, not destiny,'' he said during our breakfast), but call it what you will, Gingrich believes his time is now.
Back in early 2009, right around the time that Barack Obama was sworn in as president and staggered Republicans were casting about for direction, I asked John Podesta, President Clinton's last chief of staff and a highly regarded Democratic strategist, who would emerge to fill the vacuum of leadership in the Republican Party. Without hesitation, Podesta said he could answer that in two words: Newt Gingrich. No other Republican, he said, had Newt's ability to seize an opening and frame an argument in ways that people could understand.
A couple of months later I wrote an article for this magazine about Newt's ascendance, again, within his party. It was during those sprawling conversations that Gingrich, already mulling a presidential run, talked at length about the theories of Arnold Toynbee, the British political scientist who wrote ''A Study of History.'' In particular, Gingrich was taken by the Toynbeean concept of ''departure and return,'' the notion of great leaders leaving or being cast out of their realms, only to roar back triumphantly when the historical moment summoned them. Winston Churchill, Charles de Gaulle, Ronald Reagan -- all are idols to Gingrich, men who were humiliated or exiled and then returned as heroes. (Reagan never withdrew from public life quite like the other two, but as Gingrich sees it, Reagan's career seemed all but over after he didn't win the nomination in 1976.) In his years after resigning the speakership in 1998, Gingrich came to believe that he, too, was gathering strength for a return. ''I've had the time to actually think about what you would do if you wanted to profoundly reset the country,'' Gingrich told me in Iowa.
There is an unmistakable theme of departure and return in his campaign as well, because just about everyone had written him off as irrelevant by Labor Day. Gingrich sounds rueful when he thinks back to the pounding he took during his first week as a candidate, when he got into trouble with conservatives for criticizing the entitlement-reform plan offered by his friend Paul Ryan. ''It was the excuse to go after me,'' he told me. ''So everybody said, 'Oh, good, he's bleeding, let's see if we can't kill him.' And that's what was the real revelation to me, is that people I really thought were personal friends all cheerfully engaged in the lynching. And a lot of them of course now have a vested interest in my not winning, because of how silly they'll all look.''
Gingrich says now, in what may be a characteristic bit of revisionist history, that it was clear early on that he needed to break free of his highly paid and conventional consultants, and that he and his wife, Callista, actually took their much-maligned Greek vacation last June -- a pleasure trip in the middle of what was supposed to be his ramp-up as a candidate -- in order to provoke a confrontation with the campaign's leadership. (Gingrich later added that he really needed to see the Greek fiscal crisis up close.) If so, it worked, because the entire senior team quit en masse when he got back. Thus cast out into the campaign wilderness, Gingrich persevered through the summer and early fall, despite the mockery of those who considered it a sad final act. A few times, he now admits, he considered quitting.
''The months of June and July were the hardest in my career,'' he told me. ''You had people you thought you knew and you liked, at places like Fox News, asserting enthusiastically that you were dead. Not sadly -- enthusiastically, happily.'' He sipped his coffee but looked as if it tasted bitter. ''One of the things that actually saved us,'' Gingrich told me, ''in addition to Callista's stubbornness, was Ellis the elephant.''
I checked to make sure I heard this right. Ellis the elephant is the main character in Callista's new children's book, ''Sweet Land of Liberty,'' a New York Times best seller. In what way had a fictional elephant salvaged his presidential campaign?
''Happy, positive,'' Gingrich replied, searching for the right words. ''Interesting. Creative. It gave you an oasis psychologically. Literally, Ellis was sort of a ray of light.''
Why Gingrich's campaign rebounded among voters, like so much else about this pre-election year, is a puzzle. The campaign has little organization, nor is there any one discernible message or facile idea to which voters might attach themselves, like Herman Cain's ''9-9-9'' tax plan. (True to form, Gingrich has unveiled a lengthy 21st-century Contract With America, which links to a bunch of denser campaign materials, including a 54-page paper on the constitutional limits of judicial authority.) The only plausible explanation lies in a series of impressive debate performances, in which a confident Gingrich remained statesmanlike toward his rivals while simultaneously showering Obama (and the debate moderators) with the kind of withering contempt at which he is masterful.
Of course, if mere contempt for the establishment were the thing Republican voters were craving, they wouldn't have needed Gingrich to provide it. Bachmann and Perry and Santorum are all pretty solid in that department. What Gingrich provides, and what his liberal critics have always found insanely maddening about him, is a reputation for intellectual depth. Among the candidates, he alone combines contempt with credibility, not just giving voice to conservative fury but also making it sound like a legitimate basis for governing.
The sudden surge of the Gingrich campaign, from nowhere to somewhere in a matter of weeks, has exposed the weaknesses of an underfinanced and underorganized operation. The well-attended Gingrich events I saw in Iowa -- a meet-and-greet with Hy-Vee supermarket shoppers, a ''town hall meeting'' with no chairs -- had a thrown-together and awkward quality. There was no music or introductory speeches. Often Gingrich entered the room to silence or scattered applause, as if dropping in unannounced. (''Well, that went pretty well, I thought,'' Gingrich remarked to an aide after one such event.)
All of which has surely reinforced some lingering doubts about a man whose discipline and organizational skills have always been in question. Social conservatives, or at least a significant number of them, may eye Gingrich warily because of his messy divorces, but Republican insiders worry more about his reliability as a candidate. Gingrich's rhetoric is sprinkled with the usual Newtian ideas, half brilliant and half wacky, or just plain weird; he says, for instance, that he would force Obama to debate him seven times, for three hours each and without a moderator, by following him everywhere he travels until he relents.
Gingrich's esoteric sense of humor sometimes comes through at odd moments, like the one I saw during an appearance at an apparel manufacturer in Hiawatha, where a voter asked Gingrich how he planned to address the Federal Reserve. ''How would I address the Federal Reserve?'' he repeated. ''Well, let's see. 'Sir.' 'Ma'am.' '' He waited a beat. ''There are lots of ways to address the Federal Reserve.'' Among Republicans, there's never been much doubt that Gingrich has a serious intellect, but there's plenty of debate about whether he is a serious politician, and thus some fear about his electability should he actually become the nominee.
Gingrich's main opponents, meanwhile, have been relentlessly reminding voters of his ties to the health care industry and to Freddie Mac, along with his appearance in an ad with Nancy Pelosi to call attention to climate change. Perhaps the most arresting negative ad came from a group calling itself Iowans for Christian Leaders in Government; the spot pummeled Gingrich for refusing to purge the party of candidates who support partial-birth abortions, while viewers watched a fetus rotating in the womb and listened to a song called ''No Room for the Baby Lord Jesus.''
In contrast, not only has Gingrich spent far less on TV spots than his rivals have spent on attacking him, but the ads he has run -- including a Merry Christmas message from him and Callista -- have been so gauzy and positive that they could have run on Nick Jr. and been mistaken for programming.
Gingrich, of course, doesn't have the resources/ to fight back in kind or to defend himself in all the primary states that are fast approaching, even if he wanted to -- and he says he doesn't, preferring to run a Reagan-like positive campaign. There's a considerable oddity here, because a lot of lawmakers in both parties will tell you that Speaker Gingrich played as significant a role as anyone in making politics more personal and vicious. Be that as it may, Gingrich's play now is to convince voters that the attacks are a manifestation of a political status quo they revile.
''When you walk into the room, you have a choice,'' Gingrich told me, explaining his message. ''You can vote for politics as usual, negativism as usual, consultants as usual, lies as usual. And that's your prerogative. And if you do, you can look in the mirror and you'll know who gave America more of what's made us sick.''
On the Tuesday before Christmas, at the Al-jon heavy machinery plant in Ottumwa, a man asked Gingrich to defend himself against yet another ad, this one claiming that he was a ''globalist.'' (Among Republican primary voters, this is only slightly less incendiary than being called a terrorist.) Gingrich appeared startled, although I doubted he was. ''I think these guys hire consult/ants who sit around and get drunk and write stupid ads,'' he said. ''I am just so fed up with this stuff.''
A few minutes later, he marched into a roomful of reporters and demanded that Romney renounce the ads his Super-PAC friends were running. Gingrich was at his cutting and didactic best. When he said that his rivals needed to love America enough to stop tearing down other Republicans and helping Obama, a reporter asked him whether it wasn't a bit negative to suggest that other candidates didn't love their country. ''I didn't say they didn't love America,'' he snapped. ''I said they didn't love America enough. I'm sure they love America some.''
After Gingrich was finished, and after he met with about 20 local business leaders, he and I and a few aides sat down at a conference table outside the plant manager's office. A glass wall overlooked the factory floor, where below we could see two of the company's prized products: a blue machine that recycled scrap metal and an orange one that turned cars into crushed cubes. Gingrich was clearly energized. ''I'm very interested to see what the impact is,'' he said of the remarks he just made. Callista came in bearing a tray of cookies, which she put on the table. ''Ho, ho, ho!'' Gingrich exclaimed.
As he smiled and ate one with M&M's, I reminded him that a month or so earlier, he himself wondered whether he was a top-tier candidate to stay, or merely the latest fad. The polls that showed him plummeting couldn't be encouraging.
''They're not particularly discouraging,'' Gingrich said. ''I think it's going to take another month of shakeout to see. Obviously unanswered nastiness has an effect. I clearly have eroded here much more significantly.''
Gingrich's strategy is clear enough. He wants to be the last guy standing against Romney after the first few contests -- something that could be achieved just by finishing strongly enough in the early states to garner some attention while, one by one, his rivals run out of reasons to stay in the race. Gingrich knows he isn't any social conservative's dream, and maybe the Tea Party types are put off by his personal life or his ties to big business. But he's betting that they like Romney even less and will rally behind him in a two-man race. ''This is the classic fight between the moderate Republicans who try to get to the middle by compromise and the conservative Republicans who try to create a new middle by driving the left away,'' he said.
This seemed as plausible as any other theory of the moment, although the last few days in Iowa had left me somewhat dubious. Several of the voters I met at Gingrich's events seemed to be reluctantly getting their heads around voting for Romney. It wasn't that they appreciated his less-confrontational brand of Republicanism any more than they did six months ago. It was that they had heard out all the other candidates, and they were starting to think that Romney was the only guy who could actually get himself elected.
I asked Gingrich about his electability problem, and he rehearsed for me the arguments he would make to Republican voters -- that at this stage in 1979 Reagan was losing to Jimmy Carter by 30 points (actually, it was more like 25), that ''somebody who believes passionately in something beats somebody who's timid and calculating.'' Then he grew more reflective.
''I only exist because the country is in trouble,'' Gingrich said. ''The question is whether I can in fact help the country work its way out of trouble. If we had 4 percent unemployment and no foreign threat, I couldn't be a candidate. It would be absurd. There are 20 guys you could pick in peaceful, calm and pleasant times who would be adequate as president, none of whom have my liabilities.''
It was an unusual admission from a presidential candidate near the top of national polls, but it was a candid assessment from a man who thinks of himself in the mold of Churchill or Reagan. The way Newt sees it, fate doesn't hinge on his being a perfect man. Only a great one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC OGDEN) (MM19)
PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
PHOTO RESEARCHERS/GETTY IMAGES
PETER MOUNTAIN/UNIVERSAL STUDIOS/PHOTOFEST
JOE MARQUETTE /ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM21) CHART: 8 THINGS NEWT LIKES
 DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BRETT TABOLT) (MM21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



53 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: The Distorted View from Capitol Hill

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Living in Washington changes the way politicians see the problems they are supposed to help solve. 

 BODY:
Last week, both The Washington Post and The Times published illuminating stories on the growing affluence of members of Congress. Both stories - Peter Whoriskey's in the Post and Eric Lichtblau's in the Times - demonstrate how the economic fortunes of those elected to Congress have diverged radically from those of the men and women they represent.
For members of Congress, Lichtblau wrote, median net worth "is $913,000 and climbing" while for families in the country at large, it's "$100,000 and has dropped significantly since 2004."
The articles demonstrate one of the crucial differences that separate federal elected officials from the rest of America. Members of the House and Senate are treated with inflated deference throughout their working days on Capitol Hill. They have their own police force, a research service, and a cast of thousands of subordinates and special services including doorkeepers, committee aides, private restaurants, free mailing privileges, television studios, airport parking without charge and more.
Each member of the House can hire a personal staff of 18 full-time and four part-time workers, all of whom devote their entire working lives to their bosses. Each representative controls his or her own annual budget, ranging from $1.4 million to $1.7 million depending on the distance from Washington that the member needs to travel.
Senators' personal staffs range from 26 to 60 depending on the size of their state. Each senator controls an office budget that runs from $2,960,726 for those representing Delaware to $4,685,279 for each of the two senators from California.
There are, all together, a total of 6,804 House employees and an estimated 7,000 Senate staffers, all of whom are there to pay assiduous attention to the wishes of members. Unlike the average worker who now faces hard times if laid off, a member who loses re-election (or voluntarily retires) is virtually certain to have the option of a job paying in the $1 million-plus range in Washington's influence-peddling industry.
In addition to the many benefits flowing to Congress, there is another factor distorting members' view of the country at large that gets very little attention: Washington itself.
Representatives and senators work, and in many cases live, in a city that does not reflect the makeup of the country. Instead, the city magnifies and exaggerates racial polarization.
The poor in the District of Columbia are overwhelmingly black. The city's white population has a 6 percent poverty rate, lower than the white rate in every state, according to data compiled by the Kaiser Family Foundation. The national average is 13 percent, and the closest competitors are Connecticut and New Jersey, each of which has an 8 percent white poverty rate. The Census Bureau defines poverty for a family of four as an income of $22,314 or less.
While the scope of poverty in Washington is well documented, another recent story in the Washington Post provided some insight into just how insulated the world of the city's well-to-do has become. Reporter J. Freedom du Lac spent the day at a wine store in the city's prosperous, virtually all-white Cleveland Park neighborhood, not long before New Year's Eve. The store's clientele includes Capitol Hill staffers, political operatives, political appointees, even the odd Supreme Court justice.
Hanging out in the store, du Lac writes, opened up "a window not only into the way the city celebrates, but also into its high-flying wealth. Washington boasts some of the country's richest neighborhoods and most affluent households, many of which thrived during the economic downturn." The store's warehouse manager was amazed when "this guy picked up like six cases, for $3,600. That's a mortgage right there." Another employee told du Lac, "There's big tickets, all day, every day - people spending $1,100 on one bottle. That was unheard of to me, unbelievable. But it's common. This place attracts people with ."
Black residents of Washington have a poverty rate of 27 percent, very close to the national average of 27.4 percent. Since the population of the city is 50.7 percent black, this translates to an estimated 83,590 blacks in poverty in the city compared to 12,560 whites in poverty in the area, a black to white ratio of 6.7 to 1. In essence, for every poor white in the city there are nearly seven African-Americans living beneath the poverty line.
In the entire United States, where blacks make up 12.6 percent of the population, the ratio is reversed. There were 19.5 million non-Hispanic whites under the poverty line and 10.9 million blacks, a black to white ratio of 1 to 1.8. In other words, in the entire country, for every poor black there are nearly two whites living under the poverty line. Nationally, according to the most recent census data, the 2010 poverty rate for non-Hispanic whites was 9.9 percent and for blacks 27.4 percent,
Members of Congress are attuned to the economic conditions in their home districts and states, but living and working in Washington for much, if not most, of their time encourages the view that poverty is a black problem.
The overwhelming importance of race in defining poverty in Washington is also true of unemployment and crime.
The 2010 inmate population in the District of Columbia, according to the Department of Corrections, was 88 percent black, 6 percent Hispanic and 2 percent white. In contrast, the national state and federal prison population in 2010 was 37.7 percent black, 32.0 percent white and 22.2 percent Hispanic
In the case of unemployment in Washington, joblessness is heavily concentrated among blacks. A local think tank, the DC Fiscal Policy Institute, found that from 2007 to September, 2011, the unemployment rate for blacks in the city doubled, going from 10 percent to 20.6 percent.
Hispanic unemployment declined from 9.6 percent in 2007 to 7.9 percent in September 2011. Joblessness among whites increased, but from a minuscule starting point of 1.9 percent in 2007 to 3.7 percent in September.
The figures for the nation as a whole in September 2011 were also different: black unemployment nationally was 16 percent, white unemployment was at 8 percent, and Hispanic joblessness was at 11.3 percent.
All these factors contribute to the effective racialization of inequality in the nation's capital. It does so at a time when rising inequality is an issue Democrats and liberal advocacy groups are trying to emphasize during the upcoming election campaign.
Nationally, as the world now knows, rising inequality has been driven by the huge income gains among the top 1 percent, and, even more so, for the top 0.1 percent.
For the average wage earner, income has declined in recent years. Median income for all households, adjusted for inflation, fell 6.4 percent from 2007 ($52,823) to 2010 ($49,445), according to the census. For white households, the drop, 5.4 percent, $57,752 to $54,620, has been less severe than the 10.1 percent decline for black households, $35,665 to $32,068 and the 7.2 percent decline for Hispanic households, $40,673 to $37,759.
In terms of wealth and assets, the recent deterioration nationally, driven by the economic collapse, has been most severe among blacks and Hispanics, although whites have certainly not been exempt.
From 2005 to 2009, the median net worth of black households fell by a brutal 53 percent, from an already low figure of $12,124 to $5,677, according to the Pew Research Center. Median Hispanic household net worth fell even more, 66 percent, from $18,359 to $6,325. White households experienced a more modest but still painful 16 percent drop, from $134,992 to $113,149.
In Washington, inequality is driven almost entirely by the differences between the wages paid to whites and blacks. In 2010, whites earned $3.08 for every $1 earned by blacks. The black-white income difference is higher in the city than it is in any of the 11 surrounding counties in Virginia and Maryland. Overall, in the entire region, whites earn an average of $1.80 for every dollar earned by blacks.
The result is that the capital of the United States has a higher level of inequality than any state in the nation. Among the nation's cities, it has the third-highest level of inequality, behind Atlanta and New Orleans, according to three different measures used by the census.
The unrepresentative character of the city serves to reinforce conservative stereotypes: That unemployment and poverty are essentially black problems, that violent crime is committed mainly by African-Americans, and that any spending to relieve these problems or any other domestic trouble will amount to a transfer of income from whites to blacks.
To top off the corrupting and warping effects of the forces pressing on House members and senators in Washington, their sense of self-importance is magnified by the power of Congress over the local government.
Congress, in one of the most undemocratic processes in the nation, can veto legislation passed by the City Council and signed into law by the mayor; all city judges must be approved by Congress; and Congress can impose laws on the city. And of course Washington residents do not have voting representation in either the House or the Senate.
This is not just a theoretical issue. At various times since 1988, for example, Congress has enacted temporary bans against the use of locally raised taxes or fees to finance abortions in the city, and most recently, on May 4, the House voted 251-175, with all 235 Republicans present voting yes, to make the ban permanent.
Congress has constitutional authority to exercise these powers, but it would be far less likely to do so if the city's majority population was white rather than black. If power corrupts, in America race often leads to the corrupt exercise of power and to the denial of political autonomy.
The distortion of economic and racial reality for members of Congress living and working in Washington contributes to their tendency to view the consequences of budget cuts and austerity measures as affecting primarily individuals and families with whom they believe they have little in common. They often see or choose to see these people as separate and apart from both themselves and from the mainstream of the United States.

        
Whom Do You Trust?
        
Let's Not Talk About Inequality
        
Contrarian Common Sense
        
Other Stops: Wide Open Spaces
        
Other Stops: Sarah Palin, We Hardly Knew Ye

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); CENSUS (85%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%); POVERTY RATES (83%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); ETHNICITY (63%) Congress; inequality; Washington; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Race and Ethnicity; Census Bureau; House of Representatives; Senate; Washington (DC)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau; House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



54 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Newswallah: Long Reads Edition

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: Top magazine and long-form articles this week. 

 BODY:
Joe Sacco, the well-known American cartoonist and journalist, uses his "comic journalism" lens on a rural district of Uttar Pradesh, India's largest and one of its poorest states. magazine publishes a long piece by him in its latest issue, which also includes a long profile of Imran Khan, the Pakistani cricketer turned politician. Mr. Sacco and an Indian journalist who assisted him, Piyush Srivastava, travel to the district Kushinagar near the border between Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to meet with poor and lower caste families.
In its special end of the year issue, looks at what the East India Company may tell us about today's state-owned or state-backed firms from countries like China, Brazil and Mexico. While most of today's politically connected companies do not have standing armies as East India did, the piece argues there are many similarities between the two, chiefly that they "serve two masters, keeping one eye on their share price and the other on their political patrons."
 magazine devotes its first issue of 2012 to the cuisines of India. The lead essay by Pushpesh Pant, who wrote "India Cook Book" and "Gourmet Journeys in India," celebrates the fact that regional foods of the country have not been completely homogenized. The issue covers lots of ground from Kerala fish curries to the similarities and differences between food from Bengal and Orissa.
 magazine has a flattering profile of Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, the founder of India's leading biotech firm Biocon. The piece asks the question "Can one self-made woman reform health care for India, and the world?" It cites her company's work on diseases that are most prevalent in developing countries like India, and also her philanthropic work to bring health care to the poor. (Subscription required)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); POLITICS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (51%); PHILANTHROPY (50%) Sacco, Joe; Politics and Government; Economist, The; New Yorker; Uttar Pradesh State (India)

COMPANY: BIOCON LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Economist, The; New Yorker

TICKER: BIOCON (NSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: Sacco, Joe

GEOGRAPHIC: UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (90%); EAST INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (58%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); ORISSA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%) Uttar Pradesh State (India)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



55 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Unboxed Extra: I.B.M. and America's Job Challenge

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: I.B.M. is a corporate pioneer in globalization, but the company's success has not meant more jobs in the United States. Its experience holds lessons for the American economy, corporations and workers. "You can't be in the commodity space, says Sam Palmisano, the departing I.B.M. chief executive. "You need to have the advanced skills that the future requires." 

 BODY:
I.B.M.'s success in recent years is clear from the numbers - an upward ascent in profits, profit margins, stock-market value and even research and development spending.
But there is one number I.B.M. stopped disclosing a few years ago: the company's employment in the United States. 
The last time I.B.M. broke out its American payroll numbers was in 2008, for the previous five years. From 2003 through 2007, the company's worldwide employment grew by 21 percent to 386,558, while the head count in the United States declined 11 percent to 120,589. 
Data submitted as part of Congressional testimony indicated the downward trend in American employment continued, at least through 2009. I.B.M. still reports its global payroll, which increased to 426,750 in 2010.
I.B.M., undoubtedly, stopped disclosing its American employment because the trend was an invitation to criticism. But the decision, while understandable, was a shame, I think.
I.B.M., in a way, is a microcosm of the American economy - certainly the high-tech economy. And I.B.M.'s decisions on what kind of jobs stay in the United States and what jobs go abroad are a case study of a company at the forefront of globalization. Its experience may well hold lessons for the American economy, companies and workers.
Take one example. I.B.M. has hugely increased its employment in India in the last several years. Some estimates place I.B.M.'s Indian work force at more than 100,000. That would probably place it on a par with I.B.M.'s employment in the United States.
I.B.M. notes that India is a fast-growing market for the company, and that it is a rich source of skilled engineers. But lower labor costs in India, of course, have been a major motivation. 
I.B.M.'s big business services faced the same kind of challenge from Indian outsourcing companies like Tata Consulting, Infosys and Wipro that low-cost computers, based on microprocessor technology, meant for I.B.M.'s mainframe business two decades ago. Then, I.B.M. was slow to respond, and nearly collapsed. The company's worldwide payroll dropped by nearly half, to a low point of 217,000 in the mid-1990s.
Samuel J. Palmisano, who became chief executive in 2002, was determined that the services business would not repeat the mistake of the mainframe business. A big part of I.B.M.'s India strategy was to change the economics of the company's services business on its own terms, before rivals did.
I.B.M. is still probably the largest private employer of technology workers in the United States. But the mix of jobs is very different than it was a decade or so ago. And the company is continually adding some jobs and eliminating others, in the United States and other countries. It spends $400 million to $500 million a year on "work force rebalancing," payments to workers let go. It also spends about $600 million a year on worker education, training and retraining.
I recently asked Mr. Palmisano, who steps down as chief executive at the start of 2012, what is the best advice he can give young people, including his children, who are entering a turbulent, seemingly constantly churning labor market?
"In today's world, you need to view yourself as having some set of deep skills," he replied. "You need a deep set of skills. It can be in the arts. It can be in finance. It can be in engineering. It doesn't matter. If you have deep skills, there is plenty of opportunity."
Mr. Palmisano pointed to the low unemployment rate for college graduates, and the even lower rate for those with advanced degrees, despite the high unemployment rate nationally.
"You can't be in the commodity space - sounds like the I.B.M. strategy, right?" he said. "You need to have the advanced skills that the future requires. You need to move to the future from a skills perspective."
"We do a lot of retraining every year," Mr. Palmisano continued, "and we still find ourselves in the situation where people can't move up the skill ladder. That's a lot of what's going on. They can't get up the skill ladder. So we have to replace them with current skills."
The I.B.M. approach, Mr. Palmisano said, "I think is appropriate and fair. You give them the opportunity to reboot and help them transition. But if they don't do it, then they don't do it. I wish I could say we don't have the problem, but we do like everybody else."

        
Offshore Outsourcing's Next Wave: How High?
        
Wipro's New Strategy: Outsource Locally
        
Cisco's Future Leads to India
        
I.B.M.'s Chief on Corporate Longevity and Leadership
        
I.B.M.: Africa Is the Next Growth Frontier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); OUTSOURCING (76%); CASE STUDIES (72%); OFFSHORING (69%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (60%); MICROPROCESSORS (50%) employment; globalization; IBM; Indian offshore outsourcing; Infosys; Samuel Palmisano; Tata Consulting; Wipro; Palmisano, Samuel J; Enterprise Computing; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; International Business Machines Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation|IBM|NYSE; Jobs; Social

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corporation

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (52%); INFY (NYSE) (52%); INFY (NSE) (52%) International Business Machines Corporation; IBM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (90%) Palmisano, Samuel J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012



56 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: In Iowa, Rick Perry Is Stuck in the Second Tier

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Perhaps no candidate has more on the line on Tuesday than Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. 

 BODY:
Every candidate has a lot on the line in the Iowa caucus on Tuesday, but perhaps none more than Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. 
With a strong finish in the caucuses, Mr. Perry could re-emerge as a top-tier candidate -- perhaps the best-equipped to compete with Mitt Romney, the presumed frontrunner, on a state-by-state basis. With a poor finish, Mr. Perry might face pressure to drop out of the race as Senator Phil Gramm of Texas did in 1996 after a disappointing fifth place finish in the Iowa caucuses.
Mr. Perry has been consistently projected to win about 12 percent of the vote in our polling-based forecasts of the caucuses, without having much sustained movement upward or downward. 
But for those looking for a glimmer of hope in Mr. Perry's numbers, I was able to identify one. Mr. Perry was fairly often named as a second-place choice in a Des Moines Register poll released on Saturday. His campaign may have some hope of converting those second-place votes into first-place votes because it has a large number of precinct leaders, who under Iowa caucus rules are allowed to make a speech in favor of their candidate before the voting takes place.
Still, this is not the situation -- hoping, most likely, for a third-place finish in Iowa that would allow him to continue onto South Carolina -- that a candidate with Mr. Perry's formidable resume would have expected to find himself in.
The internals of the new Des Moines Register poll help to explain why Mr. Perry has struggled to gain traction despite an intensive focus on Iowa in recent weeks and a large advertising budget. The poll asked caucusgoers to identify which candidate they favored in nine categories, ranging from being the most consistent to the most likely to defeat President Obama.
Almost all the candidates had one or another of these factors working in their favor. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, was named the most knowledgeable, for instance, Mr. Romney the most electable, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas the most likely to reduce the size of government. Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Rick Santorum, the former senator of Pennsylvania, rated well on the attribute of relating to ordinary Iowans.
Mr. Perry was the exception; he did not lead the field in any of the nine categories. For all his swagger, in other words, Mr. Perry is failing to stand out from the crowd. Despite spending $4.3 million in advertising, his brand has become poorly differentiated from the other Republican contenders.
This did not seem a likely predicament for Mr. Perry when he launched his campaign in August and delivered a vigorous announcement speech that overshadowed Mrs. Bachmann's victory in the Ames, Iowa, straw poll. 
Mr. Perry seemed to have two clear advantages over the rest of the field: his genuinely strong jobs record in Texas, and his engaged and confrontational style, which seemed to suit the Republican mood and draw a stark contrast to the more cerebral and even-tempered Mr. Romney.
Arguably, the jobs issue is less salient in Iowa, where the unemployment rate is a relatively low 5.7 percent. Still, most Iowans have told pollsters they are more concerned about the economy than social issues.
Mr. Perry has instead moved in the opposite direction. On Dec. 6, his campaign released a much-parodied ad in which he said that "there's something wrong with this country when gays can serve openly in the military but our kids can't openly celebrate Christmas."
The commercial, and a later speech in December when Mr. Perry shifted his position on abortion to say he opposed it even in cases of rape and incest, seemed like blatant attempts to pander to the evangelical community in Iowa. The most recent Public Policy Polling survey in Iowa, however, finds that Mr. Perry receives only 12 percent of the evangelical vote, putting him in sixth place among the Republican candidates. Voters who prioritize social issues may instead prefer candidates like Mr. Santorum and Mrs. Bachmann who have emphasized them all along and who do not speak about them in what can seem like an opportunistic way. 
Mere days ago, indeed, Mr. Perry was roughly tied with Mr. Santorum in the polls, but now Mr. Santorum has zoomed ahead and is a plausible come-from-behind winner of the caucuses.
Mr. Perry's campaign has responded with commercials that rip Mr. Santorum for the earmarks he procured while a senator. His campaign has had less to say, however, about Mitt Romney, the candidate who leads most recent polls and whom Mr. Perry had once seemed to enjoy confronting in debates.
In turning his attention to Mr. Santorum and to socially conservative voters, Mr. Perry may have helped to entrench his status as a second-tier candidate, competing for a fraction of the electorate that can help a candidate to win Iowa but becomes less relevant outside of it. By contrast, Mr. Perry's peak in national polls in September had been associated with a low ebb for Mr. Romney, suggesting that at least some voters were choosing between them as nationally viable front-runners.
Mr. Perry's hope, of course, may have been that candidates like Mr. Santorum and Mrs. Bachmann would remove themselves from the field after Iowa and New Hampshire, at which point he might consolidate the conservative vote. That now looks unlikely in Mr. Santorum's case, however. Meanwhile, Mr. Perry is polling poorly in South Carolina, a state that once figured to be a strength for his campaign.
If Mr. Perry has a strong showing in Iowa, he will have plenty of time to reverse his momentum. (Mr. Perry is planning to bypass New Hampshire regardless of his finish in Iowa, instead going directly to South Carolina.) Otherwise his campaign, which began with a bang, is in danger of dying with a whimper.

        
Romney's Premature Perry Panic
        
You've Just Won the Ames Straw Poll; What Are You Going to Do Next?
        
Handicapping the Republican Field: Part I, the Top Tier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); BUDGETS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) Des Moines Register; poll; Rick Perry; Perry, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Des Moines Register

PERSON: RICK PERRY (97%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); RON PAUL (54%); MICHELE BACHMANN (54%) Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



57 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Austerity Reigns Over Euro Zone As Crisis Deepens

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Melissa Eddy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Europe's leaders braced their nations for a turbulent year, with their beleaguered economies facing a threat on two fronts: widening deficits that force more borrowing but increasing austerity measures that put growth further out of reach.
Saying that Europe was facing its ''harshest test in decades,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany warned on New Year's Eve that ''next year will no doubt be more difficult than 2011'' -- a marked change in tone from a year ago, when she praised Germans for ''mastering the crisis as no other nation.''
Her blunt message was echoed in Italy, France and Greece, the epicenter of the debt crisis, where Prime Minister Lucas Papademos asked for resolve in seeing reforms through, ''so that the sacrifices we have made up to now won't be in vain.''
While the economic picture in the United States has brightened recently with more upbeat employment figures, Europe remains mired in a slump. Most economists are forecasting a recession for 2012, which will heighten the pressure governments and financial institutions across the Continent are seeing. 
Adding to the gloomy outlook is the prospect of a downgrade in France's sterling credit rating, a move that analysts say could happen early in the new year and have wide-ranging consequences on efforts to stabilize Europe's finances.
Despite criticism from many economists, though, most European governments are sticking to austerity plans, rejecting the Keynesian approach of economic stimulus favored by Washington after the financial crisis in 2008, in a bid to show investors they are serious about fiscal discipline.
This cycle was evident on Friday, when Spain surprised observers by announcing a larger-than-expected budget gap for 2011 even as the new conservative government there laid out plans to increase property and income taxes in 2012.
Indeed, even in the country where the crisis began, Greece, the cycle of spending cuts, tax increases and contraction has not resulted in a course correction, and the same path now lies in store for much larger economies like those of Italy and Spain.
''Every government in Europe with the exception of Germany is bending over backwards to prove to the market that they won't hesitate to do what it takes,'' said Charles Wyplosz, a professor of economics at the Graduate Institute of Geneva. ''We're going straight into a wall with this kind of policy. It's sheer madness.''
Rather than the austerity measures now being imposed, Mr. Wyplosz said he would like to see governments halt the recent tax increases and spending reductions, and instead cut consumption taxes in a bid to encourage consumer spending. More belt-tightening, he said, increases the likelihood that Europe will see a ''lost decade'' of economic torpor like Japan faced in the 1990s.
In fact, economists and strategists on both sides of the Atlantic have been steadily ratcheting down their growth expectations for 2012.
''Europe is likely to have a meaningful recession in 2012,'' said Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief equity strategist. While Mr. Levkovich does not see that as a significant threat to the bottom line of most American businesses -- he estimates that Europe accounts for about 8.5 percent of sales for the typical company in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- the psychological effects on global markets will be magnified if political opposition to austerity increases.
''Powerful street protests could bring it back to the front pages,'' he said. ''We've seen episodic crises in Europe over the past two years. It's a recurring event.'' He expects Europe to remain a key worry for investors worldwide in 2012.
Neville Hill, head of European economics at Credit Suisse, expects gross domestic product in the euro zone to shrink by 0.5 percent in 2012, with the worst of the pain being felt in the first quarter. At the same time, borrowing needs will remain elevated, with Italy and Spain planning to raise more than 100 billion euros in the first quarter alone.
''We shouldn't underestimate the scale of the challenge the euro zone faces in early 2012,'' Mr. Hill said. ''Italian and Spanish sovereign borrowers are at the foot of the mountain, rather than the top. The first quarter is a crunch point.''
The Continent's economic outlook will take center stage on Jan. 9, when Mrs. Merkel and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will discuss a new fiscal treaty intended to impose stringent budget requirements on European Union nations. Then on Jan. 30, European Union leaders will gather in Brussels to discuss ways to spur growth.
There are some bright spots as Europe enters 2012. The recent drop of the euro currency against foreign rivals like the yen and the dollar makes European exports more competitive -- a critical advantage for Germany, Europe's largest exporter and its largest economy. German unemployment now stands at 5.5 percent, the lowest since German reunification.
About 15 percent of the euro zone's gross domestic product comes from German consumer spending, more than the contribution of Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland combined, according to Mr. Hill.
The first test for the Continent will come this Thursday, when France is expected to raise as much as 8 billion euros. On Jan. 12, Spain plans to auction 3 billion euros worth of euro debt, followed by Italy the next day with 9 billion euros. Along with governments tapping the market, European banks are also expected to keep borrowing heavily as loans come due.
In the first quarter of 2012, about 215 billion euros worth of euro zone bank debt must be rolled over, according to Julian Callow, chief European economist at Barclays.
Over all, Mr. Callow said, ''the big picture is one of very restricted visibility. The choice is whether you get a mild or more severe recession.''
Despite a move by the European Central Bank on Dec. 21 to provide 489 billion euros in cheap, long-term credit to European banks, the central bank remains reluctant to take more aggressive steps to become the lender of the last resort as the Federal Reserve did in the wake of the financial crisis in the United States in 2008.
In particular, the European bank has remained steadfast in its opposition to buying up sovereign debt outright, for fear of encouraging a return to the kind of deficit spending that got countries like Greece -- which continues to rely on bailout money -- into trouble in the first place. But the bank's move to inject liquidity on Dec. 21 was seen as a kind of backdoor way of supporting government bonds, since it is likely that a substantial portion of the money the banks borrowed was quickly parked in sovereign bonds.
Rates have fallen since then, especially on short-term notes. At an auction Wednesday of Italian six-month bills, the yield fell to 3.25 percent from a record 6.5 percent yield a month earlier. But plenty of caution remains -- a sale by Italy Thursday of longer-term debt, including 10-year bonds, managed to raise only 7 billion euros instead of the 8.5 billion euros that had been forecast.
''Europe is going about this the hard way,'' Mr. Callow added. ''It's not really using the central bank to alleviate these pressures in a dominant way.''
In addition, with governments in Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland planning more austerity measures, Mr. Callow said, ''this is likely to fuel growing political and social tension. The markets will be closely watching the level of domestic support.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Athens, homeless people have a New Year's Day meal. Prime Minister Lucas Papademos has warned of a ''very difficult year.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETROS GIANNAKOURIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy, top, and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. They and other European leaders underscored in New Year's messages that it would be a trying year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY QUIRINALE ITALIAN PRESIDENCY, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 NICOLAS BOUVY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX INCREASES (85%); TAX LAW (85%); EURO CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); SALES TAX (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); CONSERVATISM (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (68%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%); GIORGIO NAPOLITANO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (99%); ITALY (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



58 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER In this alcohol-fueled episode, above, which starts the Monday night comedy lineup's winter premiere, Marshall (Jason Segel) visits his father's grave to carry on their tailgating tradition. Barney (Neil Patrick Harris) and Ted (Josh Radnor) open a bar called Puzzles, and Robin (Cobie Smulders) must go on the air for an inebriated news anchor. In ''2 Broke Girls,'' at 8:30, Caroline (Beth Behrs) becomes addicted to extreme couponing and stumbles upon the secret ingredient in the cupcakes made by Max (Kat Dennings). In ''Two and a Half Men,'' at 9, Walden (Ashton Kutcher) works to enlist Alan (Jon Cryer) as an ally when his ex-wife (Judy Greer) and mother (Mimi Rogers) try to take over his company. And in ''Mike & Molly,'' at 9:30, Carl (Reno Wilson) confronts his fear of commitment when Christina (Holly Robinson Peete) wants to get more serious. 
1 P.M. (HGTV) HGTV DREAM HOME 2012 Monica Pedersen tours this year's giveaway home, a rustic contemporary ranch house near Park City, Utah, featuring a stone-clad great room with vaulted ceiling; a kitchen overlooking the Provo River and the mountains beyond; a master bedroom with sitting room, porch and spalike bathroom; and a hot-tub deck. The prize package also includes a sport-utility vehicle, $500,000 and every furnishing in the house. Viewers can register to win at HGTV.com and FrontDoor.com.
8 P.M. (13, 49) ANTIQUES ROADSHOW The series opens its 16th season in Tulsa, Okla., where artifacts include a signed note from Mother Teresa to a woodcarver who sent her a cane during her last years, an 1894 Winchester rifle that may have been used in Buffalo Bill's Wild West show and a collection of late-17th- or early 18th-century libation cups, above, made from Chinese rhinoceros horn that drew a record estimate of $1 million to $1.5 million.
8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELOR In the finale of last season's ''Bachelorette'' Ashley Hebert turned down Ben Flajnik's proposal. This season Mr. Flajnik, a 29-year-old winemaker from Sonoma, Calif. -- his hobbies include crab fishing; playing the piano; and spending time with Scotch, his Jack Russell terrier -- looks for love from among 25 women.
8 P.M. (Sundance) THE MORTIFIED SESSIONS Cheryl Hines reveals her awkward high school dating strategies, and Margaret Cho talks about growing up an outcast in this series in which celebrities analyze the personal artifacts and anecdotes that helped shape them.
9 P.M. (A&E) HOARDERS Season 6 begins with a visit to a condemned home whose owner has been given 30 days to clean it or lose it. The train wreck continues in the 12th-season premiere of ''Intervention,'' at 10, focusing on a 21-year-old addict, and ''Extreme Clutter,'' which moves to a new time slot at 10 on OWN.
10 P.M. (Lifetime) A PERFECT MURDER (1998) Steven Taylor (Michael Douglas), a reptilian Wall Street bond salesman about to lose his shirt, plots to knock off his wife, Emily (Gwyneth Paltrow, left), a United Nations translator, and inherit her fortune in this update of Frederick Knott's play (and Alfred Hitchcock's film) ''Dial M For Murder.'' Viggo Mortensen plays Emily's lover, a handsome painter, whom Steven offers $500,000 to do the dastardly deed, or be exposed for the con man and gigolo he really is. ''Money, money, money,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times about this film from Andrew Davis. ''The creepiest aspect of 'A Perfect Murder' is that there really is no contest between love and money. The movie is right in tune with the icy Darwinian mood fostered by the booming late-'90s economy.''
10 P.M. (CBS) HAWAII FIVE-0 Steve (Alex O'Loughlin) and the team try to figure out who would arrange a professional hit on a teenage girl.
10 P.M. (NBC) ROCK CENTER WITH BRIAN WILLIAMS Harry Smith examines the booming real-estate market in farmland, and the comedians Fred Armisen and Darrell Hammond discuss the art of laughter. Also, a look at how all that confetti in Times Square is cleaned up on New Year's Day.
10 P.M. (ABC) CELEBRITY WIFE SWAP Tracey Gold of the 1980s sitcom ''Growing Pains'' and Carnie Wilson of the pop group Wilson Phillips trade lives for 10 days. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC McCANDLESS/FOX
 PBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (68%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (68%); DOGS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVO, UT, USA (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); TULSA, OK, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); UTAH, USA (74%); OKLAHOMA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



59 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: How Iraq Can Define Its Destiny

BYLINE: By ALI A. ALLAWI. 
Ali A. Allawi served as Iraq's minister of trade, defense and finance in succession between 2003 and 2006. He is the author of ''The Occupation of Iraq: Winning the War, Losing the Peace.''

 BODY:
Baghdad
THE Iraq the United States left behind last month is dramatically different from the country it invaded in 2003. Gone are the comforting simplicities of the ''war on terror'' and democracy building. The geopolitical context that America has bequeathed to Iraq is now defined by five critical challenges.
First, Iraq is at the center of the American-Iranian confrontation; it is the only place where the American military has faced off directly against Iranian-backed militias. 
Second, it stands in the middle of the conflict between Iran and Saudi Arabia for regional supremacy. The Saudi royals oppose the current Iranian government but not necessarily the Iranian system itself; they might happily co-exist with a different Iranian leadership, as they did during the 1990s.
Third, as Turkey reasserts itself in the Middle East, both to counter Iran and to promote its own vision of modernizing Islamism, Iraq is in the middle once again. Turkey is a patron to the large Sunni-dominated Iraqiya parliamentary bloc and the biggest source of investment in the Iraqi Kurdistan region. And it is intimately involved in the affairs of the Kurdistan Regional Government, the K.R.G., in order to keep close tabs on Turkey's own Kurdish separatist movement, which is based there.
Fourth, Iraqi Kurdistan is thriving, and will most likely drift toward some form of de facto independence. It is already nearly there. The spectacle of Iraq's fugitive vice president, Tariq al-Hashimi, holed up in Kurdistan beyond the reach of Baghdad, is the clearest proof. The K.R.G.'s success in providing security and services -- in contrast to the central government's dismal record -- is now fueling demands for other autonomous regions throughout Iraq, posing a major challenge to the historically centralized and militarized Iraqi state.
Finally, the current atmosphere in the region reeks of an impending sectarian explosion. Shiite-Sunni conflict led Iraq to the brink of all-out civil war between 2005 and 2007. Today, a reprise of that disaster is quite possible. The triumphalism of Shiite politicians masks anxieties about their community's ascendancy. And the news media, especially Arabic-language satellite channels, are brimming with blatantly offensive sectarian sentiments and contributing to an atmosphere of crisis and impending disaster -- prompted in no small measure by the nefarious work of bigoted and ignorant clerics, often inspired by the intolerant ideology of Wahhabist Islam.
The French historian Fernand Braudel used the term ''longue duree'' to describe how changes in the deep socio-economic and technological structures of civilizations play out over long periods of time. Such shifts are as important in determining the history of societies and nations as major political events and crises.
The Middle East is today experiencing a twofold upheaval of immense proportions: a dramatic acceleration of climate change, water shortages, urban growth, environmental degradation, persistent economic and resource imbalances, and population explosions that coincide with wars, invasions, foreign interventions, civil and religious strife, and mass uprisings. And the longue duree is now exerting its influence on Iraq.
The livelihood of Iraqis is overly dependent on a state that is entirely reliant on a single resource. Agriculture has effectively collapsed; the great river systems of Mesopotamia have shriveled; trade routes based on Iraq's unique geography have vanished; and transport links have atrophied. Merchants and entrepreneurs are merely recyclers of state-owned and state-generated wealth and a previously open and culturally and religiously accommodating society has been replaced by beleaguered communities locked in laagers.
The Arab successor states to the Ottoman Empire have all proved to be unstable, prone to violence and easy targets of foreign intervention and control. Left unchecked, Iraq will remain hostage to the turbulent region in which it finds itself -- and to the price of oil.
This is Iraq's legacy, but it need not be its destiny. Iraq must reimagine the Middle East, creating new economic, security and political structures that weave Middle Eastern countries closer together while peacefully accommodating the region's ethnic and religious diversity.
In the American-Iranian cold war, Iraq must resist being dragged into a confrontation. We have real interests on both sides and can play an important role in mediating and even defusing that conflict.
In the regional struggle between Saudi Arabia and Iran, Iraq must stand on the side of justice and equity by pushing for free and fair elections, representative government, minority rights and the rule of law in places like Bahrain, Syria, Lebanon and Yemen.
Iraq should welcome Turkey's return to the Middle East, not as a neo-Ottoman Empire but as a successful example of a dynamic economy rooted in a democratic state that respects its Islamic heritage.
And it could halt the drift of the K.R.G. toward independence by creating open and fair Iraqi national institutions and civic culture. These are the best guarantors of national unity.
Finally, to prevent a sectarian war in the Middle East, Iraq must resist the rhetoric of extremists and push for an inclusive understanding of Islam that undermines the viciousness of hateful ideologues.
The passivity and indifference of Iraq's leaders to these fundamental challenges contrasts with the ferocity with which they have fought their battles for political power and influence, and the frenzy with which they have sought material gain for themselves and their cronies.
Wise leadership and statesmanship could lead us out of this morass. Failing that, the forces buffeting Iraq and the region may very well lead us to a catastrophe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); TERRORISM (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); POLITICS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (67%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (63%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TURKEY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



60 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: New Questions About Trips Sponsored By Education Publisher

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

 BODY:
In the summer of 2010, Lu Young, the superintendent of schools in Jessamine County, a Lexington, Ky., suburb, took a trip to Australia paid for by the Pearson Foundation, a nonprofit arm of Pearson, the nation's largest educational publisher.
Ten school superintendents went on the trip, which cost Pearson $60,000. While the foundation described the visit as a way ''to exchange ideas on creating schools for the 21st century,'' there was ample time for play. ''Everybody's highlight of Canberra was to get to see the kangaroos,'' Ms. Young said on a video produced by the foundation.
Six months later, in Frankfort, Ky., Ms. Young sat on a committee interviewing executives from three companies bidding to run the state's testing program. While CTB/McGraw-Hill submitted the lowest bid, by $2.5 million, Ms. Young and the other committee members recommended Pearson.
In April, Kentucky's Education Department approved a $57 million contract with Pearson. And then, over the next six months, the commissioner who oversees that department, Terry Holliday, traveled to both China and Brazil on trips underwritten by -- that's right -- the Pearson Foundation. 
Were the trips an effort by the foundation to influence government officials so the company would obtain a lucrative state contract?
A spokeswoman for Dr. Holliday said that the selection ''was based on best value and not simply a low bid,'' and Ms. Young said that the trips and the contract selection were ''completely unrelated.''
''I never had any conversation or discussion with anyone from Pearson about the awarding of the testing contract during this trip or later,'' Ms. Young wrote in an e-mail.
There is a fair chance that Ms. Young has not heard the last word on this.
For several weeks, New York State's attorney general has been investigating similar trips involving two dozen education officials from around the country who traveled to Singapore; London; Helsinki, Finland; China and Rio de Janeiro as guests of the Pearson Foundation. The trips, and the fact that most of these officials come from states that have multimillion contracts with Pearson, were the subject of two of my columns this fall.
Last month, the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, issued subpoenas to the Manhattan offices of the Pearson Foundation and Pearson Education. Mr. Schneiderman is looking into whether the nonprofit, tax-exempt foundation, which is prohibited by state law from undisclosed lobbying, was used to benefit Pearson Education, a profit-making company that publishes standardized tests, curriculums and textbooks, according to people familiar with the inquiry.
Mark Nieker, president of the Pearson Foundation, wrote in an e-mail, ''Our practice is not to comment about the existence of government investigations.'' He added, ''It just is not true that the Foundation's support of conferences attended by education officials has the purpose of helping Pearson corporate to win contracts.''
Pearson has paid for the trips through the Council of Chief State School Officers. The foundation's most recent tax form, from a year ago, lists a $100,000 contribution to the council.
Mr. Nieker wrote that the foundation trips reflect ''a long-term commitment to foster a productive dialogue between education leaders from the United States and some of the world's best-performing and most improving school systems.''
The conferences have also included top executives from the Pearson company, giving them the opportunity for meetings with state commissioners. Mr. Nieker has not responded to several requests to provide names of the Pearson executives who attended, but I was able to identify 12 who went to Finland and nine who were on the trip to Singapore. The only executive at the Australia conference Mr. Nieker would confirm is Kathy Hurley, a vice president for both the company and the foundation.
Marcus S. Owens, a lawyer who was the director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service for a decade, said New York's investigators were likely to look at if representatives from other education companies were invited to the conferences, ''along the lines of how a trade show works.''
''If it's only Pearson, that doesn't have the feel of a real education conference,'' he said. None of the lists of attendees obtained include people from other firms.
Also troubling, Mr. Owens said, was that the foundation left blank the line on its federal tax forms where nonprofits are supposed to list payments to public officials for ''travel or entertainment.''
He sees parallels between the Pearson situation and an investigation by the United States attorney's office in Arizona of the nonprofit organization that runs the Fiesta Bowl. In November, a former chief operating officer for the Fiesta Bowl nonprofit was indicted by a federal grand jury for filing tax returns that failed to list payments to political campaigns and lobbyists.
Mr. Nieker, the Pearson Foundation president, said the situations were not parallel. ''We strongly dispute any valid comparison and question the ability of tax experts you cite to make such a comparison without knowledge of the relevant facts.''
While several commissioners have said they had prior approval for the trips from state ethics officials, oversight appears to have been lax.
Christopher Koch, state superintendent of education in Illinois -- which has $138 million in contracts with Pearson -- went to China, Brazil and Finland with the foundation. The only Pearson compensation he listed on state ethics forms was the cost of the flight to China, $4,271 for business class. Asked why hotels, meals and the other flights were not documented, a spokesman for Dr. Koch, Matt Vanover, said, ''What we're looking at is a litmus test; they just want to make sure he's not traveling first class.''
Richard Steiner, the former New York education commissioner, has said that the entire value of a foundation-sponsored trip he took to London in 2010 was $2,000.
Pearson paid for the Australia trip through the American Association of School Administrators. Mr. Nieker said the superintendents on the trip were selected by the association, not the foundation.
In Montgomery County, Md., the now-retired superintendent, Jerry Weast, approved an unusual contract in June 2010, in which Pearson paid the district $2.5 million to produce curriculum materials that the company would then sell worldwide.
Two months later he was on the plane to Australia.
Dr. Weast, who has come under fire from parents groups, said the curriculum contract was a unique way to generate income for public schools in hard economic times.
Daniel A. Domenech, executive director of the administrators association, said the group had taken its last Pearson trip. ''Given the climate in public education today, we won't go on trips,'' he said.
When told about the attorney general's investigation, Dr. Domenech said: ''I guess that means we better get our records set up. If there's an investigation, I'm sure they'll want to look at them.''
E-mail: oneducation@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven Paine and Patricia Wright, superintendents in West Virginia and Virginia, with Mark Nieker, right, of the Pearson Foundation, in London in June 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEARSON FOUNDATION). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); SUBPOENAS (67%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (86%)

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (86%); PSO (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (86%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (70%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (67%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (58%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); FINLAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



61 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Losing a Chef Who Refined Its Stockyards Palate

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Charlie Trotter, a pioneering chef whose restaurant in this city helped transform American fine dining in the last quarter-century, will close his famed establishment this year.
The announcement, first reported on Sunday in The Chicago Sun-Times, was viewed as a bittersweet if inevitable end for an elegant restaurant. It spawned a more creative way of thinking about food when it opened in 1987 and propelled the careers of numerous up-and-coming chefs. And it kept right on going as elaborate modernist competitors, as well as places that cared less about luxurious surroundings, grew up all around.
When such practices were all but unheard of in America, particularly in the Midwest, Mr. Trotter created a European-style degustation menu, a vegetarian tasting menu and a raw-food tasting menu. He placed a table of diners in the kitchen to watch the process. He pursued local farm products. 
If some saw the decision to close Charlie Trotter's, which is in a townhouse in the Lincoln Park neighborhood on the city's North Side, at the end of August as an acknowledgement that the spotlight had moved on to newer, flashier restaurants, Mr. Trotter said the choice had not been driven by finances in the least. He said business had been ''off'' a bit but largely unharmed by the economic downturn.
Mr. Trotter, who notified his staff members and the patrons of a New Year's Eve event ($295 per person) on Saturday, said he wanted to travel, attend graduate school in philosophy and political theory and, perhaps, eventually return to open a new restaurant.
''I can do this forever, and it's most gratifying,'' Mr. Trotter, 52, said in an interview on Sunday. ''That said, there are so many other things to do in life. Twenty-five years in this line of work is fantastic. It's just time to step back, breathe deeply and do something different.''
Locally and nationally, people in the dining industry said they were surprised or, if not entirely surprised, sentimental about the closing. Acquaintances and former employees described Mr. Trotter as a quirky perfectionist, a constant boundary pusher (using unlikely items like pig ears, in the memory of one admiring former employee) and a sometimes difficult boss. He was also credited, even by his critics, for being a trailblazer whose influences can be tasted and felt in many newer restaurants and someone who helped put Chicago, once known mostly for deep-dish pizza and hot dogs, on the epicurean map.
''In the late '80s and through the '90s, he was on top of the food world,'' said Curtis Duffy, who moved to Chicago more than a decade ago to work for Mr. Trotter and described him as probably his most significant professional influence.
Mr. Duffy, who went on to be the chef at Avenues here and plans to open his own restaurant, Grace, this year, added: ''It's hard to stay on top of something that's evolving. I think he's still on top. He wants to close on top.''
In the 1980s, Mr. Trotter emerged from a sea of fine dining restaurants that were narrowly focused on French-style cooking, said Mitchell Davis, executive vice president of the James Beard Foundation.
''But Charlie helped define a unique American perspective on it, rich with French tradition and also other traditions in the world,'' Mr. Davis said. ''He helped make Chicago a global food town.''
To hear patrons of the restaurant tell it, Mr. Trotter made dinner no longer just dinner, but an event. Servers were known for their scrupulous attention and care. The small plates came and went with careful pairings of wine. Fellow chefs described Mr. Trotter's kitchen as technically perfect.
In more recent years, though, there were setbacks. When the Michelin guide came to Chicago for the first time in late 2010, two edgy restaurants (Alinea and L2O) got the highest ratings, three stars. Mr. Trotter's received two stars. And while the world of television chef shows and buzzy online restaurant promotions blossomed, Mr. Trotter mainly focused on his kitchen -- a place where, even as modernist approaches began flourishing elsewhere, ''when you eat an artichoke, it still looks like an artichoke,'' said the chef Mario Batali, a friend.
In a fast-changing culinary world, rare is the fine dining restaurant that lasts 25 years. ''Almost impossible anymore,'' said Alan Richman, the food and wine critic for GQ magazine. ''I think you'll see fewer and fewer restaurants accomplish that.''
Mr. Trotter said he had first considered closing 10 years ago, then again five years ago. ''It's not just like some overnight thing I'm doing,'' he said. ''I did feel some pangs of sentimentality and nostalgia. On the other hand, full steam ahead.''
Reflecting on a quarter-century in the food world, Mr. Trotter said he had watched the evolution of American cuisine and the evolution of the American eater -- from someone who enjoyed a once-in-a-while night out to the foundation of a ''food-savvy populace'' that dines out constantly.
Responses came fast after word of the closing began spreading on Saturday, Mr. Trotter said. People were already securing reservations for the final eight months of dinners.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After 25 years, Charlie Trotter will close his influential namesake restaurant in late summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); CLOSINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); MEAT FREE DIETS (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



62 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include I.S.M. manufacturing index for December and construction spending for November (Tuesday); Factory orders for November (Wednesday); ADP employment for December, weekly jobless claims and I.S.M. service index for December (Thursday) and unemployment for December (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Monsanto (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, financial markets, government offices and many businesses will be closed in observance of the New Year's holiday. On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve will release the minutes of its December policy meeting. On Wednesday, automakers will release North American vehicle sales for December. On Thursday, retailers will announce same-store sales for December.
OVERSEAS On Thursday, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will speak about the outlook for the economy in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); RETAIL SALES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); SAME STORE SALES (87%); RETAILERS (85%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); AUTOMAKERS (52%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (57%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



63 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Nobody Understands Debt

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In 2011, as in 2010, America was in a technical recovery but continued to suffer from disastrously high unemployment. And through most of 2011, as in 2010, almost all the conversation in Washington was about something else: the allegedly urgent issue of reducing the budget deficit.
This misplaced focus said a lot about our political culture, in particular about how disconnected Congress is from the suffering of ordinary Americans. But it also revealed something else: when people in D.C. talk about deficits and debt, by and large they have no idea what they're talking about -- and the people who talk the most understand the least. 
Perhaps most obviously, the economic ''experts'' on whom much of Congress relies have been repeatedly, utterly wrong about the short-run effects of budget deficits. People who get their economic analysis from the likes of the Heritage Foundation have been waiting ever since President Obama took office for budget deficits to send interest rates soaring. Any day now!
And while they've been waiting, those rates have dropped to historical lows. You might think that this would make politicians question their choice of experts -- that is, you might think that if you didn't know anything about our postmodern, fact-free politics.
But Washington isn't just confused about the short run; it's also confused about the long run. For while debt can be a problem, the way our politicians and pundits think about debt is all wrong, and exaggerates the problem's size.
Deficit-worriers portray a future in which we're impoverished by the need to pay back money we've been borrowing. They see America as being like a family that took out too large a mortgage, and will have a hard time making the monthly payments.
This is, however, a really bad analogy in at least two ways.
First, families have to pay back their debt. Governments don't -- all they need to do is ensure that debt grows more slowly than their tax base. The debt from World War II was never repaid; it just became increasingly irrelevant as the U.S. economy grew, and with it the income subject to taxation.
Second -- and this is the point almost nobody seems to get -- an over-borrowed family owes money to someone else; U.S. debt is, to a large extent, money we owe to ourselves.
This was clearly true of the debt incurred to win World War II. Taxpayers were on the hook for a debt that was significantly bigger, as a percentage of G.D.P., than debt today; but that debt was also owned by taxpayers, such as all the people who bought savings bonds. So the debt didn't make postwar America poorer. In particular, the debt didn't prevent the postwar generation from experiencing the biggest rise in incomes and living standards in our nation's history.
But isn't this time different? Not as much as you think.
It's true that foreigners now hold large claims on the United States, including a fair amount of government debt. But every dollar's worth of foreign claims on America is matched by 89 cents' worth of U.S. claims on foreigners. And because foreigners tend to put their U.S. investments into safe, low-yield assets, America actually earns more from its assets abroad than it pays to foreign investors. If your image is of a nation that's already deep in hock to the Chinese, you've been misinformed. Nor are we heading rapidly in that direction.
Now, the fact that federal debt isn't at all like a mortgage on America's future doesn't mean that the debt is harmless. Taxes must be levied to pay the interest, and you don't have to be a right-wing ideologue to concede that taxes impose some cost on the economy, if nothing else by causing a diversion of resources away from productive activities into tax avoidance and evasion. But these costs are a lot less dramatic than the analogy with an overindebted family might suggest.
And that's why nations with stable, responsible governments -- that is, governments that are willing to impose modestly higher taxes when the situation warrants it -- have historically been able to live with much higher levels of debt than today's conventional wisdom would lead you to believe. Britain, in particular, has had debt exceeding 100 percent of G.D.P. for 81 of the last 170 years. When Keynes was writing about the need to spend your way out of a depression, Britain was deeper in debt than any advanced nation today, with the exception of Japan.
Of course, America, with its rabidly antitax conservative movement, may not have a government that is responsible in this sense. But in that case the fault lies not in our debt, but in ourselves.
So yes, debt matters. But right now, other things matter more. We need more, not less, government spending to get us out of our unemployment trap. And the wrongheaded, ill-informed obsession with debt is standing in the way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); FAMILY (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BONDS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



64 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Is Ordered to Pay $900 Million to Exxon Mobil

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
An international arbitration panel has ruled that Venezuela must pay Exxon Mobil more than $900 million in a long-simmering dispute over the nationalization of Exxon's assets in Venezuela's Orinoco Belt, one of the most coveted oil reserves outside the Middle East. 
Exxon waged a legal battle with Venezuela after President Hugo Chavez in 2007 took control of various big projects controlled by foreign oil companies. The move by Mr. Chavez came after escalating tensions with Exxon that included a raid on the company's offices in Caracas, the Venezuelan capital. The seizing of Exxon's assets opened the way for the nationalization of dozens of other companies' assets in Venezuela.
Patrick McGinn, a spokesman for Exxon, said in a statement that the decision by the International Chamber of Commerce confirmed that Petroleos de Venezuela, the country's national oil company, had a ''contractual liability'' to Exxon. Exxon received the decision on Friday.
Venezuelan officials did not respond to calls on Sunday seeking comment on the decision.
The ruling by the International Court of Arbitration, which is based in Paris, is just one of several important arbitration cases Venezuela is facing over its nationalizations, including a separate case between Exxon and Venezuela that is pending before the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, part of the World Bank.
Venezuela's energy minister, Rafael Ramirez, said last year that Venezuela had calculated that the country could pay as much as $2.5 billion in compensation to Exxon and ConocoPhillips, another big American oil company, as a result of the arbitrations over the oil claims.
Despite Venezuela's legal battles over the 2007 nationalizations, the country's oil industry remains open to substantial foreign investment, in contrast to those of other large oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia and Mexico.
The American oil company Chevron still ranks among Venezuela's largest foreign investors, along with Chinese, Italian and Russian companies.
They are lured by the potential of the Orinoco Belt, an area with heavy oil in southern Venezuela, which the United States Geological Survey said had the largest oil accumulation it ever assessed.
While political relations remain tense between Caracas and Washington, the United States remains the largest buyer of Venezuelan oil. But Venezuela's crude oil exports to the United States have been declining.
Venezuela's oil shipments to China, which have provided Venezuela with billions of dollars of loans, have been steadily climbing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); COP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



65 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Santorum's Challenge: Broaden His Appeal Beyond Evangelical Christians

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
SIOUX CITY, Iowa -- Emboldened by evidence that his sudden burst in the polls was building, Rick Santorum came to this conservative corner of rural Iowa on Sunday to try to cement his status as the anti-Mitt Romney candidate, and he urged his supporters to redouble their efforts as the caucuses approached.
''This is an election that is going to be very close. I'm very appreciative of what I see, that our support is rallying and rising here,'' he told a standing-room-only crowd of about 200 people who packed into a coffee shop downtown to hear him speak. ''But there's two more days. There's a lot of work to be done.'' 
With one of the better organized supporter networks in Iowa, Mr. Santorum has emerged as a top contender to unite the crucial, yet fractured, evangelical Christian vote. But to peel votes away from Mr. Romney, he is seeking to broaden his appeal to conservatives whose primary concerns are the economy and national security. He must convince them that he is an electable and formidable competitor to President Obama.
He implored his supporters on Sunday to employ all means possible -- placing a Santorum yard sign on their lawns, wearing Santorum stickers on their jackets and having heart-to-heart talks with friends -- to help push him over the top.
''This is your chance, heartland of America, to speak out,'' he said. ''We need you to sign up and go to the caucus. Be an advocate for us. Get out there and speak on our behalf.''
Even as a new poll from The Des Moines Register showed he was closing in on Mr. Romney, Mr. Santorum was confronting some stark realities that his underdog campaign cannot ignore. His campaign lacks the resources to fight a drawn-out battle for the nomination. He is already under assault from rivals like Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. And victory in Iowa would be hollow if he were to suddenly flame out in New Hampshire and South Carolina, which will hold their primaries this month.
He has tried to counter the perception that he is just the latest Republican alternative to Mr. Romney to build a large following on a foundation of sand. At campaign rallies over the weekend, he pointed to a sizable campaign operation in New Hampshire, where he has said he will begin advertising on television. ''You go to our office in Bradford, and I guarantee you there are a lot of people there,'' he told a crowd in Indianola on Saturday. And he often mentions his frequent trips to South Carolina, where his campaign believes his message of strong family values and the need for a muscular military presence will resonate.
His fund-raising is on the rise, but at the current levels will not be enough to push back should he become the target of the kind of brutally negative advertising campaigns South Carolina is known for. He has pulled in more than $250,000 online in recent days, exceeding a campaign goal, but a meager amount by the standards of modern campaigns.
Mr. Santorum's stop in Sioux City was his first campaign rally on a busy New Year's Day of campaigning -- both on the stump and in the news media. He appeared on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday morning, gaining the kind of national television exposure that has eluded him for months as he languished at single digits in the polls.
He became emotional at times during his remarks at the Daily Grind, a coffee shop a few blocks from the Missouri River, especially when he spoke of the meaning his campaign had to his family. Criticizing President Obama for ''absolutely un-American activities,'' he said he was running to ensure he left the country in better shape for his children.
''This is the most important election of my life. This is where America's freedom is at stake,'' he said. ''I'm asking you to stand up for your honor.''
His listeners greeted him with a hearty round of applause. And as he made his way through the crowd, stopping to shake hands and sign autographs, he wore a beaming smile on his face.
As Iowa conservatives continued their process of candidate elimination over the weekend, some spoke of being drawn to Mr. Santorum not for his social conservatism -- he is already an admired figure among those who are opposed to abortion rights and same-sex marriage -- but for his stands on fiscal and national security issues. Support from such voters was a sign that those who are wary about voting for Mr. Romney may be breaking for Mr. Santorum.
Mark Leonard, an active Republican and a self-described ''all-around conservative fellow'' who runs an agriculture and commercial loans business in nearby Holstein, said he had only recently decided to support Mr. Santorum. ''I believe he has the deepest understanding of what the president can and should do,'' he said, noting that Mr. Santorum avoided what he considered to be hyperbole and unrealistic campaign promises.
''One candidate says he'd cut $1 trillion from the budget. A president can't do that,'' Mr. Leonard said. ''Another candidate says he'd have a part-time Congress. That's silly. A president can't do that, either. And Santorum doesn't make crazy statements like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Santorum in Sioux City, Iowa, during an early stop in a busy day of campaigning. ''I'm very appreciative of what I see,'' he said. ''But there's two more days. There's a lot of work to be done.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); FAMILY (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



66 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: 'Essential Benefits' and Health Reform

 BODY:
The Obama administration surprised supporters and critics when it decided to let states define the ''essential health benefits'' that must be provided to their citizens under health care reform. The move could lessen opposition in Republican-led states and increase the chances that they will move ahead on building new health insurance exchanges to comply with the reform law. 
The impact on most consumers may be minimal. Even the most fiercely antiregulation states will not be free to approve extremely miserly policies, because they will have to be comparable to popular and fairly comprehensive ''benchmark'' private plans. There are concerns that insurance company lobbyists -- who are even more powerful in many states than in Washington -- will find ways to shape requirements to favor their bottom lines rather than consumers. In the longer run, it would be better to set a national standard. That would also be easier for federal regulators to monitor.
The health care reform law requires private health insurers that sell policies to individuals and small businesses to provide, starting in 2014, a set of ''essential health benefits'' in 10 categories, including hospitalization, ambulatory care, maternity care, prescription drugs and laboratory services. The law also said the benefits should be comparable to those provided under ''a typical employer plan.'' But it left it up to the secretary of health and human services to define what benefits are ''essential'' and what employer plans are ''typical.''
Now Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has passed those decisions to the states, at least for a two-year transition period in 2014 and 2015. The benchmark the states will be required to use could be one of the three largest plans covering small businesses, state employees or federal employees in the state or the largest health maintenance organization serving commercial customers.
The administration contends that a similar benchmarking approach has worked well in the Children's Health Insurance Program. It also believes that differences among the states in demographics, economics, patterns of illness and the way medicine is practiced warrant starting cautiously from current benchmarks.
Federal health officials will need to monitor developments during the transition period to make sure consumers and employers can easily compare the benefit packages offered by private insurers. In the long run, it would seem best to move toward a system in which all Americans enjoy the same benefits with only limited state-by-state adjustments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); BENCHMARKING (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



67 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Overclass vs. Underclass

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Perceptions of social class, and which group poses the larger threat, often drive political allegiance, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The middle class looks nervously up, then down. Which is the greater economic threat, the overclass or the underclass? Perceived answers to this question now shape political allegiances in the United States.
Not that the middle class is sure where its boundaries lie. Much depends on what other labels are offered - such as working class or upper middle or lower middle rather than just plain middle.
But whatever its exact size, the middle class is usually considered more deserving - and more threatened - than those at the extremes. Those on the left argue that the overclass threatens the country's well-being, while those on the right point their fingers at the underclass. President Obama wants to raise taxes on millionaires; Republicans want to cut social programs directed at the poor.

Occupy Wall Street accuses the top 1 percent of greed; Tea Party conservatives accuse welfare recipients of sloth, another deadly sin.
Greed is often personified by vampires, strong, sexy superhumans with mesmerizing powers who suck the life blood from their unwitting victims.
In 2004, The Village Voice published a cover image of George W. Bush sinking his fangs into the neck of a fainting Statue of Liberty, inspiring a similar image on the April 2011 cover of Mother Jones. In the pages of Rolling Stone, the journalist Matt Taibbi famously described the investment bank Goldman Sachs as a "great vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood funnel into anything that smells like money."
Sloth and incompetence are often personified by zombies, the living dead, mumbling, stumbling creatures that gain strength only in numbers. These are less a threat to specific individuals than to civilization as a whole.
Jason Mattera's recent book, "Obama Zombies," asserts that "Barack Obama lobotomized a generation." A local Republican group in Virginia aroused controversy at Halloween by publishing an image of the commander in chief as a zombie with a bullet hole through his skull. One conservative blog post explicitly refers to African-American entitlement zombies.
Government employees are often tagged zombies, and Ron Paul, a Republican presidential candidate, applies the term to those who pay income taxes without complaint.
Maybe the vampire/zombie imagery reveals the impact of psychology on economic perceptions - some people fear most the dominance, some the dependence of others.
Vampires aren't all bad. Some can be redeemed by human love, as in the "Twilight" saga. Others could learn to subsist on synthetic blood rather than emptying their friends. Likewise, zombies can be cured or used to enliven Jane Austen novels.
Still, the horror show on both sides testifies to class anxiety in the face of economic stress. It also illustrates the many ways that economic incentives can go awry. Offer huge rewards to winners of a competition and you will likely elicit greater effort and innovation - up to a point. On the other hand, you will also increase the temptation to collude and cheat.
Offer public assistance to those who can't support themselves, and you will help protect and develop their capabilities - up to a point. On the other hand, you will also increase the temptation to lie and shirk.
No economic system can eliminate both forms of misbehavior, but a good one should surely try to discourage both.
Many people, including me, have decided that the overclass poses the most serious threat today to the middle class in the United States because it markets the assertion that the underclass is the source of all our problems.
What the middle class decides will depend on its assessments of the relative threats of increasingly concentrated wealth at the top versus growing economic desperation at the bottom.
It will also depend on whether the middle class believes it can climb the economic pole. Right now, it appears to sliding down. And its white collars appear to be slightly stained with blood.

        
Welfare Reform Revisited
        
Storming the Capitalist Castle
        
Feminism's Uneven Success
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'? Continued
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); HALLOWEEN (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Income Inequality; lower class; middle class; Nancy Folbre; politics; Poverty; upper middle class; Paul, Ron; United States Economy; Today's Economist

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Paul, Ron

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



68 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: The Latino Opportunity

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: What did you learn in 2011? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Consumers Are Spending
Consumer confidence increases to its highest level in eight months. Gallup reports a 4.1 percent uptick in holiday spending. Porsche sales are up 25 percent. But Sears announces that it's closing a bunch of stores, and consumer and business spending points to slower growth -- a forecast supported by numbers from the advertising industry. But cheer up, this video of the best wins of 2011 will make you feel better!
The Economy: Might as Well Jump
The four-week average of weekly unemployment claims are the lowest since June 2008. The Federal Highway Administration reports that traffic is down from last year. Home prices fall 3.4 percent and some think America is becoming a nation of renters. But pending homes sales are the highest in a year and a half and experts see a recovery in commercial real estate this year. A forecasting firm is predicting a recession in 2012 (but not for the original Van Halen, which just announced a new tour). The United States government received record demand for its bonds in 2011. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved the least since 1970. Steve Strauss of USA Today begins his list of the top trends for small business in 2012. NPR sums up the year in four great charts.
Ideas: The Latino Opportunity 
Justin Kownacki says 10 things changed his life in 2011. Matt Ryan lists five everyday products made possible by NASA. Bad idea: taking 247 animals with you on a plane. Cassie Murdoch reports that grocery stores are not just for ladies anymore. The satellite launching business faces a cloudy future. But an electric car can go more than 300 kilometers. Evangeline Gomez explains why Latino-owned businesses are leading the recovery: "Latino-owned businesses are expected to increase their total revenue contribution to the economy by 8 percent annually over the 10 years from 2005 to 2015. This is more than three times the average growth for all businesses. What does this mean: Latinos will have more economic clout, employ a greater proportion of the population and purchase substantially more in goods and services than they do today."
Your People: Robot Hiring
A company sues a former employee over 17,000 Twitter followers. An employer argues that employees should not be allowed to discuss their pay. A deadline looms for posting employee rights per the National Labor Relations Act. A boom in robot hiring has begun. CareerBuilder says employers are "cautiously optimistic (PDF)" about hiring in 2012, but I'm certain none of my children qualify for this job. A majority of employees are not taking all of their vacation time. Your employees may benefit from these tips on choosing the right health insurance plan. Michael Flatt explains how to give feedback that works: "I quickly learned that the team felt alienated by scattershot criticism and a lack of recognition from the head office. Something had to change. The team and I designed a review system to evaluate each project on a 10-point scale. That transformed the feedback from random critiques to consistent, objective assessments."
Start-Up: How Silicon Valley Was Built
Here are 10 San Francisco start-ups that will shake up the world of food. A new company shows how to profit when a relationship breaks up. Scott McNealy shares his recent start-up experience. Joe McKendrick reports on a few cool start-ups he likes and five reasons to be optimistic about technology innovation. This video explains how a handful of investors built Silicon Valley. Laurie Kulikowski picks the best businesses to enter in 2012.
Marketing: Amazon Plays Guess the Religion
Amazon and Apple get high customer service marks but this little girl is upset with the way toys are marketed. Uzi Shmilovici suggests eight ways to go viral, including: "Embeddable virality. This method works superbly well for content Web sites. The ability to take a piece of content and embed it anywhere on the web, with a link back to the original website. This will put your product in front of countless users." Amazon profiling tries to guess customer religions by gift wrap choices. Mike Thimmesch asks whether QR codes are worth putting on trade show displays. Fourteen experts suggest must-read social media books. Google Plus passes 62 million users. Scott Gerber lists 13 location-based marketing tips for entrepreneurs. Lior Levin offers five reasons live chat has untapped potential for online selling.
Red Tape Update: Five Victories
Paychex lists 12 potential regulatory changes that small businesses should know about. Same-sex spouses lose big on taxes and Santa Clausgets arrested for tax fraud. A report finds that small-business investment in federal contracting is up 21 percent over last year. Kent Hoover says entrepreneurs snagged these five victories from Washington in 2011.
Boss of the Week: Louis CK shows how to earn big bucks in 12 days with a $5 video.
Around the World: Samoa Skips Friday
An investor defends his decision to abandon setting up a start-up fund in Chile: "The Chilean society is less dynamic than Asia or the U.S.; a handful of monopolistic families control the country, and won't move. Worse, these families don't care about anything (the young, the poor ) besides their money. They don't have to: the country's natural resources (copper, etc.) are a disadvantage here, because it means the rich don't need to work hard." A Chilean entrepreneur responds. Cisco and the Moscow Business School introduce an M.B.A. executive course. Japanese small-business sentiment continues to weaken. America is the world's most charitable nation but also the largest jailer of citizens per capita in the world. Brazil is now the world's sixth largest economy. Om Malik explains why Berlin is poised to be Europe's new tech hub. Samoa skips Friday.
Around the Country: Following the Luggage
Small businesses in Kalamazoo, Mich., report improved holiday sales. For the second time in four years, an information technology firm is named NASA's small-business prime contractor of the year (which is almost as impressive as this sixth-grade basketball player in North Carolina). A Colorado Springs company that has been offering clinics for high school football coaches is expanding next month into offering conferences for small businesses on sales, marketing and human resources. Massachusetts gives $2.2 million in loans to life sciences start-ups. See how your luggage travels on Delta Airlines.
Technology: Cyber Insurance
A security think tank gets hacked and insurance against cyberattacks is expected to boom (but Grandpa isn't interested). A marijuana company buys a software firm. Microsoft's Windows phone marketplace hits 50,000 apps but Robert Scoble explains why the Windows Phone 7 hasn't taken off: "So, when a consumer goes into a carrier store to buy a new phone, what is going on in the back of her/his head? Android=safe. iOS/iPhone=safe. Everything else=not safe." Small businesses are expected to buy more tablets in 2012. Tech companies ramp up on intern hiring. Rieva Lesonsky reports on why now is the time to raise your I.T. budget. PC World's Logan G. Harbaugh lists technologies that should be on our company's radar this year. Chandra Steele lists her biggest tech disappointments of 2011. Jeweller Magazine wonders if Apple is introducing an iWatch.
The Week's Bests
Way to Stay in Control. S. Anthony Iannarino wants us to stay in control be flexible: "Great salespeople follow a sales process. They know that there are certain necessary and important outcomes that position them to win, that serve their clients through the buying process, and that allow them to later execute and meet their client's business outcomes. But these salespeople don't follow the process when doing so doesn't work to achieve these outcomes. When the roadmap isn't an accurate representation, they make adjustments."
Way to Find Humor in What You Do. Michael Hess explains why your business doesn't have to be so serious: "Humorless, uptight companies are often paralyzed by politics, stifling hierarchies, defensiveness, fear of failure/consequences, and other dysfunction. A collective sense of humor and the cohesive culture it engenders tends to minimize such toxicity."
Lessons From 2011. A business owner and data analyzer, Chris Merrick, summarizes what he learned in 2011, including: "Anything we can do, our customers can do better. In the early versions of (our product), customers were unable to edit anything beyond the level of charts and dashboards -- modifications to the actual data set had to be performed by (one of our) analysts. The stated reason for this was that the tools we had to perform these changes were powerful and confusing, a mix that we were afraid might lead customers to make irreversible changes accidentally. But, as our customer base has matured, we have felt more demand for data warehouse management tools, and as our product development team has matured, we have recognized that the above reasons are really just lame excuses. We can build tools that aren't confusing, and we can build in protections for reversing accidental changes -- and that's what we're going to do."
This week's question: What did you learn in 2011?
Marks Group

        
This Year in Small Business: The Best Reads
        
This Week in Small Business: Making Lists
        
Small Businesses Plan to Increase Hiring
        
This Week in Small Business: The Clock is Ticking
        
This Week in Small Business: Are Consumers (and Jobs) Back?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BONDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); HOME PRICES (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (53%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) economy; Small Business; Computers and the Internet; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



69 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Mistakes and How To Deal With Them

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: My mistakes, and those of Heritage. 

 BODY:
So Alex Tabarrok thinks he has a great gotcha in my warnings about deficits and interest rates from 2003. Except, I've already acknowledged that mistake:
The second [big mistake] was circa 2003, over the Bush administration's use of the illusion of victory in Iraq to push through more tax cuts, even though the optimistic budget projections used to justify the first round had proved completely wrong. It's worth pointing out that the situation was not at all like the present, where I support temporary deficit spending to deal with a depressed economy; the Bushies were pushing permanent tax cuts that had nothing to do with economic stimulus, and did so at a time of war with no offsetting spending cuts (and then pushed through an unfunded expansion of Medicare too). This struck me at the time as banana-republic behavior, and still does.
However, I wrongly believed that markets would look at it the same way, and that they would lose faith in American governance, driving up interest rates on our debt. Instead, bond investors discounted the politics, and acted as if they believed that America would eventually pull itself together and start behaving responsibly. The jury's still out on that, but clearly my short-run prediction proved wrong.
Now, the problem with Heritage this time is that they didn't make the prediction of rising rates conditional on loss of confidence in US solvency (whether that makes sense is another issue); they presented it as a pure crowding out argument. Here's Brian Riedl:
The government is going to have to raise interest rates in order to convince people to lend them the full amount they need. We're already facing a deficit of $1.2 trillion this year, and 700 billion next year. We borrowed $700 billion for TARP, and now we're going to borrow $800 billion for this stimulus package. Compare those numbers to the entire public debt, which was 5.8 trillion up until a few months ago. It's going to be very difficult for a global economy, which is already in a recession, to supply the U.S. government with [$3 trillion] in new borrowing. Right now, a lot of banks are happy to buy Treasury bonds because they are safe investments . . . but overall, that may not be enough. The government may have to raise interest rates higher and higher and higher in order to persuade people to lend their diminishing savings to the government. And that's going to hurt the economy for a long time.
That was just wrong; it represented a completely wrong model of how the economy works. So where's the rethink?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); MEDICARE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



70 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: A Recipe for Simplifying Life: Ditch All the Recipes

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: In instructing readers on the art of intuitive cooking, the chef and food writer Tamar Adler offers not just cooking lessons, but a recipe for simplifying life. 

 BODY:
What's the first step toward cooking and eating better this year? Perhaps you should start by learning how to boil water.
While that may not sound like much of a cooking technique, you will gain a new appreciation for the hidden potential of boiled food after reading the new book "An Everlasting Meal: Cooking with Economy and Grace," by the chef and food writer Tamar Adler. Placing a pot of water on a hot burner allows us to "do more good cooking than we know," she writes.
Ms. Adler waits for a rapid boil and adds surprisingly large handfuls of salt, tasting until it's reminiscent of ocean water. (People concerned about sodium can use less.) From that simple starting point, several meals can be created, from pasta adorned with gently cooked vegetables to a chicken, simmered and skimmed, cut up and served with a fresh salsa verde. The chicken leaves behind yet another flavorful dish: richly flavored broth, to be eaten hot with vegetables or added to other dishes the rest of the week.
To listen to Ms. Adler talk about cooking is to be drawn into a rhythmic dance where each step - from washing and chopping vegetables to cooking and seasoning the meal - flows effortlessly into the next, guided by the food itself, as well as by our own basic instincts about what tastes good.
A chapter called "How to Have Balance" focuses on bread; "How to Live Well" is devoted to beans. Her message is that cooking does not have to be complicated, and all anyone needs are a few basics to get started. In instructing readers on the art of intuitive cooking, Ms. Adler offers not just cooking lessons, but a recipe for simplifying life.
"There is this sense that to cook well means to be struck with inspiration," said Ms. Adler, 34, whose credentials include stints at the restaurants Prune, in New York, and Chez Panisse, in Berkeley, Calif. "We think everything is supposed to be extraordinary.
"But in European and Asian food culture, food is simply supposed to be good and nourishing and enjoyable" - and, she added, far less stressful.
Why are so many of us intimidated by cooking? It may be that this convenience-food generation never got to see our mothers and grandmothers boiling and roasting meals without a recipe, turning the leftovers into hash or stew. Instead we are guided by cooking shows that celebrate the elaborate preparations and techniques that Ms. Adler calls "high-wire acts."
"Anybody who grew up with a lot of home cooking around them knows that you can have eggs for dinner or that lentils can become pancakes tomorrow," she said. "But sometimes we just don't know that we can do that because they don't do that on TV."
One of her most important lessons is that we need to spend less time thinking about food and more time just enjoying it. Her suggestions about how to prepare vegetables contradict much of what we have been taught, or think we have.
For instance, while most of us stock our crispers with fresh vegetables and then spend the rest of the week racing to eat them before they turn brown, Ms. Adler buys up basketfuls of whatever vegetables are in season, and as soon as she gets home she scrubs off the dirt, trims the leaves, chops and peels, and then cooks and prepares all the vegetables at once - washing and separating lettuce leaves; drizzling cauliflower, beets and carrots with olive oil and roasting them in separate pans. Beet greens are sauteed, and chopped stems and leaves are transformed into pesto.
Many people, myself included, have long believed that vegetables are best if they are cooked just before they are served. But cooking vegetables as soon as you buy them essentially turns them into a convenience food, allowing them to keep longer and creating a starting point for a week's worth of meals.
"We're told that things need to be fresh," Ms. Adler said, but too often "we all end up watching our food go bad, and then it doesn't matter if it was fresh, because we didn't get to eat it."
Watching Ms. Adler cook vegetables is inspiring. (You can see her routine in two videos titled "How to Stride Ahead" on her Web site, tamareadler.com.) Roasted vegetables can be enjoyed immediately, but most will be refrigerated in jars for later in the week. Warmed to room temperature and drizzled with vinaigrette, they make a savory, earthy salad; or blended with broth and a splash of cream, they can be a hearty soup.
For another meal, the cooked vegetables might be used in a frittata or a warm sandwich. Cooked greens can be turned into a bubbling gratin, roasted vegetables are added to risotto, and everything left over can become an end-of-the-week vegetable curry.
The comforting lesson from "An Everlasting Meal" is that we already know plenty about feeding ourselves, and we don't need to complicate things by trying to create something extraordinary every time we cook.
"I feel like people are being hit from all sides by a lot of confusing messages, and they are feeling like eating well is really hard," Ms. Adler said. "This is not a question of expertise. Other than being an expert eater, which we all are by the time we start cooking, we're already experts at knowing when things are done or whether they need more seasoning."

        
Quiz: Do You Have a Generous Relationship?
        
The Generous Marriage
        
Patients, Too, Turn to the Internet for Fund-Raising
        
Tired of Feeling the Burn? Low-Acid Diet May Help
        
Mammogram's Role as Savior Is Tested

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%) Well; Cooking and Cookbooks; Food; Recipes; Everlasting Meal, An: Cooking with Economy and Grace (Book); Eat Well

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



71 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: On Wall Street, Renewed Optimism for Deal-Making

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: According to a recent study by Ernst &#038; Young, 36 percent of companies plan to pursue an acquisition in 2012. 

 BODY:
Before Europe's debt crisis flared anew last summer, rattling markets and choking off a revival in mergers and acquisitions, huge corporate cash piles and cheap debt had fostered hopes that deal-making would recover strongly last year.
In the first half of 2011, the dollar volume of announced mergers worldwide neared its highest levels since the financial crisis. But that momentum proved fragile as deal volume tumbled 19 percent, to about $1.1 trillion, in the second half of 2011, compared with the same period the year before, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Now, with stock and credit markets steadier, deal makers are growing confident that 2012 will be better for business. Not only do they point to cheap financing and the large amounts of cash on corporate balance sheets, but they say that companies that have already cut costs may decide that they need to make acquisitions to drive growth in the face of a tepid economy.
"The dialogue has gotten back on track," said Steven Baronoff, chairman of global mergers and acquisitions at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. "If Europe doesn't go off the rails, you'll see a return to long-term positive factors."
According to a recent study by Ernst & Young, 36 percent of companies plan to pursue an acquisition this year.
"We're optimistic that the need and desire for growth will overcome the volatility headwinds, but that's where the battle will be waged," said James C. Woolery, JPMorgan Chase's co-head of North America mergers and acquisitions.
And there is pent-up demand among buyout shops. After a long stretch of tempered activity, many private equity firms are still feeling the pressure to deploy capital or engineer exits.
Still, companies that explore potential deals will most likely tread cautiously. For one, it remains unclear whether European leaders have done enough to ensure that the financial system remains stable on the Continent. And in the United States, 2012 is a presidential election year. With the White House at stake, companies in businesses like finance and health care may not pursue transactions until the outlook for regulation in those industries is clearer.
Many bankers expect to see notable deal activity in energy, industrials, retail, health care and technology. The energy and health care industries produced some of the largest transactions of 2011, like Express Scripts' $34.3 billion purchase of Medco Health Solutions, Duke Energy's $25.9 billion takeover of Progress Energy and Kinder Morgan's $36.2 billion deal for the El Paso Corporation.
The outlook for mergers and acquisitions worldwide varies sharply by region, bankers say. The Americas, where deal volume rose 14.7 percent in 2011, will remain a bright spot, according to Mr. Baronoff of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Opinion is more divided over Europe, however. While economic and market woes will lead to some bargains and opportunities, deal-making may still be largely stifled by the persistent sovereign debt crisis.
"Europe is still a mess," said David A. DeNunzio, vice chairman of Credit Suisse's mergers and acquisitions group. "People thought there would be more divestiture activity as companies try to get more liquid, but that hasn't happened yet."
The disparities among regional economies is expected to fuel more cross-border transactions in 2012. While it is not a new trend for United States businesses to seek growth in emerging markets, bankers are starting to see a reverse in deal flow. After a string of strong quarters, cash-rich corporations in markets like Brazil and China are now bargain-hunting for established brands in developed markets.
"We weren't having these conversations even three years ago," said Mr. DeNunzio, who expects an increase of 10 to 15 percent in cross-border transactions.
"Many companies in China and Brazil see this as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to acquire world-scale brands at pretty attractive prices," he said.
At the same time, companies are paying more attention to potential regulatory hurdles, whether their transaction plans are cross-border or domestic. The biggest setback in mergers and acquisitions of 2011 was AT&T's aborted $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom, which met opposition from the Obama administration.
A deal announced early in 2011, the merger of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, remains in regulatory limbo as European authorities seek additional concessions.
Though signs point to a stronger mergers and acquisitions market, there is at least one class of deals not ready for a comeback: the highly leveraged buyout.
In 2011, the private equity titans pursued more modest-size transactions in the United States, compared with the go-go years of 2005 to 2007.
Blackstone's largest American acquisition last year was the software maker Emdeon for $3 billion. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's biggest deal was even smaller, a $2.4 billion buyout of Capsugel. According to deal makers, buyout shops are still shopping, but banks are less willing to finance huge leveraged buyouts and boardrooms are hesitant to take on the risk. In the aftermath of the financial crisis, boardrooms are still worried that their companies will be left in the lurch if another Lehmanesque event happens.
"Boards used to say, 'Yeah, go to lunch with L.B.O. firms when they call.' Now they say, 'No, you don't have to do that,' " Mr. DeNunzio of Credit Suisse said. "Corporate directors have long memories."
In 2011, the number of private equity deals announced was roughly flat, but the dollar volume fell 19 percent to $138.1 billion, according to a December report by Ernst & Young.
"And as much as we and our brethren walk with a lot of swagger, the reality is, these institutions and their risk managers need to shed risk-weighted assets, and that makes these types of transactions more difficult," Mr. DeNunzio said.
Nevertheless, deal makers have been encouraged by the evidence that investors look favorably on mergers and acquisitions as a growth strategy.
In the first six months of 2011, several acquirers recorded healthy gains in their stock prices on the day that deals were announced.
Notably, even Valeant Pharmaceuticals - which began a $5.7 billion hostile bid for the drug maker Cephalon in March - soared 10 percent on its announcement, a rare feat for a hostile buyer.
Over all, the global volume of mergers and acquisitions rose 7.6 percent last year, to $2.54 trillion, from 2010, according to Thomson Reuters.
"We have fragile momentum," J. P. Morgan's Mr. Woolery said. "We believe the market will reward prudent acquisitions; the market wants this capital deployed to achieve growth."

        
Battling Headwinds in a Shifting M.&A. Marketplace
        
As Economy Goes, So Go Takeovers, Even as Bargains Abound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); DIVESTITURES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); ELECTIONS (61%) AT&T; Blackstone; Cephalon; Deutsche Borse; Deutsche Telekom; Duke Energy; El Paso Corporation; Express Scripts; Kinder Morgan; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Medco Health Solutions Inc; NYSE Euronext; Progress Energy; T-Mobile USA; Thomson Reuters; Valeant Pharmaceuticals International; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); EL PASO CORP (81%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); KINDER MORGAN INC (51%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); KMI (NYSE) (51%); DUK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



72 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Super Bowl Advertising Sells Out

BYLINE: RICHARD SANDOMIR


HIGHLIGHT: For the Feb. 5 game in Indianapolis, NBC said it sold all of its 30-second ads, at an average of $3.5 million, by Thanksgiving. 

 BODY:
It is never shocking to hear about the steep cost of Super Bowl commercials or to hear that the network televising the game is doing smashingly well at selling its advertising.
For the Feb. 5 game in Indianapolis, NBC said it sold all of its 30-second ads, at an average of $3.5 million, by Thanksgiving. That's up from about $3 million last year when Fox carried the game.
At a $3.5 million average, the 70 commercials that run during the game would produce $245 million in gross revenue; subtract ad agency commission, and NBC would receive just over $208 million.
Then, add in the revenue from the six commercials that will run during halftime, and still more in the six hours of pregame programming, and you can see why networks love Super Bowls.
"We should shatter all prior records for that day," Seth Winter, the senior vice president for sales and marketing for the NBC Sports Group, said last week.
In 2009, the last time NBC carried the Super Bowl, selling advertising was not so easy, and it had to keep at it through the weekend of the game. NBC left the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing with 85 percent of its Super Bowl advertising sold. Then the economy cratered.
"We really slogged through the last 15 percent," Winter said. Not so this time. While the economy is not robust, advertising for major sports events is. "I never underestimate luck and timing," he added.
NBC is also selling advertising on its live streamed broadcast of the game and on Super Bowl-related programming to be shown on the NBC Sports Network.
"Every advertiser in the Super Bowl has some participation across the board of the NBC Sports Group portfolio," Winter said.
The ability to sell advertising at enormous prices for a game that will reach over 100 million viewers is one reason NBC agreed last month to a nine-year deal that starts in 2014 with the N.F.L. and will cost the network an average of $950 million annually. The contract guarantees NBC three Super Bowl broadcasts.

        
NBC Will Stream Super Bowl
        
Arizona Gets 2015 Super Bowl
        
Embracing a Snow Bowl
        
At Combine, Rex Ryan Guarantees Super Bowl Win
        
Super Bowl Seating Fiasco Began With Jerry Jones's Wish to Set Record

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); EVENT MARKETING (72%) Super Bowl

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) INDIANA, USA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



73 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: "I think that volume of negativity has done enough damage,'' Newt Gingrich said. 

 BODY:
WALFORD, Iowa -- Newt Gingrich has dusted off an old theme song: "Eye of the Tiger,'' whose lyric "just a man and his will to survive" pumped from speakers as his campaign bus rolled dramatically into the warehouse of an excavating company here.
Earlier Monday, Mr. Gingrich conceded he was unlikely to win the caucuses Tuesday night but said he would count himself victorious "because I'm still standing.''
"I'm carrying the weight of $3.5 million of negative ads,'' he said, referring to the attacks on him by supporters of Mitt Romney.
"I think that volume of negativity has done enough damage.''
Mr. Gingrich has sought to turn his opponents' attack ads into an issue that will boomerang in his favor, but so far there is little evidence of a voter backlash. And responding to attacks has diverted him from the message he has sought to convey for the past two weeks - that the millions of American jobs created while he was House speaker make him the best qualified candidate in a time of economic malaise. 
Asked by a reporter during a stop in Independence to summarize in one sentence why he deserved to win, Mr. Gingrich responded like a pageant contestant (in three sentences): "I should win the Iowa caucus because I'm the only candidate who would successfully debate Obama in the fall,'' he said. "I'm the only candidate who has an actual track record -- twice, with Reagan and then as speaker -- of actually changing Washington. Everybody else would be an amateur in the Obama tradition who would not know what they were doing or how to do it if they won.''
For days Mr. Gingrich, drawing a contrast with Washington gridlock, has painted a rosy picture of how he and President Bill Clinton worked together successfully to pass laws enabling growth and prosperity in the 1990s.
His memory is selective -- he never mentions shutting down the government twice or leading the impeachment of Mr. Clinton - but the picture of compromise with a Democratic president allows him distance from his reputation as, perhaps, the forerunner of today's hyperpartisanship in Washington.
Mr. Gingrich ticked off the successes as House speaker again on Monday: passing the first tax cut in 16 years, including the largest capital gains tax cut ever; changes to welfare reform that he said took people off government support and made them productive workers; balancing budgets that paid down the national debt.
(Many economists dispute Mr. Gingrich's account of 90s prosperity, pointing instead to rising productivity thanks to digital technology and Mr. Clinton's first budget in 1993, which included a small tax increase and which Mr. Gingrich opposed.)
Mr. Gingrich scathingly returned to another favored theme: what he describes as President Obama's inexperience and incompetence as a compromiser. Responding to news reports over the weekend that the White House had concluded it could not pass major legislation in 2012 because of Republican opposition, Mr. Gingrich demanded that the president should forgo his salary.
"For the president to announce he's going to now govern without Congress, well, he's not going to govern,'' Mr. Gingrich said. "He's going to be a candidate for an entire year. He shouldn't take his salary.''
Mr. Obama's aides have indicated that extending the payroll tax cut past the two months that Congress agreed to is his one remaining legislative ambition, but he has pivoted into campaign mode and will run against the dysfunction in the unpopular Congress.
"In terms of the president's relationship with Congress in 2012," Josh Earnest, the White House deputy press secretary, recently said, "the president is no longer tied to Washington, D.C."
Mr. Gingrich called such a stance "outrageously unconstitutional.''

        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
Gingrich Hit Hard by Iowa Mailers
        
Gingrich Once Sided With Romney on Health Care
        
Documents Appear to Contradict Gingrich's Account of First Divorce
        
Christmas May Offer Respite for Gingrich

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%) Iowa Caucus; negative ads; newt gingrich; Gingrich, Newt; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; In Iowa; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



74 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Cantor Defends House G.O.P. Stance on Tax Increases

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: During an interview with "60 Minutes," Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, strongly defended his party's dug-in opposition to tax increases last year. 

 BODY:

During an interview with "60 Minutes," Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the House majority leader, strongly defended his party's dug-in opposition to tax increases last year, saying it reflected the party's core values, but he seemed to stumble when recounting former President Ronald Reagan's record on taxes. 
4:48 p.m. | Updated In an exchange with Lesley Stahl that was broadcast on CBS on New Year's Day, Mr. Cantor explained the difference between compromising and cooperation, noting that cooperation meant moving forward on fiscal policies Democrats and Republicans could agree upon, while compromising meant sacrificing core principles. Mr. Cantor pointed to Mr. Reagan as a leader who "never compromised his principles."
Ms. Stahl noted that Mr. Reagan "also raised taxes." But as Mr. Cantor moved into his response, adding that Mr. Reagan had also been a tax cutter, his spokesman, Brad Dayspring, interrupted off camera with: "That's not true, and I don't want to let that stand." 
When asked, Mr. Cantor's office explained that the remark referred to the cumulative effect of Mr. Reagan's tax policies, pointing out that he cut taxes more than he raised them, and that Mr. Reagan expressed regret making tax deals with Democrats because the spending cuts they agreed to never materialized.
Mr. Cantor's office also noted that the back and forth with Ms. Stahl on President Reagan was longer than shown in the final broadcast, encompassing various aspects of the Reagan presidency, and that the interruption by Mr. Dayspring occurred after a series of questions on the same issue, not a single one.
Mr. Reagan raised taxes numerous times during his eight years in office, including during the 1982 recession.
While the "60 Minutes" segment sought to explore Mr. Cantor's personal ambitions and the gridlock that has seized Congress, there were a few personal revelations about Mr. Cantor tucked into roughly 13 minutes:

        
 Mr. Cantor, who is the most powerful Jewish member of Congress, regularly performed in Christmas pageants at his private school in Richmond, Va., where he grew up. "I'm sure there were times which I was very aware of not being like others," he said.
        
 Mr. Cantor's wife, Diana Fine Cantor, who appears during some of the segment, says she supports abortion rights and suggests she supports gay marriage, in contrast to her husband. 
        
 Mr. Cantor is a fan of the rap artist Jay-Z.
        
 At home, the congressman favors V-neck sweaters and plaid shirts.
Watch the entire segment here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%); MARRIAGE (60%); ABORTION (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Cantor, Eric; Taxation; United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Virginia; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (94%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JAY-Z (50%) Cantor, Eric

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



75 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Romney Sounds Increasingly Confident in Iowa

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney is using a well-worn joke about his wife falling on "da butt in Dubuque." 

 BODY:
DUBUQUE, Iowa - Ann Romney fell on her bottom in Dubuque four years ago, and her husband can't stop talking about it.
At an event at a paper and plastic warehouse here Monday afternoon, Mitt Romney introduced Ann to the crowd as "a person who has a special, special relationship with Dubuque, as you may recall," offering an anecdote so well worn that Mr. Romney's traveling press corps started sending out the punch line on Twitter before Mr. Romney was even finished.
Recounting a moment during his last campaign for president, Mr. Romney said: "I'm standing here, she's standing there, and suddenly her half of the stage collapsed, in Dubuque, at the Best Western Hotel. And she went down on the ground, landed on her backside, and I said, 'How are you, honey?' She said, 'Well, I fell on 'da butt in Dubuque.' "
In Dubuque, Mrs. Romney sounded a confident note, telling the crowd that they were witnessing history in the making.
"You know, kids, guess what: This is going to be a momentous moment in your life and you're going to remember that you were here when it all started in Iowa, and that this guy right here might be the next president of the United States," she said. "And I actually think with all of your help, he will be the next president of the United States."
Mr. Romney's Monday in Iowa was, as he put it, "a family affair," with Ann, three of his sons - Tagg, Josh, and Craig - and his brother, Scott, and his wife, joining Mr. Romney on his bus.
The former governor of Massachusetts has spent the week in Iowa marveling at his crowds - his morning event in Davenport, held in a large dance hall at fairgrounds, was his first event not to pack the room - and he and everyone in his entourage seemed peppy and upbeat.
Eric Fehrnstrom, a top adviser to Mr. Romney, presented his candidate as the most electable, saying that not only was he best equipped to turn around the economy, but also that he was most likely to defeat President Obama in November.
"Look, Obama and the D.N.C. are terrified of Mitt Romney, terrified, because he represents everything that President Obama is not," Mr. Fehrnstrom said, referring to the Democratic National Committee. "That's why they spend so much time attacking Mitt - the president's 'super PAC' is almost entirely devoted to going after Mitt, and all of their communications about Mitt Romney have been negative. They fear Mitt Romney, they do not want a contest with Mitt Romney, because if Mitt Romney is the nominee, we're going to spend the entire year talking about the fact that there are 25 million Americans looking for work and this president failed them."
When asked about Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania who has experience a recent surge in the Iowa polls, Mr. Fehrnstrom said, "We'll see him in New Hampshire," a state where Mr. Romney has a strong base of support.
Though neither Mr. Romney nor his campaign would predict a victory in the Iowa caucuses Tuesday, Mr. Fehrnstrom did say he thought Mr. Romney would ultimately emerge victorious. "At the end of the day we're confident we'll have the number of delegates we need to become the nominee," he said.
Mr. Fehrnstrom was not the only one on message. When Mr. Romney introduced Mrs. Romney in Davenport, he lauded her appearance on "Fox and Friends" Monday morning, calling her "marvelous."
"They asked her tough questions, and she did exactly what you're supposed to do: She didn't answer them," he said.

        
A Christmas Adventure, With an Entourage, for the Romneys
        
Ann Romney Diagnosed With Early Stage Breast Cancer
        
Ann Romney Extra
        
Ann Romney's New Web Role
        
Ann Romney on the Trail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CAUCUSES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); GOVERNORS (65%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) ann romney; da butt; mitt romney; Romney, Ann; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Iowa; In Iowa; The Caucus

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (74%) Romney, Ann; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (58%) IOWA, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



76 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Davenport Becomes a Magnet for Candidates

BYLINE: A. G. SULZBERGER


HIGHLIGHT: An eastern Iowa city known for its moderate politics draws three presidential candidates in one day. 

 BODY:
DAVENPORT, Iowa - It took Carolyn Barry nearly until the caucuses to make up her mind. But her flirtations with a series of other candidates seemed a thing of the past as she enthusiastically shook Mitt Romney's hand while wearing a campaign button that spoke to suddenly solid support. 
"We've listened to all the others," said Ms. Barry, 69, "And this man here makes more sense than any of them so far."
Three candidates traveled to this city, Iowa's third largest, to make their final pitches on Monday, highlighting its importance on the last full day of campaigning before this long season of prognostication gives way to actual vote tallying Tuesday. And despite the cold and blustery weather -- which Mr. Romney's wife declared "finally feels like winter in Iowa" -- hundreds of voters massed at events around this city. 
The day started with Mr. Romney entreating those who helped him win this county four years ago: "I need you to get out and do that again." In the afternoon, a far larger and more enthusiastic group chanted and cheered as Representative Ron Paul laid out his vision for reshaping the nation. And in the evening, a smaller crowd showed up to see Mr. Gingrich, who had earlier predicted that he is unlikely to win.
Though most of the people in the crowds were committed supporters of the candidates, a few people used the series of events to help make up their minds after an election cycle defined by indecision. 
Don Mitchell, 59, who works at a senior living center, attended events for Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul - and planned to see Mr. Gingrich during a later appearance at a hotel here -- in search of last-minute clarity.
"I'm looking to get a more personal sense of who these candidates are," he said.
In a state with a foot in both the Great Plains and the Rust Belt, Davenport is more Rust Belt, an old manufacturing city of 100,000 people set on the Mississippi River and part of the Quad Cities area that stretches over to Illinois. Home to companies like John Deere, Scott County had an unemployment rate of 6.7 percent in November, far lower than the national average. 
Though the appearance of half the Republican field showed that the area remained an important staging ground in the battle for the nomination - party voters tend to be more moderate and more focused on fiscal issues than on the other side of the state, local leaders said -- it also was a reminder that just a day later Iowa will revert to being known more as a critical swing state. 
Bundled up against the cold and holding handwritten signs, several local Democratic leaders staged a small protest outside fairgrounds where Mr. Romney was appearing. But they had no plans to attend the events for Mr. Paul or Mr. Gingrich.
 "No, I didn't even know about that," said Dennis DeDecker, 60, a machinist at an aluminum company who serves on the county central committee. "I think he'll be the one they nominate."
Though the county has not supported a Republican for president since Ronald Reagan, Bill Gluba, the mayor and a longtime Democratic leader, said this was the type of place that may determine the re-election outcome for President Obama, who visited here several months ago. He said that the area supported the Republican candidate for governor in the last election. 
"I wouldn't take this county for granted," said Mr. Gluba, in whose office are several photographs of him standing alongside President Obama (one from four years ago is addressed to "my loyal friend and supporter, for the great introduction to Davenport, Iowa.")
Hundreds turned out to see Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who was accompanied by his son Rand Paul, a senator for Kentucky. His dedicated supporters have been the most visible in the area leading up to the vote. The standing-room only crowd repeatedly applauded and chanted in support.
"You can feel that buzz happening, just like you did with Obama," said Todd McGreevy, 43, a supporter who is publisher of the River Cities' Reader, the local biweekly newspaper, which made a front page case for his nomination. (Though Mr. Paul received just 9 percent of the vote here in 2008, compared with 31 percent for Mr. Romney, Mr. McGreevy pointed out that the Mr. Paul had visited three times this time as opposed to never the last election.)
But if Mr. Paul's supporters came to him for what they see as his unwavering vision, the crowd at Mr. Romney's event were there for a much more practical reason.
 "At the end of the day it comes down to electability," said Gary Turpin, 65, who does marketing for an energy company. " I think every one of them is a good person and a good candidate, but I think he's the most electable."
At the evening event Mr. Gingrich was late, prompting some to leave. Those who stayed said they were undaunted by the sinking poll numbers and uninterested in the other candidates.
"I have no desire to see the rest of them," said Bob Peppers, 70, a locksmith. 
An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of Davenport's mayor, Bill Gluba, as Gulba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Paul, Rand; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Des Moines (IA); Iowa; In Iowa; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RON PAUL (79%) Paul, Rand; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%) IOWA, USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Des Moines (IA); Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



77 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: 'My Name is ____. Vote for ____.'

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: A look at advance speeches, given to caucus captains, helps reveal the essential character of the candidates. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES - They are known as caucus captains: volunteers who will deliver impassioned, seemingly spontaneous final sales pitches for their favored Republican presidential candidates on Tuesday night, moments before Iowans cast their ballots. 
In reality, it is rarely if ever left to the imagination of these supporters to come up with these all-important remarks. Instead, the campaigns provide detailed scripts that leave little room for improvisation. (Even opening greetings are laid out: "My name is ____ and tonight I am here to vote for Rick Santorum.")
Advance copies of the speeches show that they vary in length, style and emphasis, but in ways subtle and overt, they capture the essential character of the candidates. 
Michele Bachmann
Big Picture: "We have strayed from the founder's vision of government, and the 2012 election may be our last opportunity to reclaim our liberty from a government that is taking away more of our freedoms every day."
Buzzword: "Stand" (as in, stand strong, stand up, stand for).
Conservative Appeal: "Michele started the Tea Party Caucus."
Knock on Obama: Pledges to "dismantle his radical socialist agenda."
Soft Sell: "The mother of five biological children and 23 foster children."
Telling Detail: Likens herself to Ronald Reagan in 1980.
Rick Perry
Big Picture: "He is the one candidate who will work every day to make Washington less consequential in our lives."
Buzzword: "Outsider."
Conservative Appeal: "He is America's most prolife governor."
Knock on Obama: Promises to "get rid of costly Obama regulations."
Soft Sell: "He has been married to his high school sweetheart for nearly 30 years."
Telling Detail: He was an Eagle Scout.
Mitt Romney
Big Picture: "Mitt Romney is the only Republican with experience in the real economy creating jobs."
Buzzword: "Leadership."
Conservative Appeal: A pledge to "stop union bosses from standing in the way of economic growth."
Knock on Obama: The president is creating an "entitlement society."
Soft Sell: "With Ann by his side for 42 years, he's been a great husband and father."
Telling Detail: Dings rivals by saying he wouldn't "embarrass the office" of president.
 
Rick Santorum
Big Picture: "We have the special opportunity to catapult a true conservative warrior to the top of the national polls."
Buzzword: "Warrior."
Conservative Appeal: "Rick Santorum ended partial-birth abortions in America."
Knock on Obama: None
Soft Sell: "Faithful husband, a home school dad to seven children."
Telling Detail: Quotes John Adams, Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CAUCUSES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOSTER CARE (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); JOB CREATION (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); ABORTION (50%) Bachmann, Michele M; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; In Iowa; The Caucus

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%); GLENN BECK (51%) Bachmann, Michele M; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012



78 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Raising a Glass to 2011

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: DealBook's annual closing dinner celebrates the best and worst in the world of finance in 2011. 

 BODY:
Please, please take your seats.
Thank you once again for coming to DealBook's annual closing dinner, where we toast and roast the world of finance - and look ahead to the new year.
We moved this year's dinner from its usual spot in Manhattan to Paris so Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel (or Merkozy, as you know them) could attend, given their newfound influence on the markets and the global economy.
We thought of holding our gathering in Berlin, but then realized this might be the last year we'd be able to do Paris while France still has its AAA credit rating. Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, also pointed out that Socit Gnrale could use the extra A.T.M. fees from all of you withdrawing tip money for the coat check.
Not everyone could make it. We mailed Jon Corzine several invitations, but initial reports indicated they were accidentally commingled with his holiday cards. He now says he misplaced the invitations completely and has "no idea" where they could be.
Silvio Berlusconi originally R.S.V.P.'ed "yes" when he saw the menu, but backed out when he learned that "16-year-old Caol Ila" was a single-malt whisky.
But it's nice to see that so many of you could attend. The seating chart was a bit challenging. Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is sitting next to Paul Volcker. They've agreed to take any discussion of the Volcker Rule outside.
I placed Lloyd Blankfein next to Mark Zuckerberg to ease the underwriting pitch for Facebook's planned I.P.O. in 2012. I overheard Mr. Zuckerberg ask Mr. Blankfein what holiday gifts he had given his children. Then Mr. Zuckerberg added, "I'm not making small talk, Lloyd - it's literally the only piece of your personal data I don't have."
By the way, Mr. Blankfein, the celebrity chef Mario Batali is graciously catering our dinner and has assured me that blood-sucking squid is not on the menu. I should also note that Mr. Batali has volunteered his services, perhaps to atone for declaring in 2011 that "the ways the bankers have kind of toppled the way money is distributed and taken most of it into their hands is as good as Stalin or Hitler and the evil guys." Mario is preparing tagliatelle ai funghi e pancetta, which roughly translates to "please don't put my restaurants out of business."
I was hoping to invite some leaders of Occupy Wall Street to provide a little balance, but I still don't know who's in charge.
Finally, Andrew Mason of Groupon is here. It's hard to overstate how big a year it was for Mr. Mason. His company went public, he became a billionaire and the daily coupon deals phenomenon he pioneered has seemingly swept the nation. Even his tablemate, Brian Moynihan, chief executive of Bank of America, is getting into the Groupon spirit with an offer of his own: three shares for the former price of one!
And now, on to the toasts and roasts of 2011:
BIGGEST LOSER AT&T's attempted $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile may have been the worst merger idea of 2011. Both sides claim the regulatory winds shifted in Washington after the deal was announced. But anyone who was paying even a whiff of attention knew from Day 1 that regulators would block it.
Many have credited T-Mobile's parent, Deutsche Telekom, and its legal team for walking away with a breakup fee worth about $6 billion. But T-Mobile winds up the biggest loser. The sour regulatory mood will make it harder for T-Mobile to pursue a deal with Sprint, which had been circling the company before AT&T arrived. T-Mobile and Sprint are both in worse positions than they were a year ago; both companies have lost customers, and Sprint has a lot less money to spend on an acquisition.
As for Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chief, while the dead deal was clearly a mistake at least it was a relatively cheap one, costing the company only about two months' worth of cash flow.
BIGGEST WINNER (FOR NOW) Richard Handler, the chief of Jefferies & Company, probably deserves a pat on the back - and a double shot of that Caol Ila. He had a tough 2011.
His firm skirted a run on the bank after the collapse of MF Global put the spotlight on Jefferies as the American investment house most vulnerable to European sovereign debt. A credit rating downgrade only fanned the flames. But Mr. Handler stood firm, issuing lengthy denials of virtually any speculation that emerged. And he reduced the firm's exposure to European sovereign debt by half just to prove to the market that he could. He had little choice, but so far, it's been a winning strategy. Stay tuned for 2012.
THE RATINGS AGENCIES I've invited Douglas Peterson, the newly installed president of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, mainly because the firm - and its industry peers - performed so miserably. You're new, Mr. Peterson - you just came over from Citigroup, where you were chief operating officer - so we'll let you eat with us this time.
But do take note: until the week before the collapse of MF Global, your peer agencies were giving that firm an investment-grade credit rating. As usual, the big ratings agencies did not sound the alarms until long after the fire was raging out of control. In S.& P.'s case, it kept an investment-grade rating on MF Global until it filed for bankruptcy protection.
Remember Enron? A.I.G.? S.& P. rated those companies with just as much insight. And Mr. Peterson, your firm's downgrade of the United States last summer seemed aimed more at generating media attention and headlines than helping investors understand the risks of investing in United States Treasury securities. If anything, the downgrade proved how irrelevant the ratings agencies have become: Treasuries have since rallied.
So that you can gain a fuller appreciation of the anger the American public harbors for your firm and industry, I seated you next to Michael Moore, who recently said on Twitter: "Pres Obama, show some guts & arrest the CEO of Standard & Poors."
CONSUMER 'PROTECTION' I invited both Elizabeth Warren and Richard Cordray to make a point: the bankers in this room waged a successful campaign to keep Ms. Warren from running the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in 2011. That, in turn, led President Obama to nominate Mr. Cordray, who was rejected by Republicans, again at the behest of Wall Street.
Whether either was the right person for the post is almost irrelevant. What's clear is that Wall Street is doing everything it can to keep the agency from being able to do its job, and that's a shame.
Even if you think the financial industry is overregulated or you don't like the agency's governance structure, all this political maneuvering sends an awful message to the public: Wall Street banks are actively trying to stymie a start-up agency charged with protecting consumers' money.
SLEEPER DEAL OF 2011 The sale of EMI Publishing for $2.2 billion to a group led by Sony was hardly the biggest deal of the year, but it might have been the most interesting and undercovered transaction of 2011.
Consider this: EMI's recorded music unit - the sexy part of the business that produces albums by the likes of Katy Perry and Coldplay - was sold on the same day for $1.9 billion to the Universal Music Group, a division of the French conglomerate Vivendi.
That means the typically boring publishing business, which deals with song copyrights, was sold for more, and it went to a Sony-led group that included boldface-name investors like the media mogul David Geffen; the estate of Michael Jackson; Blackstone's GSO Capital Partners unit; Mubadala, the investment arm of Abu Dhabi; and Jynwel Capital of Hong Kong.
The transaction was orchestrated by Robert Wiesenthal, chief financial officer of the Sony Corporation of America, demonstrating that in this age of digital media uncertainty, the predictable fee stream of a homely business like music publishing has a higher value than an ego-driven trophy asset like music recording.
Watch for more deals of this sort in 2012.
REMEMBERING TEDDY Finally, let's have a brief moment of silence for Theodore Forstmann, one of the pioneers of the private equity business, who died in November after a battle with brain cancer.
In an often-scorned industry, he embodied its best parts. Bold, often brash, sometimes difficult, he was ultimately an entrepreneur's entrepreneur. And he was introspective enough to have serious doubts about the use of leverage and speak out publicly about it. Most important of all, he donated much of his fortune to underprivileged children.
I'd be remiss if I did not also mention another industry legend who died in 2011: F. Warren Hellman, co-founder of Hellman & Friedman, the West Coast buyout firm that once owned Levi Strauss & Company and Nasdaq. He, too, gave away much of the "2 and 20" he made.
At a time when the "1 percent" is being ridiculed as selfish and greedy, it is worth remembering the enormous good Mr. Forstmann and Mr. Hellman accomplished. I attended Mr. Forstmann's funeral and was struck less by the Masters of the Universe in the pews than by the dozens of schoolchildren in attendance - most of them recipients of scholarships financed by Mr. Forstmann.
An earlier version of this column misstated the headquarters of Jynwel Capital as Malaysia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (71%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (68%) DealBook Column

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (86%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (72%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%); JAMES DIMON (54%); JON CORZINE (52%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (72%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012



79 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: A Recipe for Simplifying Life: Ditch All the Recipes

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
What's the first step toward cooking and eating better this year? Perhaps you should start by learning how to boil water.
While that may not sound like much of a cooking technique, you will gain a new appreciation for the hidden potential of boiled food after reading the new book ''An Everlasting Meal: Cooking with Economy and Grace,'' by the chef and food writer Tamar Adler. Placing a pot of water on a hot burner allows us to ''do more good cooking than we know,'' she writes.
Ms. Adler waits for a rapid boil and adds surprisingly large handfuls of salt, tasting until it's reminiscent of ocean water. (People concerned about sodium can use less.) From that simple starting point, several meals can be created, from pasta adorned with gently cooked vegetables to a chicken, simmered and skimmed, cut up and served with a fresh salsa verde. The chicken leaves behind yet another flavorful dish: richly flavored broth, to be eaten hot with vegetables or added to other dishes the rest of the week. 
To listen to Ms. Adler talk about cooking is to be drawn into a rhythmic dance where each step - from washing and chopping vegetables to cooking and seasoning the meal - flows effortlessly into the next, guided by the food itself, as well as by our own basic instincts about what tastes good.
A chapter called ''How to Have Balance'' focuses on bread; ''How to Live Well'' is devoted to beans. Her message is that cooking does not have to be complicated, and all anyone needs are a few basics to get started. In instructing readers on the art of intuitive cooking, Ms. Adler offers not just cooking lessons, but a recipe for simplifying life.
''There is this sense that to cook well means to be struck with inspiration,'' said Ms. Adler, 34, whose credentials include stints at the restaurants Prune, in New York, and Chez Panisse, in Berkeley, Calif. ''We think everything is supposed to be extraordinary.
''But in European and Asian food culture, food is simply supposed to be good and nourishing and enjoyable'' - and, she added, far less stressful.
Why are so many of us intimidated by cooking? It may be that this convenience-food generation never got to see our mothers and grandmothers boiling and roasting meals without a recipe, turning the leftovers into hash or stew. Instead we are guided by cooking shows that celebrate the elaborate preparations and techniques that Ms. Adler calls ''high-wire acts.''
''Anybody who grew up with a lot of home cooking around them knows that you can have eggs for dinner or that lentils can become pancakes tomorrow,'' she said. ''But sometimes we just don't know that we can do that because they don't do that on TV.''
One of her most important lessons is that we need to spend less time thinking about food and more time just enjoying it. Her suggestions about how to prepare vegetables contradict much of what we have been taught, or think we have.
For instance, while most of us stock our crispers with fresh vegetables and then spend the rest of the week racing to eat them before they turn brown, Ms. Adler buys up basketfuls of whatever vegetables are in season, and as soon as she gets home she scrubs off the dirt, trims the leaves, chops and peels, and then cooks and prepares all the vegetables at once - washing and separating lettuce leaves; drizzling cauliflower, beets and carrots with olive oil and roasting them in separate pans. Beet greens are sauteed, and chopped stems and leaves are transformed into pesto.
Many people, myself included, have long believed that vegetables are best if they are cooked just before they are served. But cooking vegetables as soon as you buy them essentially turns them into a convenience food, allowing them to keep longer and creating a starting point for a week's worth of meals.
''We're told that things need to be fresh,'' Ms. Adler said, but too often ''we all end up watching our food go bad, and then it doesn't matter if it was fresh, because we didn't get to eat it.''
Watching Ms. Adler cook vegetables is inspiring. (You can see her routine in two videos titled ''How to Stride Ahead'' on her Web site, tamareadler.com.) Roasted vegetables can be enjoyed immediately, but most will be refrigerated in jars for later in the week. Warmed to room temperature and drizzled with vinaigrette, they make a savory, earthy salad; or blended with broth and a splash of cream, they can be a hearty soup.
For another meal, the cooked vegetables might be used in a frittata or a warm sandwich. Cooked greens can be turned into a bubbling gratin, roasted vegetables are added to risotto, and everything left over can become an end-of-the-week vegetable curry.
The comforting lesson from ''An Everlasting Meal'' is that we already know plenty about feeding ourselves, and we don't need to complicate things by trying to create something extraordinary every time we cook.
''I feel like people are being hit from all sides by a lot of confusing messages, and they are feeling like eating well is really hard,'' Ms. Adler said. ''This is not a question of expertise. Other than being an expert eater, which we all are by the time we start cooking, we're already experts at knowing when things are done or whether they need more seasoning.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (77%); WRITERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



80 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Forecasters See Spending Pinch Lingering in '12

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
American consumers are running out of tricks.
As the weak economy has trudged on, they have leaned on credit cards to pay for holiday gifts, many bought at discounts. They are dipping into savings to cover spikes in gas, food and rent. They are substituting domestic vacations for international trips, squeezing more life out of their washing machines and refrigerators and switching to alternatives as meat prices have risen.
That leaves little room for a big increase in spending in 2012, economists say, a shaky foundation for the most important pillar of the American economy.
''The consumer is far from healthy,'' said Steve Blitz, senior economist for ITG Investment Research. 
Even the seemingly robust holiday shopping season is raising concern. After a strong start on Thanksgiving weekend, a pronounced lull followed, causing retailers to mark down products heavily in the week before Christmas. While final numbers for the season are not in, analysts say they are worried that retailers had to eat into profits to generate high revenues.
Consumer spending makes up 70 percent of the economy, so until it ignites, general growth is likely to be sluggish.
Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting company, projects growth of around 2 percent for the first half of this year, down from an estimate of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 and just 1.8 percent in the third quarter.
For consumers, the reasons for the sluggishness are clear: incomes are essentially flat, job growth is modest, and more than 40 percent of the new jobs in the last two years have been in low-paying sectors like retail and hospitality.
While consumer spending is not ''going to collapse,'' said Joel Prakken, senior managing director at Macroeconomic Advisers, ''there are some headwinds there.''
Sarah M. Manley, a marketing consultant with two young sons in Waconia, Minn., has developed coping strategies in the last few years. Laid off in 2008, she started a business. She and her husband can make their mortgage payments and are paying off debts from when a storm damaged their roof.
''It's not necessarily that I'm saving more money, but I'm paying off some of the debts that were amassed during the last three years, just trying to make headway,'' Ms. Manley said.
To do that, she has changed habits. She uses the app GasBuddy to check prices at nearby stations before she buys gas for her car. She buys seasonal food on sale and freezes it -- for Valentine's Day, she plans to prepare crab legs she bought and froze last summer -- and she is stocking up on holiday hams. She has switched from buying milk in gallon containers to buying it for less in plastic bags from the local gas station.
For big purchases, like the laptop she bought last summer, Ms. Manley still relies on credit, but is careful. She opens credit card accounts offering an introductory rate of no interest, then closes them just before the annual percentage rate kicks in.
''Everybody's learned how to be frugal in the last two or three years,'' she said.
Economic indicators suggest that, while things may not get worse for consumers this year, they will not get much better. In the third quarter of 2011, the most recent period for which figures are available, consumer spending rose slightly more than 1 percent, according to the Commerce Department.
Although housing sales have recently shown signs of recovery, prices are still falling and mortgage lenders are cautious. In November, contracts represented by 33 percent of members of the National Association of Realtors did not close, up from just 9 percent a year ago.
And with more than one in every five borrowers still owing more than their homes are worth, many homeowners feel too pressed to spend on much more than the essentials.
The stock market did not help consumers, either. Because of turmoil in the markets in the late summer and early fall, household wealth declined by $2.4 trillion in that period, a contraction likely to make people think twice about big purchases.
Adding to the uncertainty, financial weakness in Europe, and the potential expiration of the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance benefits in two months, could further soften spending.
''I used to say people will always beg, borrow or steal to spend,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Decision Economics, a consulting firm. He has changed his mind. He is forecasting ''firmer'' spending in 2012, but said the economy would ''not grow anywhere near our growth in previous postrecession periods.''
Some signs suggest borrower distress. Credit card delinquencies increased for the first time in almost two years in the third quarter, according to credit bureau TransUnion, though the delinquency rates are still very low. And mortgage delinquencies were about 6 percent at the end of 2011, down a little from a year ago but higher than earlier last year, compared with the prerecession rate of 1.5 to 2 percent.
''That's a long way to go to get us back to a steady state,'' said Steve Chaouki, group vice president for financial services for TransUnion.
Another crucial factor holding back the American consumer is that many people who borrowed heavily during the boom to buy cars or appliances, or take vacations, are still repaying debt and cannot win approval for new loans, so they must find other ways to pay for things.
Though shopping has remained relatively strong, the level of consumer debt in October was at its highest in two years, meaning people are buying on credit rather than with income. And the savings rate in November was 3.5 percent, the lowest since 2007, which suggests shoppers are also buying with savings.
''We don't think this is sustainable and expect slowing spending growth going forward,'' Colin McGranahan, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note to clients that reviewed numbers for November.
In Copley, Ohio, a suburb of Akron, Lynette Paudel, 39, said that some things are looking up: her husband, Govind, received a raise in September when he was recruited to a mechanical engineering job in Akron at a French company.
But she said she was likely to use that extra income to establish a cushion in their savings account and pay off credit card balances. She said it would also ease the strain of sending money to her husband's family in Nepal each month.
''I know we're lucky,'' said Ms. Paudel, a high school English teacher who said neither she nor her husband lost their jobs in the downturn or its aftermath. But, she said, ''we're naturally fairly frugal'' and plan to remain that way. She said the family will camp during summer vacation and will not replace her 2003 minivan ''until it breaks.''
Even some growth areas in the economy can be explained by tapped-out consumers. Take auto sales, which rose about 10 percent nationwide in 2011 from a year earlier.
''People can only hold onto their cars for so long,'' said Romolo Debottis, new-car sales manager at Mike Bass Ford in Sheffield Village, a suburb of Cleveland. He said sales at the dealership should increase this year to 2007 levels, the prerecession peak. ''A lot of them have done that above and beyond what they normally would, and they're just ready to spend money and buy a new vehicle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah M. Manley, a marketing consultant inWaconia, Minn., with food bought at a discount and stockpiled in her freezer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lynette and Govind Paudel, and their children Alina, 3, Sophia, 9, and Ravi, 7, of Copley, Ohio, with the 2003 minivan Ms. Paudel said they do not plan to replace ''until it breaks.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



81 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: It Costs More, but Is It Worth More?

BYLINE: By EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL and STEVEN D. PEARSON


HIGHLIGHT: Ezekiel J. Emanuel, an oncologist and former White House adviser, is a vice provost and professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times. Steven D. Pearson, a general internist, is the president of the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review at the Massachusetts General Hospital's Institute for Technology Assessment.

 BODY:
IF you want to know what is wrong with American health care today, exhibit A might be the two new proton beam treatment facilities the Mayo Clinic has begun building, one in Minnesota, the other in Arizona, at a cost of more than $180 million dollars each. They are part of a medical arms race for proton beam machines, which could cost taxpayers billions of dollars for a treatment that, in many cases, appears to be no better than cheaper alternatives.
Proton beam therapy is a kind of radiation used to treat cancers. The particles are made of atomic nuclei rather than the usual X-rays, and theoretically can be focused more precisely on cancerous tissue, minimizing the danger to healthy tissue surrounding it. But the machines are tremendously expensive, requiring a particle accelerator encased in a football-field-size building with concrete walls. As a result, Medicare will pay around $50,000 for proton beam therapy for a patient with prostate cancer, roughly twice as much as it would if the patient received another type of radiation. 
The higher price would be worth it if proton beam therapy cured more people or significantly reduced side effects. But there is no evidence showing that this is true, except for a handful of rare pediatric cancers, like brain and spinal cord cancer. For children, the treatment does a better job of limiting damage to normal brain cells and reducing the risk of cognitive impairment and hearing loss. But -- fortunately -- fewer than 3,500 American children get these cancers each year. It is impossible to keep all nine existing proton beam centers in full use, much less the approximately 20 others in planning or construction, with so few patients.
To generate sufficient revenue, proton beam facilities need to treat patients with other types of cancer. Consequently, they have been promoted for patients with lung, esophageal, breast, head and neck cancers. But the biggest target by far has been prostate cancer, diagnosed in nearly a quarter of a million men each year.
There is no convincing evidence that proton beam therapy is as good as -- much less better than -- cheaper types of radiation for any one of these cancers. There has not been a single randomized trial, only small, short-term studies. Such trials cannot evaluate the therapy's long-term outcomes, nor resolve the concerns that some experts have raised regarding a potentially increased risk of hip fractures, bowel problems or other delayed effects associated with the therapy's treatment for prostate cancer.
So why is the venerable Mayo Clinic building two proton beam facilities? Because it's competing against Massachusetts General Hospital, M. D. Anderson in Texas, the University of Pennsylvania, Loma Linda in California -- all of which have one. With Medicare reimbursement so generous, and patients and doctors eager for the latest technology, building new machines is sane, profitable business for hospitals like Mayo.
But it is crazy medicine and unsustainable public policy.
One solution is for Medicare to simply refuse to pay for proton beam treatment except for diseases where there is valid evidence that it is clinically superior, as many private insurers do. This would certainly help keep costs down, and it would also encourage manufacturers and researchers to actually conduct studies comparing proton beam therapy to other treatments.
However, it is often difficult to begin clinical trials without some reimbursement for the treatment that is being studied. So a second option is ''coverage with evidence development.'' In this approach, Medicare would pay for proton beam treatment for patients with prostate and other cancers, but only if the patients were enrolled in a randomized trial that would compare the outcomes of their treatment to those from surgery, other kinds of radiation or active surveillance. Medicare has used this approach sparingly, but it should be applied to more cases like this one.
The most promising option is a new approach called dynamic pricing. Medicare would pay more for proton beam therapy, but only for diseases that are proven to be treated more effectively by the therapy than by other forms of radiation. For cancers like prostate, it would pay only what it pays for the cheaper alternatives. But if studies were done showing that proton beam therapy was better than other treatments, the payment would go up. If no studies were done, or the new evidence demonstrated no advantages, then coverage would continue, but at the lower reimbursement.
Of course hospitals could continue charging patients more for proton beam therapy, and patients who wanted the treatment could pay the difference themselves. But this should not be seen as unfair to those who can't afford it, because there are alternatives that are just as effective.
Everyone wants the best available care, especially for life-threatening diseases like cancer. But that doesn't mean Americans should pay exorbitant costs for treatments that can't be shown to be better than other, cheaper, options. If the United States is ever going to control our health care costs, we have to demand better evidence of effectiveness, and stop handing out taxpayer dollars with no questions asked.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JONATHON ROSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); PROSTATE DISEASE (89%); PROSTATE CANCER (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (88%); PEDIATRICS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (75%); PHYSICS (75%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (75%); BRAIN CANCER (75%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (73%); BRAIN (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: WALLS AS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



82 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Falling Behind

 BODY:
On Sunday, Washington became the first state to have a minimum wage above $9 an hour, $9.04 to be exact. Seven other states also had increases on New Year's Day because they, too, adjust their minimum wages to keep pace with rising costs. In Oregon, the hourly minimum rose to $8.80; in Colorado to $7.64, with the wages in Arizona, Florida, Montana, Ohio and Vermont in between. 
The federal minimum wage, however, remains stuck at $7.25 an hour. It has been so since 2009, and will stay there until Congress passes a law to lift it. Such raises are too few and far between; there have been only nine legislated increases since the first minimum wage -- .25 cents an hour -- was enacted in 1938.
Worse, the real value of the wage peaked in 1968, at a level that is roughly equivalent to $9.85 in 2011 dollars, and it has declined by more than 25 percent since then. States like Washington that protect their workers this way are to be commended. But the purpose of the minimum wage -- to reward work, reduce poverty and help ensure that economic growth is broadly shared -- would be better met if the federal government was again the standard setter. For a minimum wage to combat income inequality, it must apply to a large section of the labor force.
During the 2008 campaign, President Obama called for a minimum wage of $9.50 an hour, indexed to inflation. It is time to keep that promise, making a higher minimum wage part of any jobs agenda.
Republicans will inevitably complain that a higher wage will be a ''job killer.'' Studies have not been able to determine definitively whether the employment impact of a higher wage is positive or negative, just that it is small. Researchers at the Economic Policy Institute have shown that the increase in wages from a higher minimum is greater than any wage decreases because of fewer hours worked. At a time of increasing inequality, America's low-wage workers need a raise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



83 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Arbitration Award for Exxon Is Detailed

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Exxon Mobil could receive as much as $555 million in cash from the Venezuelan government as a result of an international arbitration ruling over the nationalization of the company's assets, according to details of the award made public on Monday. 
The arbitration award decided by the International Court of Arbitration, which is based in Paris, was valued at $907.6 million. In addition to the cash Exxon stands to receive, the oil giant will be released from the payment of debts totaling about $352 million. The ruling was dated Dec. 23, but Exxon said it did not receive the decision until Friday.
The Venezuelan government and Exxon both sought to portray themselves as victors in the arbitration, which stemmed from the 2007 nationalization of a heavy crude oil production project in the Orinoco Belt, considered one of the world's richest potential petroleum reserves.
Petroleos de Venezuela, the state-run oil company, released a statement on Monday saying that Exxon had sought a much larger compensation and that the arbitrator's conclusion showed that the company's claims were ''exorbitant'' and ''completely exaggerated and beyond all logic.''
The state oil company said that its ''successful defense'' in the case meant that it was required to make only a $255 million payment to Exxon.
But the state oil company's statement acknowledged that Exxon would also receive about $300 million in cash from bank accounts in the United States belonging to the state oil company; those accounts were frozen by a court ruling after the nationalization. Exxon said the frozen accounts contained $305 million.
The government statement said that Venezuela has always been willing to compensate private interests for the nationalization of assets as long as the compensation was ''fair and reasonable.''
In a statement Monday, Exxon said that the arbitration affirmed the state oil company's contractual liability in its agreements with Exxon over what was known as the Cerro Negro project.
''Contract sanctity and respect for the rule of law are core principles used to manage our business over the long term,'' Exxon said.
The nationalization of the Exxon project and other oil projects involving multinational corporations was a major step in a campaign of expropriations by the government of Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez.
Exxon and Venezuela are involved in a second arbitration over the same project before the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, part of the World Bank, which could increase the amount the company receives.
The country faces several other potential settlements with foreign companies over a spate of nationalizations that have taken place in recent years. One of those involves a project of the oil company Conoco Phillips, also in the Orinoco Belt.
The ruling appeared to lend weight to Venezuela's argument that it should compensate companies for the amount they had invested, the so-called book value, rather than the market value that an asset would receive if it were put up for sale.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil platform in 2011, built by the state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela, in the Orinoco Belt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMON SAHMKOW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (94%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); COP (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



84 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: World Markets Turn Higher

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
European stocks rallied on Monday, after manufacturing in Germany and China beat forecasts. French bonds fell before debt sales this week and the euro weakened.
The Stoxx Europe 600 index closed up 1.1 percent and the DAX index in Germany surged 3 percent. The Bovespa index in Brazil increased 1.9 percent. The markets in the United States, Britain and several other countries were closed Monday in observance of the New Year's holiday. 
The price of French 10-year bonds fell for a fourth day, pushing yields higher to 3.24 percent. France plans to sell 16.9 billion euros ($21.9 billion) of debt this week. France's CAC-40 index climbed 2 percent and benchmark indexes in Portugal and Italy increased at least 1.8 percent. The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers.
Gold touched the highest level in a week on reports that Iran had produced its first nuclear fuel rod, spurring investors to buy the precious metal as a haven. Spot prices gained as much as 3.2 percent to $1,613.40 an ounce in London, before trimming its gain to 0.2 percent and trading at $1,566.27.
Germany's purchasing managers index climbed to 48.4 last month, according to Markit Economics. A manufacturing gauge for China increased to 50.3, the Beijing-based logistics federation said Sunday.
''On the first day of the year, a lot of investors, having cleaned their portfolios, have liquidity to invest,'' said Arnaud Scarpaci, a fund manager at Agilis Gestion in Paris. ''Germany can be seen as a safe haven because it has stronger growth than other countries. People are investing in industries with a lot of visibility, such as utilities.''
Equities and commodities last week capped their worst annual returns since the financial crisis in 2008 amid concern that Europe's government debt crisis would weigh on global growth. The Stoxx 600 lost 11 percent in 2011, while the MSCI Asia-Pacific index slid 17 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed virtually unchanged, ending 2011 at 1,257.60, compared with its 2010 close of 1,257.64.
The direction of the S.& P. 500 in January has correctly foreshadowed whether stocks end the year higher or lower in 60 of the last 83 years, or about 72 percent of the time, according to an e-mail on Sunday from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P.
German bonds declined for the first time in five days, pushing 10-year yields up to 1.91 percent. The country will auction 5 billion euros of bonds due in 2022 on Wednesday.
Mexican stocks advanced, sending the benchmark Bolsa index up 0.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); EURO (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); SPOT MARKET (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PORTUGAL (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



85 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: The Grid at 200: Lines That Shaped Manhattan

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
In the old photograph, a lonely farmhouse sits on a rocky hill, shaded by tall trees. The scene looks like rural Maine. On the modern street, apartment buildings tower above trucks and cars passing a busy corner where an AMC Loews multiplex faces an overpriced hamburger joint and a Coach store.
They are both the same spot. Not so long ago, all things considered, the intersection of Broadway and 84th Street didn't exist; the area was farmland. ''The Greatest Grid: The Master Plan of Manhattan, 1811-2011,'' now at the Museum of the City of New York, unearths that 1879 picture of the Brennan Farm among other historic gems. The show celebrates the anniversary of what remains not just a landmark in urban history but in many ways the defining feature of the city.
After all, before it could rise into the sky, Manhattan had to create the streets, avenues and blocks that support the skyscrapers. The grid was big government in action, a commercially minded boon to private development and, almost despite itself, a creative template. With 21st-century problems -- environmental, technological, economic and social -- now demanding aggressive and socially responsible leadership, the exhibition is a kind of object lesson. 
Simeon De Witt, Gouverneur Morris and John Rutherfurd were entrusted with planning the city back in 1811. New York huddled mostly south of Canal Street, but it was booming, its population having tripled to 96,373 since 1790 thanks to the growing port. Civic boosters predicted that 400,000 people would live in the city by 1860. They turned out to be half-right. New York topped 800,000 before the Civil War.
The planners proposed a grid for this future city stretching northward from roughly Houston Street to 155th Street in the faraway heights of Harlem. It was in many respects a heartless plan. There were virtually no parks or plazas. The presumption was that people would gravitate east and west along the numbered streets to the rivers when they wanted open space and fresh air, and not spend lots of time moving north or south. That partly explains why there were only a dozen avenues.
In the abstract, the idea was really nothing revolutionary; grid plans went back to ancient Greece and Rome. But installing one in Manhattan was deeply subversive because, while still undeveloped, the island was already parceled into irregularly shaped, privately owned properties.
This meant the appropriation of land and reconstruction. First, Manhattan had to be surveyed, a task that took years. Property lines had to be redrawn, government mobilized for decades on end to enforce, open, grade and pave streets. Some 60 years passed before the grid arrived at 155th Street. Streets were still ''rough and ragged'' tracks for a long while, as one diarist observed in 1867, describing a recently opened stretch around 40th Street and Madison Avenue as a mess of ''mud holes, goats, pigs and geese.''
Even so, the grid gave the island a kind of monumentality and order.
Was it monotonous? Yes. Frederick Law Olmsted was among those who thought so. Other city plans are certainly more sophisticated (Paris) or elegant (Barcelona) or stately (Savannah, Ga.).
But New York's grid had its virtues. For one thing, it proved flexible enough to adapt when the city's orientation did shift north-south, flexible enough to accommodate Olmsted's Central Park, the genius of which lies in the contrast between its own irregularity and the regularity of the grid.
For another thing, the grid turned out to be, far beyond what anyone could have envisioned in 1811, a windfall for those same landowners who first opposed it, but then whose newly rejiggered lots on subdivided blocks came to be worth fortunes. New York property values boomed thanks to the grid, which effectively created the real estate market. In 1965 John Reps, an urban historian at Cornell, wrote in ''The Making of Urban America'' that the city commissioners ''were motivated mainly by narrow considerations of economic gain.'' Professor Reps thought they put money before aesthetics.
They did, but that view now seems a little uncharitable. Money and aesthetics aren't antithetical, and the grid has proved itself oddly beautiful.
I'm referring not just to the sociability it promotes, which Jane Jacobs identified, or to the density it allows, which Rem Koolhaas celebrates, or even to the ecological efficiency it sustains, which now makes New York, on a per-capita basis, a very green place. I'm also referring to a kind of awareness it encourages.
It's true that Manhattan lacks the elegant squares, axial boulevards and civic monuments around which other cities designed their public spaces. But it has evolved a public realm of streets and sidewalks that creates urban theater on the grandest level. No two blocks are ever precisely the same because the grid indulges variety, building to building, street to street.
Painters from Poussin to Seurat, Picasso to Mondrian, Pollock to Chuck Close have exploited the special power of grids to create order yet also highlight small differences. Manhattan's grid is not perfectly regular. Some blocks are longer than others. Some avenues are wider. Broadway cuts diagonally across six north-south streets, and those cuts have made room for public spaces (Union Square, Madison Square, Herald Square, Times Square, Columbus Circle, Verdi Square).
We feel all these shifts in the grid, alert to changes thanks to the expectation of sameness.
The grid also makes a complex place instantly navigable. This isn't a trivial benefit. Cities like Berlin and London, historic agglomerations of villages, include vast nowhere stretches, and they sprawl in ways that discourage easy comprehension and walking. An epicenter of diversity, Manhattan by contrast invites long walks, because walkers can judge distances easily and always know where they are. The grid binds the island just as New Yorkers are bound by a shared identity.
That is, the grid gives physical form to a certain democratic, melting-pot idea -- not a new concept, and probably not exactly what the planners had in mind, but worth restating. In the same way that tourists who come to Manhattan can easily grasp the layout and, as such, feel they immediately possess the city, outsiders who move here become New Yorkers simply by saying so. By contrast, an American can live for half a century in Rome or Hamburg or Copenhagen or Tokyo but never become Italian or German or Danish or Japanese. Anybody can become a New Yorker. The city, like its grid, exists to be adopted and made one's own.
Hilary Ballon, a professor of urban studies and architecture at New York University who organized the exhibition (running through April 15, adds that it even affects our daily behavior. ''We cross at corners with the grid,'' is her example. That's not quite the New York I know, but it's true that when we jaywalk or take shortcuts across plazas or stroll down Broadway, we are aware of violating the grid. The grid is the ego to our id.
And for the same reason we're conscious of the street wall, the regular line of building facades, so that when one building is set back and breaks that line, our equilibrium is disturbed. (See the erratic sidewalk of 57th Street.) Like the neighborhoods it circumscribes, the grid has its integrity.
''It would have been easier not to destabilize the landownership on the island,'' Ms. Ballon concludes in her introduction to the show's catalog. ''The commitment to prepare New York for the future sets an example for our times: do we have the capacity to address climate change, build 21st-century infrastructure and promote sustainable growth?''
That's the question. Put another way, the grid was a leap for government and private enterprise united by faith in urban development. It was also proof of how adaptable citizens, and cities, can be. Generations of humane and progressive New Yorkers lifted it from the drawing table to greatness. An equitable and just city today depends on a vigilant populace keeping tabs on our planners and politicians.
More and more people want to live in cities now. New York remains a model.
Can it live up to the grid?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The view south from Park Avenue and 94th Street around 1882, included in ''The Greatest Grid: The Master Plan of Manhattan, 1811 - 2011'' at the Museum of the City of New York. (A1)
Riverside Drive and 94th Street from 1890. Planners proposed a grid from roughly Houston Street to 155th Street.
A northern view from Park Avenue and 94th Street around 1882. The plan was flexible enough to adapt as the city developed.
 In the abstract the grid idea, above, was really nothing revolutionary, but installing one in Manhattan was deeply subversive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CLASSICS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MAINE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



86 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: New Laws Now Evaluated by Job Creation

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After years of judging the merits of federal laws by their costs or savings, Washington is applying a new yardstick: Will they create or destroy jobs?
When the American Public Transportation Association seeks more federal money, it argues that ''public transit projects will put people to work.'' Specifically, it says, ''Every $1 billion we invest in public transportation means 36,000 jobs.''
When Lockheed Martin lobbies for the F-35 joint strike fighter, it says the new plane will strengthen the economy by ''creating direct and indirect jobs for 127,000 Americans'' in 47 states. 
Health care lobbyists argue that cuts in Medicare and Medicaid take jobs away from nurses and other hospital employees. Tree farmers argue that cutting forest conservation programs will destroy ''good-paying rural jobs.''
With unemployment stubbornly high, jobs, it seems, can be used to justify anything and everything. But some economists and other critics say that the figures can be misleading as advocates cook up inflated estimates to make their case.
''Many economists think most of that is pretty silly,'' said David Card, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is president of the Society of Labor Economists. ''It's just a selling point. You can say anything, no matter what, creates jobs. I don't think people should pay much attention to it.''
Sometimes opposing sides offer the logic-defying claim that only their preferred outcome would be good for jobs. Republican lawmakers, for example, criticize new environmental regulations as job destroyers, but supporters of tougher clean air rules say they will create tens of thousands of jobs in pollution control industries.
Estimates of job creation or destruction often come from economic consultants hired by groups lobbying for or against a proposal. The impact can be magnified by including the indirect effects of a proposal on other parts of the economy.
Prof. John M. Abowd, a labor economist at Cornell, said that ''labor markets are hugely dynamic,'' with large numbers of jobs being created and destroyed even when the total level of employment stays roughly the same. For this reason, he said, it is often difficult to tell whether spending for a specific purpose directly creates jobs.
The wireless industry wants the government to free up more radio frequencies to meet consumer demand for mobile broadband. If allowed to use those frequencies, wireless companies say, they will spend billions of dollars on wireless networks, creating more than a half-million jobs.
Similar arguments are made for legislation to crack down on foreign Web sites that sell counterfeit goods and illegally copied music, movies, television shows and books.
Copyright, trademark and intellectual property rights may sound like obscure issues in the context of jobs. But a coalition of big companies, Creative America, frames its message to Congress in a way that politicians notice: ''Stop foreign Internet criminals from stealing our jobs.''
A coal-industry group, attacking power-plant rules proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency, says they would ''destroy over 180,000 jobs per year.'' The estimate comes from a study commissioned by the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, whose members include coal producers like Peabody Energy and Arch Coal.
Not to be outdone, companies that make scrubbers and other pollution-control equipment have their own trade association, the Institute of Clean Air Companies. They support many E.P.A. clean air standards. And they say that 1.5 million jobs will be created in the next five years as a result of the new requirements.
''These are good-paying American jobs for electricians, welders and engineers,'' the institute says.
The National Association of Letter Carriers, fighting a proposal to eliminate Saturday mail delivery, says it would not only degrade customer service, but also threaten millions of jobs at direct marketers, printing and publishing companies and other businesses in the mailing industry. New taxes are portrayed as job-killers, while tax breaks are defended as job creators.
To help reduce the deficit, President Obama recently proposed new fees and taxes that would raise $36 billion over 10 years from airlines and air passengers. The industry sums up its opposition in four words: ''Add Taxes. Lose Jobs.''
''Proposed airline taxes are a one-way ticket to the unemployment line for 181,000 Americans,'' says the Air Transport Association, a trade group for air carriers.
The National Association of Manufacturers tells Congress that higher energy taxes will lead to higher prices and ''millions of lost jobs.''
The new health care law levies many new taxes. Representative Erik Paulsen, Republican of Minnesota, is leading efforts to repeal one, on certain medical devices. The tax, he says, would ''eliminate more than 40,000 well-paying jobs.''
Republican candidates for president say the health law, with its requirement for many employers to provide insurance or improve benefits, puts millions of full-time jobs at risk.
On the contrary, Obama administration officials say, the law will preserve and create jobs in several ways: by providing tax credits to small businesses to make insurance more affordable; by increasing the demand for health care goods and services; and by providing billions of dollars to build community health centers and school clinics.
People often cite jobs in trying to keep their favorite tax breaks.
The National Farmers Union, lobbying for extension of tax credits for renewable energy, says, ''Wind energy creates jobs.'' Farmers often receive lease payments from wind energy companies that place wind turbines on their land.
A new study commissioned by the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group, says that extending a tax credit for wind energy would ''create and save 54,000 jobs,'' while expiration of the tax break as scheduled at the end of 2012 would cause the loss of 37,000 jobs.
Even tree farmers and their advocate, the American Forest Foundation, buttress their case by arguing that trees mean jobs.
Fearing that Congress will cut forest conservation programs in the 2012 farm bill, the foundation tells lawmakers, ''Every square mile of private forest land supports five American jobs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (83%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MEDICARE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MEDICAID (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); TRADEMARKS (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (64%); BROADBAND (60%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (60%); MUSIC (60%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



87 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PROFILES IN SCIENCE ERIC LANDER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2269 words

PERSON: Eric Lander 

HEADLINE: Power in Numbers

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- His Ph.D. is in pure mathematics, in a subfield so esoteric and specialized that even if someone gets a great result, it can be appreciated by only a few dozen people in the entire world. But he left that world behind and, with no formal training, entered another: the world of molecular biology, medicine and genomics.
As founding director of the Broad Institute of Harvard and M.I.T., he heads a biology empire and raises money from billionaires. He also teaches freshman biology (a course he never took) at M.I.T., advises President Obama on science and runs a lab.
Eric Lander -- as a friend, Prof. David Botstein of Princeton, put it -- knows how to spot and seize an opportunity when one arises. And he has another quality, says his high school friend Paul Zeitz: bravery combined with optimism. 
''He was super smart, but so what?'' said Dr. Zeitz, now a mathematics professor at the University of San Francisco. ''Pure intellectual heft is like someone who can bench-press a thousand pounds. But so what, if you don't know what to do with it?''
Eric Lander, he added, knew what to do. And he knew how to carry out strong ideas about where progress in medicine will come from -- large interdisciplinary teams collaborating rather than single researchers burrowed in their labs.
So how did he end up at the Broad Institute, going from the most solitary of sciences to forging new sorts of collaborations in a field he never formally studied? What sort of person can make that journey?
Dr. Lander's story can be told as a linear narrative of lucky breaks and perfect opportunities. But he doesn't subscribe to that sort of magical thinking. To him, biography is something of a confection: ''You live your life prospectively and tell your story retrospectively, so it looks like everything is converging.''
Yet given that limitation to recreating a personal history, Dr. Lander's story is, at the very least, unusual.
A Math Club Standout
Now 54, Eric Steven Lander grew up in Flatlands, a working-class neighborhood in Brooklyn, raised by his mother -- his father died of multiple sclerosis when Eric was 11.
''Nobody in the neighborhood was a scientist,'' Dr. Lander said. ''Very few had gone to college.''
His life changed when he took an entrance exam and was accepted at the elite Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan. He joined the math team and loved it -- the esprit de corps, the competition with other schools, the social aspect of being on the team.
''I found other kids, ninth graders, who also loved math and loved having fun,'' he said.
He was so good that he was chosen for the American team in the 1974 Mathematics Olympiad. To prepare, the team spent a summer training at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J.
This was the first time the United States had entered the competition, and the coaches were afraid the team would be decimated by entrants from Communist countries. (Indeed, the Soviet Union placed first, but the Americans came in second, just ahead of Hungary, which was known for its mathematics talent.)
Dr. Zeitz was Dr. Lander's roommate that summer. The two recall being the only teammates who did not come from affluent suburban families, and who did not have fathers. But Eric stood out for other reasons.
''He was outgoing,'' Dr. Zeitz recalled. ''He was, compared to the rest of us, definitely more ambitious. He was enthusiastic about everything. And he had a real charisma.'' Team members decided that Dr. Lander was the only one among them whom they could imagine becoming a United States senator one day.
At first, though, it looked as if the young mathematician would follow a traditional academic path. He went to Princeton, majoring in mathematics but also indulging a passion for writing. He took a course in narrative nonfiction with the author John McPhee and wrote for the campus newspaper.
He graduated as valedictorian at age 20, won a Rhodes scholarship, went to Oxford and earned a mathematics Ph.D. there in record time -- two years. Yet he was unsettled by the idea of spending the rest of his life as a mathematician.
''I began to appreciate that the career of mathematics is rather monastic,'' Dr. Lander said. ''Even though mathematics was beautiful and I loved it, I wasn't a very good monk.'' He craved a more social environment, more interactions.
''I found an old professor of mine and said, 'What can I do that makes some use of my talents?' '' He ended up at Harvard Business School, teaching managerial economics.
He had never studied the subject, he confesses, but taught himself as he went along. ''I learned it faster than the students did,'' Dr. Lander said.
Yet at 23, he was growing restless, craving something more challenging. Managerial economics, he recalled, ''wasn't deep enough.''
He spoke to his brother, Arthur, a neurobiologist, who sent him mathematical models of how the cerebellum worked. The models ''seemed hokey,'' Dr. Lander said, ''but the brain was interesting.''
His appetite for biology whetted, he began hanging around a fruit-fly genetics lab at Harvard. A few years later, he talked the business school into giving him a leave of absence.
He told Harvard he would go to M.I.T., probably to learn about artificial intelligence. Instead, he ended up spending his time in Robert Horvitz's worm genetics lab. And that led to the spark that changed his life.
Making the Leap
It was 1983, and while Dr. Lander was hanging around the worm lab, Dr. Botstein, at the time a professor at M.I.T., was growing increasingly frustrated. He had spent five fruitless years looking for someone who knew mathematics to take on a project involving traits like high blood pressure that were associated with multiple genes. For these diseases, the old techniques for finding traits caused by single genes would not work.
''I literally went around looking for someone who could help,'' Dr. Botstein said. Finally, at a conference, another biologist said, ''There's this fellow, Lander, at Harvard Business School who wanted to do something with biology.''
Dr. Botstein hunted Dr. Lander down at a seminar at M.I.T., and pounced. The two connected immediately. ''We went to a whiteboard,'' Dr. Lander said, ''and started arguing.''
Within a week, Dr. Lander had solved the problem. Then the two researchers invented a computer algorithm to analyze maps of genes in minutes instead of months. Soon, Dr. Lander had immersed himself in problems of mapping human disease genes.
He had long discussions with Dr. Botstein about the future of human genomics. It was a time, Dr. Botstein said, ''when talk of sequencing the human genome was just beginning to get traction.'' Dr. Lander wanted to know if there was any use for a mathematician in biology, and Dr. Botstein, who knew the challenges ahead, assured him there was.
''He had a sufficiently high opinion of himself,'' Dr. Botstein said. ''He thought that if anyone could do it, he could. He took a chance and dropped his Harvard job. It was clear that teaching economics would no longer be his career path.''
David Baltimore, a Nobel laureate who was then the head of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research at M.I.T., was taken with Dr. Lander's passion and abilities. He enabled Dr. Lander to become a fellow there and then an assistant professor in 1986.
That same year, Dr. Lander went to a meeting at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island where leading scientists held the first public debate on the idea of mapping the human genome. Dr. Lander raised his hand and joined the discussion, impressing the others so much they invited him into their circle.
''It is very easy to be an expert in a new field where there are no experts,'' Dr. Lander said. ''All you have to do is raise your hand.''
Meanwhile, Dr. Botstein and Dr. Baltimore wrote to the MacArthur Foundation recommending Dr. Lander for a ''genius'' grant. He received it in 1987. He was 30.
''I tried to help him over the years in realizing his dreams.'' Dr. Baltimore said. ''And he's been very successful in making that happen.''
Soon, Dr. Lander had become a central figure in the effort to sequence the human genome, leading the largest of the three centers that did most of the work. He combined his mathematics and the biology and chemistry he'd learned hanging out in labs. And he added insights about industrial organization, achieved in his business school days, to streamline the effort and control costs.
What he loved most about the work was the community he had craved, the team effort he had been searching for.
Even before the Human Genome Project ended, Dr. Lander was thinking of how to keep what he saw as a wonderful collaboration among scientists going. There were, by his count, about 65 collaborations among young scientists in Cambridge and Boston, all outside the usual channels.
''Something magical had happened,'' Dr. Lander said. ''People were coming together and taking on really bold problems.''
It may have had something to do with Dr. Lander's personality. Gus Cervini, an administrator at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston who worked for him for four years, used to call him ''the sun.''
''He has this amazing influence or power on people,'' Mr. Cervini said. ''He had this ability to get people to really think big.
''When the sun shines on you, you feel like you can do anything.''
Persistence Rewarded
That power may have helped when Dr. Lander approached the presidents of Harvard and M.I.T. and proposed creating a permanent institute to continue the collaborative process that groups of scientists had been improvising. At first, he met with resistance, but he persisted.
Then Dr. Baltimore introduced him to the philanthropists Eli and Edythe Broad, who had made their fortune in real estate. The Broads (the name rhymes with code) visited Dr. Lander's lab one Saturday morning in October 2002. A few months later, they agreed to invest $10 million a year for a decade, so Dr. Lander could start what he thought of as an experiment with a new kind of research institute.
The Broad Institute was to become a joint effort between Harvard and M.I.T., headed by Dr. Lander, that would encourage scientists to collaborate to solve big problems in biology, genetics and genomics.
Within 18 months, the Broads doubled their gift, to $200 million. In 2008, they contributed another $400 million as an endowment to make the institute permanent. Today the institute has about 1,800 collaborating scientists from the two universities and Harvard's hospitals.
Its aims sound audacious: ''Assemble a complete picture of the molecular components of life. Define the biological circuits that underlie cellular responses. Uncover the molecular basis of major inherited diseases. Unearth all the mutations that underlie different cancer types. Discover the molecular basis of major infectious diseases. Transform the process of therapeutic discovery and development.''
''Half the place is devoted to finding the basis of disease and half is devoted to trying to transform and accelerate the development of therapeutics,'' Dr. Lander said. ''It's different from what you find in many university settings where you have many labs, each of whom does its own thing.''
The Broad is an experiment, Dr. Lander said, one that involves an institution and how to do scientific research. ''This is in a sense a protected space to see if it works,'' Dr. Lander said.
The institute is Dr. Lander's passion, but hardly his only one. His days start and end in a gym on the second floor of his house, where he has an elliptical cross-trainer. He uses it for two 40-minute sessions, one in the morning and one at night, watching Netflix videos and burning -- according to the machine -- 1,000 calories a day. He reports that he lost 42 pounds last summer without changing his diet.
They bought the place, a converted schoolhouse, when his wife, Lori Lander, who is an artist, pointed out that it had a basketball court on the top floor -- it could be a kind of neighborhood hangout, so the Landers would always know where their three children were.
After his morning workout, he sometimes goes to a local bakery where he can work quietly. He arrives at the Broad between 8 and 10 a.m. In the fall, he teaches introductory biology to a class of 700 M.I.T. students on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings. He often meets with graduate students and postdoctoral fellows in the afternoon to discuss their work.
Then he has his administrative duties and his meetings with philanthropists, trying to raise more money. He also spends 20 percent of his time in yet another role, as co-chairman of President Obama's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology, which deals with topics like influenza vaccines, health information technology, science education and energy policy.
In the evening, around 6:30 or 7, he has dinner with his family. His wife cooks -- Dr. Lander loves to cook but says he just does not have time.
He also reads -- fiction, nonfiction, New Yorker articles -- but has no patience with poor writing.
''I am very eclectic in my reading, but it has to be really well written,'' he said. ''That's a huge barrier.''
On weekends he and his wife try to get to New York for the theater, another of his passions.
And he marvels at how his life has turned out. ''I feel like it's so incredibly lucky to end up here,'' he said. ''I could not have planned this. What if I hadn't met David Botstein? What if I hadn't gone to a meeting where the human genome was discussed? I have no idea. This is as random as it gets.
''It's a very weird career.''
Profiles In Science: This is the sixth article in a series about leaders in science.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
AN EXPERIMENT: Eric Lander at the Broad Institute of Harvard and M.I.T., a research powerhouse that he founded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FIRST PLACE: Front and center, victorious at the 1974 Science Talent Search. The same year he made the American team in the Mathematics Olympiad.(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); WEIGHTLIFTING (72%); BIOCHEMISTRY (71%); GENOMICS (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%)

BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



88 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: A Gathering Storm

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- Nearly a year after legislatures in Wisconsin and several other Republican-dominated states curbed the power of public sector unions, lawmakers are now turning their sights toward private sector unions, setting up what is sure to be another political storm.
The thunderclouds are gathering first here in Indiana. The leaders of the Republican-controlled Legislature say that when the legislative session opens on Wednesday, their No. 1 priority will be to push through a business-friendly piece of legislation known as a right-to-work law.
If Indiana enacts such a law -- and its sponsors say they have the votes -- it will give new momentum to those who have previously pushed such legislation in Maine, Michigan, Missouri and other states. New Hampshire's Republican-controlled Legislature was the last to pass a right-to-work bill in 2011, but it narrowly failed to muster the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto by the Democratic governor; an Indiana law would re-energize that effort.
Right-to-work laws prohibit union contracts at private sector workplaces from requiring employees to pay any dues or other fees to the union. In states without such laws, workers at unionized workplaces generally have to pay such dues or fees. 
Many right-to-work supporters say it is morally wrong to force unwilling workers to contribute to unions, while opponents argue that it is wrong to allow ''free riders'' not to support the unions that represent them in negotiations and arbitrations.
Right-to-work is also a potent political symbol that carries serious financial consequences for unions. Corporations view such laws as an important sign that a state has policies friendly to business. Labor leaders say that allowing workers to opt out of paying any money to the union that represents them weakens unions' finances, bargaining clout and political power.
Organized labor has vowed to fight the Indiana bill, which it says would turn the state into the ''Mississippi of the Midwest.'' If the legislation passes, Indiana would become the first state to have such a law within the traditional manufacturing belt, a union stronghold that stretches from the Midwest to New England. Right-to-work laws exist in 22 states, almost all in the South and West, with Oklahoma the most recent to pass one, in 2001.
Right-to-work supporters say they can win quick passage because Indiana's Republican governor, Mitch Daniels, backs the bill and Republicans have large majorities in the House and Senate.
Democratic and union leaders say they hope to block the legislation, in part by flooding the statehouse with thousands of protesters -- exactly as unions did last year in Wisconsin, Ohio and Indiana in an attempt to defeat legislation that limited bargaining rights for public sector workers. Democratic lawmakers in Indiana have also hinted that they might once again flee to Illinois, as they did last year, to block votes on anti-union bills.
Indiana's Republican leaders are eager to pass the bill -- and end any related commotion -- before Feb. 5, when the national spotlight turns to Indianapolis for the Super Bowl.
In heading the legislative push, Brian C. Bosma, the Republican speaker of the Indiana House, argues that not being right-to-work is a big handicap when Indiana competes for jobs.
''Local economic development officers testified that 25 to 50 percent of companies looking to create employment, whether through expansion or locating a new facility, just took Indiana and other non-right-to-work states off the table,'' he said in an interview. ''This is stopping employers from coming to Indiana. We need to deal with that.''
Kevin Brinegar, president of the Indiana Chamber of Commerce, praised the bill as a low-cost way to improve the business climate. ''It's not like we're going to spend a billion dollars on tax incentives,'' he said. ''It's free.''
But opponents say the talk of improving Indiana's business climate is just a pretext.
''It's a political attack on what the Republicans see as one of their main opponents -- organized labor,'' said Jim Robinson, the top United Steelworkers official in Indiana. ''They want to weaken unions to help assure continued Republican majorities.''
In Indiana, 8.2 percent -- or 178,779 -- of the state's private sector workers belong to unions, compared with 6.9 percent nationwide. That is down from more than 20 percent three decades ago as many unionized factories have closed and largely nonunion industries like finance and retail have expanded.
After Governor Daniels eliminated the ability of state employees to bargain collectively in 2005, Indiana's public sector unions grew weaker. Over all, organized labor here does not have nearly the electoral or lobbying clout that it has in states like California and New York, where unions remain powerful.
Thomas McKenna, who headed Indiana's Department of Commerce under a Democratic governor, said it was absurd for the bill's supporters to suggest that even one-quarter of companies ruled out Indiana simply because it does not have right-to-work status.
He said that the legislation's supporters had repeatedly refused to cite the name of any company that has taken that position. ''I think they're making it up,'' he said.
Many studies have assessed the impact of right-to-work legislation, although much of the research is from years ago, when right-to-work was a hotter issue.
Henry Farber, a labor economist at Princeton, said right-to-work laws, by allowing ''free riders,'' shrink union treasuries. One study found that the portion of free riders in right-to-work states ranged from 9 percent in Georgia to 39 percent in South Dakota.
In another study, David T. Ellwood, the dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and Glenn A. Fine, a former Justice Department official, found that in the five years after states enacted such legislation, the number of unionization drives dropped by 28 percent, and in the following five years by an added 12 percent. Organizing wins fell by 46 percent in the first five years and 30 percent the next five. Over all, they found, right-to-work laws, beyond other factors, caused union membership to drop 5 percent to 10 percent.
The Indiana Chamber of Commerce said that if Indiana had become right-to-work in 1977, its per capita income would be $2,925 higher because more factories and jobs would have come to the state. Richard Vedder, an Ohio University economist and the main author of the chamber's study, said economic growth had been faster in the 22 right-to-work states and the law was a major cause.
Martin Wolfson, a Notre Dame economist, disputed those findings. He disagreed that right-to-work laws increase incomes, and said there were other, more important causes for right-to-work states' faster economic growth, including the boom in oil prices and the influx of immigrants into Texas and Florida.
A recent study by the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-backed research center, found that in right-to-work states, wages were 3.2 percent, or $1,500, lower per worker each year, after accounting for the cost of living and other factors.
John Sampson, president of the Northeast Indiana Regional Partnership, an economic development group, said companies were attracted to right-to-work states not because of lower wages but because the weakened role of unions means that companies get greater operating flexibility, which lowers their costs.
''Some people will say this is about bashing organized labor,'' Mr. Sampson added. ''From my point of view, there's nothing better for labor than to create increased demand for jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brian C. Bosma, the speaker of the Indiana House, says the state is at a disadvantage when competing for jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A.J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Thomas McKenna, who spent five years as the head of the Indiana Department of Commerce under a Democratic governor, is an opponent of right-to-work laws. Top, a protest at Indiana's statehouse last February over collective bargaining. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY A.J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOM STRATTMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (64%)

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (99%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



89 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: BP Tries to Shift Costs From Spill

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
BP said in a court filing on Monday that all of its costs and damages from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill should be paid by Halliburton, its cement contractor for the Macondo well project. 
BP paid more than $21 billion in cleanup costs and economic damages as of Dec. 1, the company said on its Web site.
BP and Halliburton accuse each other's employees of making critical mistakes that caused the blowout in the well off the Louisiana coast in 2010.
BP owned the Macondo lease, and Halliburton provided well-completion services for the project. The two jointly face more than 500 lawsuits, which have been combined for pretrial processing in federal court in New Orleans, where a judge is scheduled to begin a trial in February to determine liability for the spill.
Halliburton, based in Houston, has said in court papers that its cementing-services contract requires BP to indemnify it from all damage claims, even if its employees were found to have shared blame for the disaster. Halliburton has said in court filings that the actions of BP's employees caused the explosion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (78%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); OIL SPILLS (72%); WEB SITES (56%)

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (95%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (95%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (95%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (95%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



90 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: The Need for Vaccinations

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''For the Herd's Sake, Vaccinate,'' by Steven L. Weinreb (Op-Ed, Dec. 28): 
Those who refuse to be vaccinated are part of a new generation that never experienced, as mine did, going to school with scores of classmates being ravaged by polio and other deadly or life-altering childhood diseases. They therefore believe that the past was simpler, better and more wholesome and advocate for ''natural'' remedies and things like unpasteurized milk.
Without a major educational campaign, this country will experience a health crisis as large as the current financial crisis, which in part was also brought on by a new generation that forgot, or never learned, the lessons of the Great Depression.
LOUIS ERLANGER Brattleboro, Vt., Dec. 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); MILK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



91 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: In Greece's Sour Economy, Some Shops Are Thriving

BYLINE: By NIKI KITSANTONIS

 BODY:
ATHENS -- With all the contraction in the Greek economy, with employees laid off en masse and one in four small businesses forced to close, it might seem odd that new shops are springing up like mushrooms in Athens and other cities.
But the stores -- pawnshops and gold dealers -- are thriving as Greeks who are short of cash give up jewelry and other valuables to make ends meet and pay new taxes. The authorities reported a veritable explosion in the sector, with 90 percent of the nation's 224 officially registered pawnshops having opened in the past year. 
While these entrepreneurs insist that their services are legitimate, the Greek authorities contend that many of the shops are concealing a rapidly expanding illicit trade in gold, and that much of it is being smuggled out of the debt-racked country, confounding efforts to curb rampant tax evasion.
Similar trends have been reported in other countries that were hit by recession. In the United States and Britain, weakening economies and turmoil in credit markets have helped gold dealers thrive. A decade ago, the same happened in Argentina, after its economic meltdown.
In Greece, new outlets are springing up on streets where bankrupt stores have been boarded up. Competing with old-school pawnbrokers who work out of tiny stores on side streets, the new professionals lease central locations, taking advantage of falling rents. They advertise in newspapers and on television, and slip promotional leaflets under doors and on car windshields. Many also accept cars, yachts and real estate from Greeks no longer able to finance affluent lifestyles.
Many jewelers have joined in, putting placards in their windows reading ''I buy gold.'' And there are signs of foreign interest. One Italian jewelry wholesaler, which has opened several franchises in Greece, accepts gold teeth as well as jewelry in exchange for cash.
Although most traders are reluctant to talk, those who do say they are just seizing an opportunity created by hard times and the high price of gold, roughly $1,600 an ounce.
''Gold is strong -- so there's a lot of interest in selling,'' said Yiannis Spiratos, manager of a pawnshop in central Athens. ''We're just serving that interest.''
He said that 8 in 10 customers sold their goods outright, rather than pawning them. ''Some sell their jewelry because they never wear it; many say they need the money to pay the emergency tax,'' he said, referring to a new tax on property owners.
Outside his shop, a smartly dressed middle-aged woman said she had just sold some earrings and her husband's gold watch. ''He couldn't do it; he was too embarrassed,'' said the woman, who gave her name only as Anna. She said she had made around $1,500 from the sale, after visiting four other shops for quotes.
With an increasing number of Greeks considering cashing in their jewelry or family heirlooms, the country's consumer protection agency recently published guidelines to protect people from unscrupulous dealers. It warns against traders promising particularly high prices and advises consumers to weigh their jewelry at home or to have it assayed at a laboratory run by the national association of goldsmiths. The warning followed a government order for stricter inspections of gold dealers to ensure they are licensed and operating legally.
''The crisis is an opportunity for many, and that's O.K. as long as it's legal,'' said Nikos Lekkas, the head of inspections at the Financial and Economic Crime Unit of the Ministry of Finance.
But although most gold dealers obtain the required operating license from the police, few keep a log of their transactions, as the law dictates. Inspections of pawnshops and gold dealers in Athens indicated that 80 percent were guilty of tax evasion, depriving the government of millions, and possibly billions, of euros in lost revenue, according to the financial crime unit.
Tax evasion remains one of the biggest drains on the Greek state, accounting for about $58 billion annually, or 13 percent of gross domestic product. That remains a sore point with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which have lent Greece billions of euros to avert a default that could be catastrophic for the euro zone.
Inspections by the financial crime unit suggest that some shops are fronts for illegitimate businesses shipping large quantities of gold out of the country illegally. In one recent raid, the police stopped a car near the western port of Patra that was carrying a half ton of silver bars, but no official documents.
The authorities traced the cargo to a pawnshop near Syntagma Square, in the heart of Athens. They said the shop had shipped, in a separate delivery, an eighth of a ton of gold bars to Germany, worth an estimated $8.72 million, again without documents. Investigators said they also traced six Cypriot and German offshore companies to pawnshops and gold dealers in Greece.
There are also signs that some pawnshops are receiving stolen goods, particularly jewelry, which is hard to trace because it is quickly sold or melted down in foundries.
Most pawnshops deny working with foundries. The foundries themselves -- whose number tripled during the last year, with 10 now operating in the Athens area -- were tight-lipped. Several denied that they worked with gold and none were listed as doing so in Greek directories.
Some financial experts say the trade is much like any other, some of it legal and some not, with the only difference being the higher value of gold.
''Since the beginning of time, people have melted down or sold their jewelry when the need arises,'' said Babis Papadimitriou, an economics commentator. ''This is what Greeks are doing now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JEWELRY WHOLESALERS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (93%) GREECE (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



92 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Storehouses for Solar Energy Can Step In When the Sun Goes Down

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
If solar energy is eventually going to matter -- that is, generate a significant portion of the nation's electricity -- the industry must overcome a major stumbling block, experts say: finding a way to store it for use when the sun isn't shining.
That challenge seems to be creating an opening for a different form of power, solar thermal, which makes electricity by using the sun's heat to boil water. The water can be used to heat salt that stores the energy until later, when the sun dips and households power up their appliances and air-conditioning at peak demand hours in the summer.
Two California companies are planning to deploy the storage technology: SolarReserve, which is building a plant in the Nevada desert scheduled to start up next year, and BrightSource, which plans three plants in California that would begin operating in 2016 and 2017. Together, the four projects will be capable of powering tens of thousand of households throughout a summer evening. 
Whether the technology will be widely adopted remains to be seen, but companies like Google, Chevron and Good Energies are investing in it, and the utilities NV Energy and Southern California Edison have signed long-term contracts to buy power from these radically different new power plants.
One crucial role of the plants will be complementing solar panels, which produce electricity directly from sunlight. When the panels ramp down at dusk or on cloudy days, the plants will crank up, drawing on the stored thermal energy.
That job will become more important if photovoltaic panels, which have plunged in price lately, become even cheaper and sprout on millions of rooftops. As the grid starts depending more heavily on solar panels or wind turbines, it will need other energy sources that can step in quickly to balance the system -- preferably ones classified as renewable.
Most utilities are trying to generate as many kilowatt-hours of renewable energy as they can to meet stiffer state requirements on incorporating more alternative energy, said Kevin B. Smith, the chief executive of SolarReserve.
''As we move forward, we'll get more and more traction with the fact we can provide more capacity,'' Mr. Smith said, referring to his company's storage technology.
The Energy Department seems to agree: in September it gave SolarReserve a $737 million loan guarantee for its project in Nevada. The plant will generate 110 megawatts at peak and store enough heat to run for eight to 10 hours when the sun is not shining.
The public's view on loan guarantees for solar projects has soured somewhat since the bankruptcy of Solyndra, a California company that received a $535 million loan guarantee to build a factory to make solar panels -- only to see the market for the modules crash.
But the outlook has always been clearer for companies that make electricity, which, unlike solar modules, is generally presold by contract.
Technical details of the SolarReserve and BrightSource plants vary slightly, but both will use thousands of computer-operated poster-size mirrors aiming sunlight at a tower that absorbs it as heat.
SolarReserve absorbs the heat in molten salt, which can be used immediately to boil water, generating steam that turns a conventional turbine and generator. Hot salt can also be used to retain the heat for many hours for later use. BrightSource heats water that can be used immediately as steam or to heat salt for storage.
The plants rely on salt because it can store far more heat than water can. But once molten, it must be kept that way or it will freeze to a solid in part of the plant where it will be difficult to melt again. ''You've made a commitment to those salt molecules,'' said John Woolard, the chief executive of BrightSource.
The technology is not complicated, but the economics are.
The simplest, least expensive path for solar thermal is to turn the heat into electricity immediately. But the companies are a bit like the farmer who harvests the grain and stores it in a silo rather than shipping it straight to market on the expectation that prices will be higher later. They are betting that in revenue terms, the hour at which the energy is delivered will be more important than the amount generated.
The notion is that widespread adoption of solar panels -- whether on rooftops or in giant arrays in the desert -- will change the hours at which prices are highest.
Today, electricity prices usually peak in the late afternoon and evening on hot summer days. ''Photovoltaic panels will do a pretty good job of chopping that peak'' in the late afternoon, said Paul Denholm, a solar specialist at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo.
In other words, the new price peak will be pushed to later in the day, to just before and after sunset, when solar photovoltaic production is small or nonexistent, he and other experts say.
Mr. Woolard said the chief goal of the new plants would be to produce electricity when the utilities need it most. ''We're optimizing around what is important for different times for the utilities,'' he said.
His company's contract with Southern California Edison still requires approval by California regulators.
Adding storage capacity helps keep the air-conditioners humming when solar panels are not producing, but there are other financial benefits.
The equipment that makes electricity from steam is the most expensive part of a solar thermal system, but if it is connected to storage technology, it can run almost twice as many hours as a plant without storage. That means the unit cost of electricity drops.
Another has to do with the arcane economics of electricity. A utility must assure a supply of electricity in two forms: energy and capacity. The difference has never meant much to most consumers, who directly pay only for energy, as measured in kilowatt-hours.
But capacity, the dependable ability to produce power, is becoming more important as renewable energy forms a larger and larger part of the grid.
Wind and sun provide a lot of energy but not much capacity. Today, backup capacity for wind and solar power comes in the form of expensive gas-fired generators, which sit idle most of the year but operate when the wind stops blowing or the sun stops shining.
Storage could cut costs by 4 cents a kilowatt-hour, Mr. Denholm calculates -- a considerable benefit for a commodity that retails for an average of 11 cents. A big part of the savings is not having to build the gas-fired generators for backup.
For competitive reasons, neither BrightSource nor SolarReserve would discuss capital costs. But Mr. Smith of SolarReserve said that the storage technology amounted to less than 5 percent of capital costs. For BrightSource, Southern California Edison was willing to pay extra for a plant that could deliver when the sun was not shining.
The success of any given project may depend on the particular details, but other experts agree that a market is opening for plants with storage capacity. A study completed in July by Navigant Consulting, Sandia National Laboratories and Pacific Northwest Laboratory on the potential effects of adding large amounts of photovoltaic energy to NV Energy's portfolio found that to integrate the new power sources, the utility would need more standby generation.
NV Energy would also need generation whose output could be adjusted over very short intervals to compensate for variability in solar photovoltaic production, the report suggested. The solar thermal storage system is designed to meet exactly those needs.

CORRECTION-DATE:  January 5, 2012; January 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misidentified the Colorado city where the National Renewable Energy Laboratory maintains offices as Boulder, rather than Golden.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about technology to store the output of solar power plants misstated, in some copies, the given name of the chief executive of BrightSource, which plans to deploy the technology in some solar plants in California. He is John Woolard, not Paul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A completed solar power tower at the SolarReserve Crescent Dunes Solar Energy Plant, Tonopah, Nev., expected to be in service in 2013. (B1)
 An artist's rendering of the SolarReserve plant, which will absorb heat directed at it by mirrors and store it in molten salt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOLARRESERVE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (87%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); WIND ENERGY (58%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (58%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); NV ENERGY INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: NVE (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



93 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: A Wage Bill's Effect on Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Living Wage, Long Overdue'' (editorial, Dec. 26) did not mention New York City's own failed experience with a so-called living-wage law: the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. 
Rather than a bustling retail center creating thousands of jobs, the armory sits embarrassingly empty after politicians demanded wage requirements more than two years ago. Today, no serious plan is in sight for Kingsbridge, and the community is deprived of good jobs.
While the wage bill before the City Council is well intentioned, Kingsbridge shows that it will result in fewer jobs for New Yorkers when job creation should be our No. 1 focus. It also unfairly increases costs for retailers and other tenants who do the right thing by investing in vulnerable neighborhoods but, unlike developers, receive no financial incentives from the city.
The Kingsbridge Armory is Exhibit 1 in the debate about wage mandates in New York City.
NANCY PLOEGER President Manhattan Chamber of Commerce New York, Dec. 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING WAGE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



94 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: On Wall St., A Renewed Optimism For Deals

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Before Europe's debt crisis flared anew last summer, rattling markets and choking off a revival in mergers and acquisitions, huge corporate cash piles and cheap debt had fostered hopes that deal-making would recover strongly last year.
In the first half of 2011, the dollar volume of announced mergers worldwide neared its highest levels since the financial crisis. But that momentum proved fragile as deal volume tumbled 19 percent, to about $1.1 trillion, in the second half of 2011, compared with the same period the year before, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Now, with stock and credit markets steadier, deal makers are growing confident that 2012 will be better for business. Not only do they point to cheap financing and the large amounts of cash on corporate balance sheets, but they say that companies that have already cut costs may decide that they need to make acquisitions to drive growth in the face of a tepid economy.
''The dialogue has gotten back on track,'' said Steven Baronoff, chairman of global mergers and acquisitions at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. ''If Europe doesn't go off the rails, you'll see a return to long-term positive factors.'' 
According to a recent study by Ernst & Young, 36 percent of companies plan to pursue an acquisition this year.
''We're optimistic that the need and desire for growth will overcome the volatility headwinds, but that's where the battle will be waged,'' said Jim Woolery, J. P. Morgan's co-head of North America mergers and acquisitions.
And there is pent-up demand among buyout shops. After a long stretch of tempered activity, many private equity firms are still feeling the pressure to deploy capital or engineer exits.
Still, companies that explore potential deals will most likely tread cautiously. For one, it remains unclear whether European leaders have done enough to ensure that the financial system remains stable on the Continent. And in the United States, 2012 is a presidential election year. With the White House at stake, companies in businesses like finance and health care may not pursue transactions until the outlook for regulation in those industries is clearer.
Many bankers expect to see notable deal activity in energy, industrials, retail, health care and technology. The energy and health care industries produced some of the largest transactions of 2011, like Express Scripts' $34.3 billion purchase of Medco Health Solutions, Duke Energy's $25.9 billion takeover of Progress Energy and Kinder Morgan's $36.2 billion deal for the El Paso Corporation.
The outlook for mergers and acquisitions worldwide varies sharply by region, bankers say. The Americas, where deal volume rose 14.7 percent in 2011, will remain a bright spot, according to Mr. Baronoff of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Opinion is more divided over Europe, however. While economic and market woes will lead to some bargains and opportunities, deal-making may still be largely stifled by the persistent sovereign debt crisis.
''Europe is still a mess,'' said David A. DeNunzio, vice chairman of Credit Suisse's mergers and acquisitions group. ''People thought there would be more divestiture activity as companies try to get more liquid, but that hasn't happened yet.''
The disparities among regional economies is expected to fuel more cross-border transactions in 2012. While it is not a new trend for United States businesses to seek growth in emerging markets, bankers are starting to see a reverse in deal flow. After a string of strong quarters, cash-rich corporations in markets like Brazil and China are now bargain-hunting for established brands in developed markets.
''We weren't having these conversations even three years ago,'' said Mr. DeNunzio, who expects an increase of 10 to 15 percent in cross-border transactions.
''Many companies in China and Brazil see this as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to acquire world-scale brands at pretty attractive prices,'' he said.
At the same time, companies are paying more attention to potential regulatory hurdles, whether their transaction plans are cross-border or domestic. The biggest setback in mergers and acquisitions of 2011 was AT&T's aborted $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom, which met opposition from the Obama administration.
A deal announced early in 2011, the merger of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse, remains in regulatory limbo as European authorities seek additional concessions.
Though signs point to a stronger mergers and acquisitions market, there is at least one class of deals not ready for a comeback: the highly leveraged buyout.
In 2011, the private equity titans pursued more modest-size transactions, compared with the go-go years of 2005 to 2007.
Blackstone's largest acquisition last year was the software maker Emdeon for $3 billion. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's biggest deal was even smaller, a $2.4 billion buyout of Capsugel. According to deal makers, buyout shops are still shopping, but banks are less willing to finance huge leveraged buyouts and boardrooms are hesitant to take on the risk. In the aftermath of the financial crisis, boardrooms are still worried that their companies will be left in the lurch if another Lehmanesque event happens.
''Boards used to say, 'Yeah, go to lunch with L.B.O. firms when they call.' Now they say, 'No, you don't have to do that,' '' Mr. DeNunzio of Credit Suisse said. ''Corporate directors have long memories.''
In 2011, the number of private equity deals announced was roughly flat, but the dollar volume fell 19 percent to $138.1 billion, according to a December report by Ernst & Young.
''And as much as we and our brethren walk with a lot of swagger, the reality is, these institutions and their risk managers need to shed risk-weighted assets, and that makes these types of transactions more difficult,'' Mr. DeNunzio said.
Nevertheless, deal makers have been encouraged by the evidence that investors look favorably on mergers and acquisitions as a growth strategy.
In the first six months of 2011, several acquirers recorded healthy gains in their stock prices on the day that deals were announced.
Notably, even Valeant Pharmaceuticals - which began a $5.7 billion hostile bid for the drug maker Cephalon in March - soared 10 percent on its announcement, a rare feat for a hostile buyer.
Over all, the global volume of mergers and acquisitions rose 7.6 percent last year, to $2.54 trillion, from 2010, according to Thomson Reuters.
''We have fragile momentum,'' J. P. Morgan's Mr. Woolery said. ''We believe the market will reward prudent acquisitions; the market wants this capital deployed to achieve growth.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS: Activity, 2000-11
TOP FINANCIAL ADVISERS: Worldwide, mergers and acquisitions
 TOP LEGAL ADVISERS: Worldwide, mergers and acquisitions (Source: Thomson Reuters) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); MERGERS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); ELECTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); EL PASO CORP (81%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (51%); KINDER MORGAN INC (51%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (51%)

TICKER: KMI (NYSE) (51%); DUK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



95 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: For High-Speed Rail, Support in the Past From G.O.P. Presidential Hopefuls

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
President Obama's program to bring bullet trains to the United States has been left on life support by the strident opposition of Republicans in Congress and in statehouses around the nation. But the idea may carry more favor with some of the Republican candidates vying to unseat Mr. Obama, who have a history of supporting high-speed rail.
Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House, has written books and given speeches about the importance of high-speed rail in the United States, and he supported a study for a high-speed line from Atlanta to Chattanooga, Tenn., sought by local boosters when he was in Congress. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas saw a role for high-speed rail in his failed $175 billion transportation plan to build what would have been called the Trans-Texas Corridor.
Even Representative Ron Paul of Texas, a small-government libertarian, signed a letter that several members of Texas' Congressional delegation sent to federal officials in 2009 urging them to give the state money for rail studies to help it build ''a truly ambitious and world-class high-speed rail network.'' 
But Mr. Gingrich may be the most outspoken Republican presidential candidate when it comes to his support of high-speed rail. He has spoken and written admiringly of China and France, and how far ahead of the United States they were when it comes to high-speed rail. He has opined that high-speed train lines would make sense in Florida and California -- places the Obama administration sought to build them -- and in the Northeast, among other places. And he has spoken of a role for government to help build a national rail network.
''If you want to be the most competitive country in the world in 2040 or 2050, you have to think large,'' Mr. Gingrich said in 2009 at a videotaped forum sponsored by the National Governors Association and Building America's Future, an infrastructure advocacy group. Mr. Gingrich's large thought was for America to build high-speed magnetic levitation trains, as China has.
''Let's go ahead and be really bold, and go head to head with the Chinese in developing and implementing maglev trains that move at 280, 300, 320 miles an hour,'' Mr. Gingrich said in his speech, which Streetsblog.org, a transportation Web site, wrote about recently. ''And you suddenly change all sorts of equations about how this country operates.''
Before the politics of rail was scrambled in recent years, Republican support for high-speed rail was not unusual. As recently as 2004, the Republican Party platform stated that ''Republicans support, where economically viable, the development of a high-speed passenger railroad system as an instrument of economic development and enhanced mobility.''
But the politics of rail changed considerably after Mr. Obama persuaded Democrats in Congress to include $8 billion for passenger rail and high-speed rail in his $787 billion stimulus plan.
States initially competed fiercely for the money, but that shifted after the 2010 midterm elections swept Republicans into power in Congress and in many statehouses. New Republican governors in Ohio and Wisconsin rejected hundreds of millions of dollars in federal aid that their states had won to build up their passenger rail systems.
Then Florida, which won $2.4 billion in federal money to build the nation's first true high-speed rail system between Orlando and Tampa, sent back the money after its new Republican governor, Rick Scott, said it would be a boondoggle. Republicans in Congress have since blocked the Obama administration's requests for more rail spending.
Against that backdrop, some rail advocates said it was a hopeful sign that some Republican presidential candidates have a history of supporting high-speed rail. ''I hope that we can move past high-speed rail being a partisan issue -- it certainly wasn't always that way,'' said Petra Todorovich, the director of America 2050, a branch of the Regional Plan Association, an independent urban research and advocacy group. ''While politicians may differ over how to structure and manage high-speed rail, politicians on both sides of the aisle have recognized that there are certain corridors in the United States where this makes sense.''
Spokesmen for Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Perry did not respond to e-mails seeking comment about their views on rail. But Mr. Gingrich outlined his views in his 2008 book, ''Real Change: From the World That Fails to the World That Works,'' saying that the California, Florida and the Northeast Corridor from Boston to Washington are all ''very conducive to this kind of high-speed train investment.''
But he does take a different tack from the Obama administration and many Democrats by arguing that development of rail has been stymied by ''union work rules,'' the inefficiency of Amtrak, politicians in Washington who subsidize uneconomic routes and ''the regulations and litigation involved in large-scale construction in the United States.''
A spokesman for Mr. Paul, Jesse Benton, said in an e-mail that Mr. Paul ''thinks high-speed rail is a very exciting idea and could be a very worthwhile project in many cases.''
Mr. Benton said that Mr. Paul believed that development of high-speed rail should ideally be left to the private sector, but that he would favor providing federal tax credits and rolling back regulations to promote its development. He said the letter Mr. Paul signed with other members of the Texas delegation in 2009 -- which sought federal money for studies that it said would help ''attract the large number of high quality private and public sector investors that will be key to making this project a success'' -- was an effort to ensure that ''an equitable portion of the money was spent in Texas so Texan taxpayers received some of their money back.'' That letter was first reported by Newsweek in an article in October about fiscal conservatives seeking federal spending for their districts.
But rail projects are still a tough sell with many conservatives these days, as Mr. Gingrich hinted in his 2009 remarks at the governors' forum. ''Let me just close with what I think is the central issue, that I'm prepared to debate both with liberals and conservatives, but probably I'm of somewhat greater value in debating it with conservatives,'' he said, speaking of the need to change the federal financing process. ''You can't talk about American national security in the long run without a fundamental redevelopment of this country economically. It is not possible. And you can't talk about a competitive American economy without a dramatically more robust and more modern infrastructure.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich has spoken of how far ahead France, with its TGV train, and China are when it comes to high-speed rail. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAIN JULIEN/AGENCE FRANCE- PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RICK PERRY (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



96 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Libraries Speak the Mother Tongue

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The best-selling biography of Steve Jobs is flying off the shelves at libraries in Queens, which is not surprising. But in many of the borough's 62 branches, the copies being borrowed are in Korean, Chinese or Spanish.
''We knew it was going to be big,'' said Younshin Kim, who acquires Korean books for the Queens system. ''IPhones and iPads are big in Korea.''
A library branch in Astoria, responding to its own diverse readership, carries children's books in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, Russian, Portuguese and Gujarati, the official language of a western Indian state. And when branch librarians noticed an influx of yet another group, they acquired the story of ''Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves'' in Croatian.
Striving to cater to the intensifying globalization of its surrounding streets, the New York neighborhood library speaks your language as never before. 
The surge in immigrants patronizing the Queens system has spurred its branches to offer books, DVDs and CDs in 59 languages, more than double the total a decade ago. So important has acquiring foreign-language books become to the Queens Library's mission that Radames Suarez, who supervises the Spanish collection, travels every year to the largest Spanish book fair in the world, in Guadalajara, Mexico. The Queens Library even has a staff demographer.
As with bilingual programs that teach students in their native languages as well as in English, the internationalization of neighborhood libraries has led some to question if making foreign books easily accessible impedes or hastens assimilation. Ms. Kim acknowledged that she worried that many Korean immigrants were ''reading only Korean books or watching Korean TV or interacting only with Koreans.'' Still, she said, in New York ''we like to keep our own cultures as well.''
And other librarians argue that making books available in native languages draws immigrants into a library where they will in time browse the English texts.
''As a professional, I think everybody has to have opportunities to read whatever they want,'' said Vilma Raquel Daza, the manager of the Corona library, where one-fourth of the books for adults are in Spanish, reflecting a neighborhood whose brick and clapboard houses are dense with Ecuadoreans and other Latin Americans.
While local branches have always had small foreign collections, an ever more multilingual city has led public libraries to dedicate more attention and staff to their effort, grounding decisions in census statistics, reports from foreign title distributors and surveys of branch managers about their patrons.
As a result, 39 branches have Spanish collections, and almost one-fourth of Bayside's collection is in Korean and Chinese.
Languages once obscure to New York libraries are also appearing in the stacks.
The Woodside branch has several shelves in Nepali, while a branch in Flushing has titles in the Afghan languages of Dari and Pashto. The Glen Oaks branch has three shelves in Malayalam, spoken in a slice of southern India but also among many health workers at nearby Long Island Jewish Medical Center.
Of the 6.8 million books, CDs, videos and other items on Queens stacks, 833,000, or 12 percent, are in a language other than English. (Calling them foreign languages does not seem quite accurate in a borough where almost 50 percent of the populace was born abroad.) Chinese and Spanish top the list, but there are large collections of Korean, Russian, French, Hindi, Italian and Bengali as well, said Joanne King, a library spokeswoman.
Logan Ragsdale, who runs the Broadway branch in Astoria, said it was essential that ''libraries provide a transition'' for newcomers to America. ''Most libraries I've worked in have realized that to be a bridge where people learn what the library has to offer, it helps to have books, DVDs and music in the native language,'' he said.
The New York Public Library, which serves Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island, and the Brooklyn Public Library have made similar efforts, with foreign titles making up 8 percent of the New York Public Library's branch acquisitions and 10 percent of Brooklyn's. The Van Nest branch near Pelham Parkway in the Bronx, for example, has 1,024 books in Russian and is increasing its holdings in Albanian.
But Queens, because it is one of the most polyglot spots on the planet, seems to be in the vanguard. In 1977, the library system started a New Americans Program to adapt to population shifts resulting from the 1965 immigration act, which significantly raised immigration from countries outside Europe.
According to Fred J. Gitner, the program's assistant director, branch managers were asked to note uncommon periodicals on sidewalk newsstands or at new ethnic restaurants. They held foreign movie nights to lure newcomers in order to find out what books they might want.
''Our patrons know the library customizes the collection to their neighborhood,'' said Loida Garcia-Febo, coordinator of the New Americans Program.
To learn what books Koreans might like, Ms. Kim browses the Korean equivalent of Amazon, then divides her annual budget of $60,000 among branches like Bayside and Flushing. Queens has 63,600 residents who claim Korean ancestry; 48,100 of them are native Koreans.
Ms. Kim buys writers most Americans are not familiar with, preordering several copies of the latest Kyung-sook Shin, whose last best-selling novel in Korea was ''Please Look After Mom.'' But she also orders lots of John Grisham thrillers and Stephenie Meyer's vampire romances because, she said, ''Korean kids are picking up on what their American friends are reading.''
Ms. Kim also buys how-to books on parenting, becoming a citizen, and navigating the college admissions labyrinth.
Meeting the needs of immigrants has also meant teaching English to adult newcomers -- many branches have such classes -- and recruiting staff members who speak foreign languages. The Queens system has 10 Korean-speaking librarians.
Customers seem to approve of their multilingual branches. Orlando Castillo, 51, a Dominican-born driver at a car rental agency who has been in this country for 30 years, visits the Corona branch several times a week to read classics like ''Don Quixote'' -- in Spanish -- or to peruse El Diario, the newspaper.
''I'm more comfortable in Spanish; it's my native language,'' he said. ''I'm grateful that the library allows that to happen. It's very kind.''
Jean Lee, manager of the Bayside branch, lets readers take out up to 50 books and other items at a time. Chinese patrons, she said, gobble up several short Chinese romances in a day and take out dozens at once.
''We have customers that come with suitcases,'' she said.
In Corona, the most popular books are by a Mexican writer, Carlos Cuauhtemoc Sanchez, who offers meditations on relationships. Cookbooks, books with religious themes and how-to guides on topics like repairing televisions are also very popular.
''Fiction, not too many people read,'' said Ms. Daza, who was an economist in her native Peru. ''They need more time and they need to work and they have big families. This neighborhood is poor.''
Carlos Montoya, 55, who regularly goes to the Corona branch to read histories in Spanish after work as a machine operator, said being conversant in languages and cultures other than English could expand opportunities. ''Now the world is not a small orange,'' he said. ''It's open to different people, and you have to accept different minds. Now the world is like a big papaya.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Corona library, which has many non-English offerings, the manager, Vilma Raquel Daza, talks with Karen Guanga, 9, center, and her mother, Maria. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (92%); LIBRARIES (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); BESTSELLERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); CENSUS (62%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST INDIA (57%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (73%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



97 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: In Euro Zone's Crisis, Technocrat in Paris Works Behind the Scenes

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- With France widely expected to lose its vaunted AAA credit rating any day now, the government here is bracing for the fallout. But as President Nicolas Sarkozy heads into a tough re-election fight, for financial damage control he is increasingly reliant on a civil servant of whom few people outside France have ever heard: Ramon Fernandez.
Mr. Fernandez, the head of the Treasury within the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Industry, has already been through a similar crisis-management exercise. That came in early August, when Standard & Poor's cut the top credit rating of the United States government while most of the French elite was on vacation.
Within hours on a summer Saturday morning, Mr. Fernandez helped organize a series of emergency calls with his boss, Finance Minister Francois Baroin, and others in Paris's circle of policy makers, to prevent the American crisis from sending a financial tsunami across the Atlantic. 
Later that day, Mr. Baroin appeared on French television to question the validity of the United States downgrade. President Sarkozy interrupted his vacation in a show of engagement. But behind the scenes, Mr. Fernandez did much of the heavy lifting.
It was not the first time in the two-year-long European crisis that Mr. Fernandez has quietly kept things moving. And it probably will not be the last.
As France and Germany take the lead in trying to hold the euro currency union together, Mr. Fernandez has emerged as one of Paris's top power brokers -- whether in promoting the French position on the banking sector's participation in a Greek bailout, or the creation of a rescue fund for troubled countries, or the recent deal by most European Union governments to shore up the foundations of the euro zone.
So much confidence has been placed in Mr. Fernandez that the French news media have started calling him the ''guardian of the triple-A.''
But Mr. Fernandez, at 44 a youthful technocrat whose soft blue eyes belie an inner sang-froid, chuckles about the moniker with an almost embarrassed air.
''I'm a civil servant,'' he said demurely. ''I do what I have to do.''
What he must do now could prove crucial to how well France weathers the country's seemingly inevitable debt downgrade. Because the demotion has been widely telegraphed by the three major credit rating agencies, Mr. Fernandez and other officials do not expect the impact to be devastating.
Still, a lower credit rating will probably make it more expensive for France to service its debt, and more difficult for the Europewide rescue fund -- of which France is a major backer -- to operate. That, in turn, could renew tensions between France and Germany over how to manage the euro crisis.
For every photo op in which Mr. Sarkozy and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany trumpet a new step forward, Mr. Fernandez has spent countless hours behind the scenes with an influential man in the presidential cabinet, Xavier Musca, Mr. Sarkozy's powerful chief of staff, and Berlin's point man, Jorg Asmussen, to smooth and soothe the sometimes testy French-German relationship.
Mr. Fernandez also exchanges e-mails frequently with officials at the Treasury Department to keep up on developments across the Atlantic. And his ability to parse mind-numbing financial issues better than nearly any other French civil servant helped French leaders look smart during the Group of 20 meetings to which France played host in 2011.
Doing all this largely below the public radar is apparently the way Mr. Fernandez prefers to work. In a country where discretion is a highly prized commodity, his effectiveness comes from operating in the shadows.
''Ramon is the right man in the right place,'' said Christine Lagarde, who worked with Mr. Fernandez until last summer, when she resigned as France's finance minister to become the managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
''He is smart, experienced, a good negotiator, but also a critical part of a close-knit network of advisers to the leading political figures,'' Ms. Lagarde said.
For Mr. Fernandez's efforts, he was made a chevalier of the French Legion of Honor in December, in a ceremony under the gilded ceilings of the Elysee Palace. Mr. Sarkozy cited Mr. Fernandez as a pillar in the management of France's future.
Yet such moments are rare. Mr. Fernandez generally eschews the elitist trappings embraced by most other government dignitaries.
He rides a motor scooter to work, for example. The idea of being chauffeured around ''gives me a headache,'' he said. On the scooter, ''you take some fresh air, and you are forced to focus on just one thing.''
In a rare interview, he described himself as a mere player in a vast French government apparatus. In reality, he is a central part of a remarkably well-oiled machine in which the top officials of nearly every ministry went to the same exclusive French universities (his was the prestigious Ecole Nationale d'Administration) and are all on cozy terms that facilitate easy dialogue.
The setup may be unabashedly elite, but the intimate structure allows the government to close ranks against attacks from ''outsiders'' -- for instance, by starting rapid investigations against market speculators or, more recently, Standard & Poor's.
Whether that proves to be an effective strategy remains to be seen. Last month, the three major ratings agencies -- Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch -- said they would review European Union countries, including France, for possible downgrades.
That word came after a summit meeting of European leaders in early December was widely declared a flop. There, after hard negotiations, officials had agreed to a Europewide pact aimed at stabilizing the euro zone -- only to see Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain refuse to sign on.
The breakdown led to a war of words between Paris and London, with Mr. Baroin and several other French officials speaking out within hours of one another to suggest that Britain was more deserving of losing its gilt-edged status than France.
Mr. Fernandez, not surprisingly, kept out of the skirmish.
Instead, he said in the interview, by telephone, that the agencies and skeptical investors had a point: Euro zone governments -- France's included -- had not done a good enough job explaining what he saw as significant progress toward strengthening the euro zone.
''We need to communicate better with a language that's spoken by the markets,'' he argued. ''Otherwise, it makes no sense to think we have a solution, if others don't think we have one.''
The son of a French novelist and a renowned French academic, Mr. Fernandez used an art metaphor to elaborate on the conundrum.
''It's become difficult for observers to see the global picture anymore,'' he explained. ''People are looking at it almost like a pointillist tableau, where you see one dot here that represents reforms to the euro architecture; another dot there that's the European bailout fund; a third one that's a recapitalization of European banks; and so on.
''But the global picture is being created day after day,'' Mr. Fernandez continued, ''and the challenge now is to get people to step back and look at all of the facts together, and recognize that we have dealt with the fundamental causes of the crisis.''
One of the biggest current challenges is figuring out how to restore investor confidence during the long period it will take for new treaties strengthening the euro bloc's foundations to be approved and put into effect. For example, plans to leverage the crucial bailout fund for the euro zone, the European Financial Stability Facility, to as much as 1 trillion euros, or $1.3 trillion, are still being fine-tuned after numerous false starts.
The International Monetary Fund is expected to help, but the fund is waiting to hear the details of how the euro zone countries will put together a new contribution of up to 200 billion euros. Another meeting between Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel is scheduled for next Monday to address this and other issues -- a get-together that risks raising yet another round of investor skepticism.
''European officials have failed to address the real problem -- the banking system, which is much too fragile,'' said Daniel Gros, the director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels.
But Mr. Fernandez argues that it is wrong for analysts to continue insisting on taking a negative view.
''We know we have to deliver, and we are working on this,'' he said.
''From time to time, as we reconstruct the euro's building blocks, we have had to be pragmatic and change course -- or even reverse ourselves -- and we have done this where necessary.''
Ten years down the road, Mr. Fernandez said, ''the euro zone will not only still be there, but we will be stronger, and there will be more of us around the table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ramon Fernandez is the head of France's Treasury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL FRADIN FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B1)
 The breakdown of a pact aimed at stabilizing the euro zone led Francois Baroin, France's finance minister, to criticize Britain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EURO CRISIS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (72%); CURRENCIES (64%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



98 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: On Eve of First Voting of 2012, Urgent Appeals

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER, JEREMY W. PETERS, RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr., SUSAN SAULNY, TRIP GABRIEL and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
On the last full day of campaigning before the Iowa caucuses, the crowds were bigger, the appeals were more urgent, but the field was just as unsettled as when campaigning began in earnest about a year ago. As the six candidates implored Iowans to turn out Tuesday night to support them, New York Times reporters captured the campaigning.
Mitt Romney
DAVENPORT, IOWA -- Standing on stages across Iowa and marveling the size of his crowds, Mitt Romney says this election ''is a dramatic choice between two different paths for America.'' The November contest, he argues, ''is an election about the soul of America.'' 
On a bus tour through the state over the past week, Mr. Romney has kept his focus squarely on President Obama, presenting two starkly different visions for the future of the country, and painting himself as the candidate best equipped to wrest the White House from Mr. Obama this fall.
For months Mr. Romney kept Iowa at arm's length, perhaps mindful of his second-place finish there in 2008 despite investing heavily in the state. But as the Republican field remained fractured, he made a late play to win. And a victory in Iowa would catapult him decisively into the position of the candidate to beat in the fight ahead, as polling for the next contest, in New Hampshire a week after the caucuses, gives him a commanding lead there.
To sharpen the contrast with the president, he tells voters in Iowa that while he offers a ''merit-based'' and ''opportunity society,'' Mr. Obama is turning the country in an ''entitlement society.''
''We're an opportunity nation, I think the president wants to turn us into a European-style welfare state, an entitlement nation, where the role of government isn't to provide our freedom and opportunity, but instead the role of government is to take from some to give to others in the name of equality,'' Mr. Romney said here Monday morning. ''I don't want to become a European welfare state. Europe doesn't work there -- it'll never work here.''
Mr. Romney's ''closing argument'' speech is generally long on patriotism -- since landing in Iowa, he's taken to quoting from ''American the Beautiful'' -- and short on policy specifics. On Monday, however, he offered a few details of what he would do as president.
Mr. Romney said he would negotiate trade agreements to open more markets to American goods. And he said he would balance the budget by cutting government programs that are not absolutely critical, such as subsidies for Amtrak and the Public Broadcasting Service.
''I'm going to say, which of these programs do we absolutely have to have?'' Mr. Romney said. ''Is this program so critical to America that it's worth our borrowing from China to pay for it?''
Mr. Romney added, deploying one of his fail-safe applause lines, ''By the way, the first on the list to get rid of is Obamacare.''
ASHLEY PARKER
Rick Santorum
PERRY, Iowa -- Rick Santorum, whose candidacy once appeared to be such a lost cause that he held a campaign event where one person showed up, spent the day before the Iowa caucuses trying to convince voters that he could not only win the Republican nomination, but would unite voters against President Obama to win in November.
''Who in this race has proven that with a conservative record they were able to attract independents and Democrats?'' he told a crowd of about 100 people (not including hordes of news media) who packed shoulder to shoulder inside a hotel lobby here for a voter meet-and-greet.
''Has Mitt Romney done that?'' he added. ''Nope. Never ran as a conservative and tried to attract any votes. Have any of the congressmen running from conservative Congressional districts proven that? Nope. Has Governor Perry, who ran as a conservative in Texas? I mean, how hard is that?''
Mr. Santorum's sudden change in fortune -- from practically pleading with voters to give him a chance to now telling overflow audiences that he is more electable than his rivals -- was a sign of how rapidly his campaign has climbed in the last few days. Several polls have put him near the top in Iowa, reordering the Republican field once again.
He has benefited from the support of evangelical Christians, who form a populous and pivotal voting bloc in the state. To win, however, he needs more than just evangelical support. And he urged the crowd on Monday in his own soft-sell approach, to spread the word. ''I'm asking you to use your best judgment,'' he said. ''I'm asking you to do what's right. I'm not going to tell you what to do.''
He may lack brevity (he is self-deprecatingly long-winded), but he does have persistence. He has visited all of Iowa's 99 counties. As he told the gathering in Perry, he believed the only way he could prevail in the caucuses was to meet as many voters as possible. ''That's what we did,'' he said. ''We came early. This is our 377th town meeting.''
JEREMY W. PETERS
Ron Paul
DAVENPORT, Iowa -- Representative Ron Paul closed out his Iowa campaign with predictions of dire consequences if the nation does not follow his recipe for large and immediate cuts to the federal debt and federal budget, as well as a warning that the country's civil liberties have been eroded to the point that the president can target for assassination Americans whom he and his administration believe to be a ''bad person.''
The crowds greeting him have only been growing, and he spoke before more than 300 people at a hotel here after being introduced by his son Rand, a Republican senator from Kentucky, who warned that ''we are borrowing $40,000 a second.''
Mr. Paul, a 76-year-old Texas congressman, came in fifth place in the 2008 Iowa caucuses, but now polls show him sitting at the top of the pack with Mr. Romney, a remarkable change of fortune for a candidate who was mainly an afterthought two months ago. And in many ways, the party has drifted toward his agenda of curtailing government spending and its reach into individual lives.
Mr. Paul suggested that his campaign's rising popularity showed that people want fundamental changes. ''All of a sudden this message of the Constitution and freedom and American traditions, all of a sudden has become much more accessible and people are thinking about it,'' he said.
''It is up to us now to restate the principles of the American tradition, and that is individual liberty,'' he added.
To applause and shouts of ''Yeah!'' Mr. Paul condemned the Patriot Act, describing it as a repeal of the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution.
''Why do they have to go after the American people? Why do they have the Patriot Act put on to the American people?'' he said.
The Paul campaign believes that whatever happens in Iowa, its message will resonate in the next battleground of New Hampshire with its strong strain of individualism and suspicion of taxation.
His final line of the speech here predicted that the message of his campaign would be heard far and wide.
''We have every reason to believe that we can turn this around,'' he said, ''and that tomorrow we may well send a message that is going to be heard not just throughout Iowa but throughout this country, and believe it or not, it could be heard throughout the world.''
RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.
Michele Bachmann
WEST DES MOINES -- As she made her way down a street of small shops here, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota greeted supporters and reminded them over and again: ''Tomorrow night is our chance to speak out.''
From diner to pet shop to florist, she glad-handed the crowd, which seemed much larger than those gathered at her campaign stops in recent days. Some were curiosity seekers, others were celebrity watchers. But many were her faithful: One man brought his Bible to be autographed. And Mrs. Bachmann said she was delighted to do it.
Then she made her final pitch to an electorate that seems to have turned its attention elsewhere after holding her up, just months ago, as a top-tier candidate.
''In this particular election, we can't take a chance,'' Mrs. Bachmann said. ''We can't settle. We need to have someone who's going to campaign and govern in the image and likeness of a Ronald Reagan and a Margaret Thatcher. And that's what I will do.''
Mrs. Bachmann appears undaunted by polls that place her in the single digits, highlighting the reversal of fortunes of a campaign that once seemed to capture the hopes of the Tea Party.
Aiming for the hearts and minds of socially conservative and evangelical Christian voters, Mrs. Bachmann said Monday: ''I will stand for human life. I will also stand for the traditional values of marriage between a man and a woman.''
She touched every major issue, too: jobs, the economy, national security and, of course, she stressed an argument that she has been making since the beginning of the race -- that she is the only Iowan running in the Iowa caucus.
''I was born in Iowa,'' said Mrs. Bachmann, who represents the Sixth District of Minnesota. ''I grew up in Iowa.''
Beyond clarifying her roots, she said: ''What I intend to do is turn the economy around. That's my background; that's what I understand best.''
SUSAN SAULNY
Newt Gingrich
DAVENPORT, Iowa -- Newt Gingrich, who so recently had the political winds behind him, conceded Monday that winning Iowa was a long shot, but he vowed to fight aggressively for New Hampshire and other early-voting states.
His strategy is to be the last conservative alternative to Mitt Romney, who Mr. Gingrich believes has only limited support despite spending millions on advertising and his campaign organization.
Mr. Gingrich's pitch to voters is that he would bring back the economic policies of Ronald Reagan, chiefly deep tax cuts, deregulation and aggressive development of American energy.
''I should win the Iowa caucus because I'm the only candidate who would successfully debate Obama in the fall,'' he said Monday. ''I'm the only candidate who has an actual track record -- twice, with Reagan and then as speaker -- of actually changing Washington. Everybody else would be an amateur in the Obama tradition who would not know what they were doing or how to do it if they won.''
Polls showing that Mr. Gingrich's support has been cut in half in Iowa hint at the obstacles he faces moving on to New Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida, where Mr. Romney's supporters, with a far larger war chest, plan to use similar damaging ads painting Mr. Gingrich as inconsistent on issues and a Washington influence peddler.
But on the campaign trail Monday, Mr. Gingrich betrayed little sense of defeat. His crowds were strong, even if not quite as large as in the past, with more skeptical questions echoing the issues raised by his rivals.
''Whatever I do tomorrow night will be a victory because I'm still standing,'' he said.
Asked the ''fire in the belly'' question by reporters, he said running for office was not the most important thing in the world to him.
''I want to be with my wife and children and grandchildren,'' Mr. Gingrich said, but added, ''I am prepared to campaign endlessly from now until November.''
''I regard it as a duty, not a pleasure. I regard it as an obligation, not an ambition. And I am prepared to do it.''
TRIP GABRIEL
Rick Perry
CARROLL, Iowa -- On his first campaign stop of the day on Monday, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas was introduced by a supporter as ''the next governor of the United States.''
But the flub was fitting: In his final day of campaigning before the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Perry emphasized his experience as Texas's chief executive, suggesting that state government in that state -- and his efforts to create jobs and rein in lawsuits -- was a model for the kind of administration he would run as president.
Accompanied by a dozen Texas lawmakers, Mr. Perry boasted of slashing Texas spending, deploying state troopers to the Mexican border and governing in collaboration with home-state Democrats.
And he lit into his Republican opponents as a crowd of Washington insiders tainted by the federal government's failures to budget responsibly and control the country's borders.
''An outsider to go into Washington, D.C. An outsider who's not tainted by how they've always done business in Washington. An outsider who's not tainted by that connection to Wall Street,'' Mr. Perry said, describing his credentials before a receptive crowd at a vineyard's tasting room here.
Just a few months ago, Mr. Perry entered the race as a potential front-runner, a proven fund-raiser and three-term governor of the country's second-largest state. But as Iowa Republicans prepare for the first caucus contest of the primary season, Mr. Perry remains stubbornly mired in the second tier of candidates, fighting for the allegiance of conservative caucusgoers who remain skeptical of Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul, who lead in recent polls.
Mr. Perry attacked Mr. Paul for his isolationist views on foreign policy, suggesting that ''when Ron Paul is further to the left then Barack Obama, that should tell you something.''
And he singled out Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator and onetime conservative culture warrior, as ''the king of earmarks'' during his time in the Senate.
The presidential race, Mr. Perry suggested, would be a marathon, not a sprint. And among the self-styled conservative candidates in the race, Mr. Perry said, only he had the money and organization to take on Mr. Obama.
''Isaiah said, 'Here am I -- send me,'' said Mr. Perry, invoking Scripture. ''This is your country. Take it back.''
NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney added to his ''closing argument'' speech on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Rick Santorum said he would unite voters to win in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The crowds greeting Ron Paul in Iowa have been growing.
Rick Perry has emphasized his experience as governor of Texas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Michele Bachmann said, ''Tomorrow night is our chance to speak out.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Newt Gingrich conceded Monday that winning Iowa was a long shot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (64%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (60%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); RICK PERRY (70%); RICK SANTORUM (56%); RON PAUL (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); MICHELE BACHMANN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



99 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Plan for High-Tech Campus

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Alliance Formed Secretly to Win Deal for Campus'' (news article, Dec. 26): Kudos to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for having engineered a competition that will bring to Roosevelt Island a new graduate school of applied sciences run by an alliance of Cornell University and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. It will do much to improve and expand the economy of New York.
The natural evolution of this cooperative effort should be the formation of an elite undergraduate college that can dovetail with the new complex.
BERNARD SCHARFSTEIN New York, Dec. 27, 2011 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



100 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING LEGAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Shareholders Sue Lloyds

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
American shareholders are suing the Lloyds Banking Group of Britain and former bank executives, saying they were misled over its rescue of HBOS in the depths of the financial crisis in 2008. Victor Blank, who stepped down as chairman of Lloyds, the former chief executive Eric Daniels and the bank itself have been named in a class-action lawsuit filed in New York, which claims they had a ''reckless disregard for the truth.'' The bank's board is accused of making misleading statements about the government-engineered takeover of HBOS, which at the time Mr. Daniels called a ''fantastic opportunity to create the U.K.'s leading financial services group and create great value for both sets of shareholders.'' Weeks later, however, Lloyds had to turn to the state for a bailout, surrendering a 43 percent stake in return for a $:17 billion ($26.4 billion) injection of taxpayers' money. Lawyers said shareholders were not told about a deterioration in HBOS's finances, and the extent of the problem became known only when the bank posted a worse-than-expected $:10 billion loss in February 2009. Lloyds declined to comment on the suit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%)

COMPANY: HBOS PLC (92%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (92%)

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (92%); LLOY (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: ERIC DANIELS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



101 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Workers of The World, Unite!

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Ottumwa, Iowa
The Republican Party is the party of the white working class. This group -- whites with high school degrees and maybe some college -- is still the largest block in the electorate. They overwhelmingly favor Republicans.
It's a diverse group, obviously, but its members generally share certain beliefs and experiences. The economy has been moving away from them. The ethnic makeup of the country is shifting away from them. They sense that the nation has gone astray: marriage is in crisis; the work ethic is eroding; living standards are in danger; the elites have failed; the news media sends out messages that make it harder to raise decent kids. They face greater challenges, and they're on their own. 
The Republicans harvest their votes but have done a poor job responding to their needs. The leading lights of the party tend to be former College Republicans who have a more individualistic and even Randian worldview than most members of the working class. Most Republican presidential candidates, from George H.W. Bush to John McCain to Mitt Romney, emerge from an entirely different set of experiences.
Occasionally you get a candidate, like Tim Pawlenty, who grew up working class. But he gets sucked up by the consultants, the donors and the professional party members and he ends up sounding like every other Republican. Other times a candidate will emerge who taps into a working-class vibe -- Pat Buchanan, Mike Huckabee or Sarah Palin. But, so far, these have been flawed candidates who get buried under an avalanche of negative ads and brutal coverage.
This year, Romney is trying to establish some emotional bond with the working class by waging a hyperpatriotic campaign: I may be the son of a millionaire with a religion that makes you uncomfortable, but I love this country just like you. The strategy appears to be only a partial success.
Enter Rick Santorum.
Santorum is the grandson of a coal miner and the son of an Italian immigrant. For years, he represented the steel towns of western Pennsylvania. He has spent the last year scorned by the news media -- working relentlessly, riding around in a pickup truck to more than 370 towns. He tells that story of hard work and elite disrespect with great fervor at his meetings.
His worldview is not individualistic. His book, ''It Takes a Family,'' was infused with the conservative wing of Catholic social teaching. It was a broadside against Barry Goldwater-style conservatism in favor of one that emphasized family and social solidarity. While in Congress, he was a leader in nearly every serious piece of antipoverty legislation. On the stump, he cries, ''The left has a religion, too. It's just not based on the Bible. It's based on the religion of self.''
Santorum does not have a secular worldview. This is not just a matter of going to church and home-schooling his children. When his baby Gabriel died at childbirth, he and his wife, a neonatal nurse, spent the night in a hospital bed with the body and then took it home -- praying over it and welcoming it, with their other kids, into the family. This story tends to be deeply creepy to many secular people but inspiring to many of the more devout.
He is not a representative of the corporate or financial wing of the party. Santorum certainly wants to reduce government spending (faster even than Representative Paul Ryan). He certainly wants tax reform. But he goes out of his way in his speeches to pick fights with the ''supply-siders.'' He scorns the Wall Street bailouts. His economic arguments are couched as values arguments: If you want to enhance long-term competitiveness, you need to strengthen families. If companies want productive workers, they need to be embedded in wholesome communities.
It's hard to know how his campaign will fare after a late surge that he is experiencing in Iowa. These days, he is a happy and effective campaigner, but, in the past, there has been a dourness and rigidity to him. He's been consumed by resentment over unfair media coverage. As his ally in the AIDS fight, Bono, once told a reporter, Santorum seems to have a Tourette's syndrome that causes him to say the most unpopular thing imaginable.
But I suspect he will do better post-Iowa than most people think -- before being buried under a wave of money and negative ads. And I do believe that he represents sensibility and a viewpoint that is being suppressed by the political system. Perhaps, in less rigid and ideological form, this working-class experience will someday find a champion.
If you took a working-class candidate from the right, like Santorum, and a working-class candidate from the left, like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, and you found a few islands of common ground, you could win this election by a landslide. The country doesn't want an election that is Harvard Law versus Harvard Law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RELIGION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



102 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Raising A Glass To 2011

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Please, please take your seats.
Thank you once again for coming to DealBook's annual closing dinner, where we toast and roast the world of finance - and look ahead to the new year.
We moved this year's dinner from its usual spot in Manhattan to Paris so Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel (or Merkozy, as you know them) could attend, given their newfound influence on the markets and the global economy.
We thought of holding our gathering in Berlin, but then realized this might be the last year we'd be able to do Paris while France still has its AAA credit rating. Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, also pointed out that Societe Generale could use the extra A.T.M. fees from all of you withdrawing tip money for the coat check.
Not everyone could make it. We mailed Jon Corzine several invitations, but initial reports indicated they were accidentally commingled with his holiday cards. He now says he misplaced the invitations completely and has ''no idea'' where they could be. 
Silvio Berlusconi originally R.S.V.P.'ed ''yes'' when he saw the menu, but backed out when he learned that ''16-year-old Caol Ila'' was a single-malt whisky.
But it's nice to see that so many of you could attend. The seating chart was a bit challenging. Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is sitting next to Paul Volcker. They've agreed to take any discussion of the Volcker Rule outside.
I placed Lloyd Blankfein next to Mark Zuckerberg to ease the underwriting pitch for Facebook's planned I.P.O. in 2012. I overheard Mr. Zuckerberg ask Mr. Blankfein what holiday gifts he had given his children. Then Mr. Zuckerberg added, ''I'm not making small talk, Lloyd - it's literally the only piece of your personal data I don't have.''
By the way, Mr. Blankfein, the celebrity chef Mario Batali is graciously catering our dinner and has assured me that blood-sucking squid is not on the menu. I should also note that Mr. Batali has volunteered his services, perhaps to atone for declaring in 2011 that ''the ways the bankers have kind of toppled the way money is distributed and taken most of it into their hands is as good as Stalin or Hitler and the evil guys.'' Mario is preparing tagliatelle ai funghi e pancetta, which roughly translates to ''please don't put my restaurants out of business.''
I was hoping to invite some leaders of Occupy Wall Street to provide a little balance, but I still don't know who's in charge.
Finally, Andrew Mason of Groupon is here. It's hard to overstate how big a year it was for Mr. Mason. His company went public, he became a billionaire and the daily coupon deals phenomenon he pioneered has seemingly swept the nation. Even his tablemate, Brian Moynihan, chief executive of Bank of America, is getting into the Groupon spirit with an offer of his own: three shares for the former price of one!
And now, on to the toasts and roasts of 2011:
BIGGEST LOSER AT&T's attempted $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile may have been the worst merger idea of 2011. Both sides claim the regulatory winds shifted in Washington after the deal was announced. But anyone who was paying even a whiff of attention knew from Day 1 that regulators would block it.
Many have credited T-Mobile's parent, Deutsche Telekom, and its legal team for walking away with a breakup fee worth about $6 billion. But T-Mobile winds up the biggest loser. The sour regulatory mood will make it harder for T-Mobile to pursue a deal with Sprint, which had been circling the company before AT&T arrived. T-Mobile and Sprint are both in worse positions than they were a year ago; both companies have lost customers, and Sprint has a lot less money to spend on an acquisition.
As for Randall Stephenson, AT&T's chief, while the dead deal was clearly a mistake at least it was a relatively cheap one, costing the company only about two months' worth of cash flow.
BIGGEST WINNER (FOR NOW) Richard Handler, the chief of Jefferies & Company, probably deserves a pat on the back - and a double shot of that Caol Ila. He had a tough 2011.
His firm skirted a run on the bank after the collapse of MF Global put the spotlight on Jefferies as the American investment house most vulnerable to European sovereign debt. A credit rating downgrade only fanned the flames. But Mr. Handler stood firm, issuing lengthy denials of virtually any speculation that emerged. And he reduced the firm's exposure to European sovereign debt by half just to prove to the market that he could. He had little choice, but so far, it's been a winning strategy. Stay tuned for 2012.
THE RATINGS AGENCIES I've invited Douglas Peterson, the newly installed president of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, mainly because the firm - and its industry peers - performed so miserably. You're new, Mr. Peterson - you just came over from Citigroup, where you were chief operating officer - so we'll let you eat with us this time.
But do take note: until the week before the collapse of MF Global, your peer agencies were giving that firm an investment-grade credit rating. As usual, the big ratings agencies did not sound the alarms until long after the fire was raging out of control. In S.& P.'s case, it kept an investment-grade rating on MF Global until it filed for bankruptcy protection.
Remember Enron? A.I.G.? S.& P. rated those companies with just as much insight. And Mr. Peterson, your firm's downgrade of the United States last summer seemed aimed more at generating media attention and headlines than helping investors understand the risks of investing in United States Treasury securities. If anything, the downgrade proved how irrelevant the ratings agencies have become: Treasuries have since rallied.
So that you can gain a fuller appreciation of the anger the American public harbors for your firm and industry, I seated you next to Michael Moore, who recently said on Twitter: ''Pres Obama, show some guts & arrest the CEO of Standard & Poors.''
CONSUMER 'PROTECTION' I invited both Elizabeth Warren and Richard Cordray to make a point: the bankers in this room waged a successful campaign to keep Ms. Warren from running the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in 2011. That, in turn, led President Obama to nominate Mr. Cordray, who was rejected by Republicans, again at the behest of Wall Street.
Whether either was the right person for the post is almost irrelevant. What's clear is that Wall Street is doing everything it can to keep the agency from being able to do its job, and that's a shame.
Even if you think the financial industry is overregulated or you don't like the agency's governance structure, all this political maneuvering sends an awful message to the public: Wall Street banks are actively trying to stymie a start-up agency charged with protecting consumers' money.
SLEEPER DEAL OF 2011 The sale of EMI Publishing for $2.2 billion to a group led by Sony was hardly the biggest deal of the year, but it might have been the most interesting and undercovered transaction of 2011.
Consider this: EMI's recorded music unit - the sexy part of the business that produces albums by the likes of Katy Perry and Coldplay - was sold on the same day for $1.9 billion to the Universal Music Group, a division of the French conglomerate Vivendi.
That means the typically boring publishing business, which deals with song copyrights, was sold for more, and it went to a Sony-led group that included boldface-name investors like the media mogul David Geffen; the estate of Michael Jackson; Blackstone's GSO Capital Partners unit; Mubadala, the investment arm of Abu Dhabi; and Jynwel Capital of Hong Kong.
The transaction was orchestrated by Robert Wiesenthal, chief financial officer of the Sony Corporation of America, demonstrating that in this age of digital media uncertainty, the predictable fee stream of a homely business like music publishing has a higher value than an ego-driven trophy asset like music recording.
Watch for more deals of this sort in 2012.
REMEMBERING TEDDY Finally, let's have a brief moment of silence for Theodore Forstmann, one of the pioneers of the private equity business, who died in November after a battle with brain cancer.
In an often-scorned industry, he embodied its best parts. Bold, often brash, sometimes difficult, he was ultimately an entrepreneur's entrepreneur. And he was introspective enough to have serious doubts about the use of leverage and speak out publicly about it. Most important of all, he donated much of his fortune to underprivileged children.
I'd be remiss if I did not also mention another industry legend who died in 2011: F. Warren Hellman, co-founder of Hellman & Friedman, the West Coast buyout firm that once owned Levi Strauss & Company and Nasdaq. He, too, gave away much of the ''2 and 20'' he made.
At a time when the ''1 percent'' is being ridiculed as selfish and greedy, it is worth remembering the enormous good Mr. Forstmann and Mr. Hellman accomplished. I attended Mr. Forstmann's funeral and was struck less by the Masters of the Universe in the pews than by the dozens of schoolchildren in attendance - most of them recipients of scholarships financed by Mr. Forstmann.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 02, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 18 about Sony's proposed $2.2 billion takeover of EMI Music Publishing misidentified the location of the headquarters of Jynwel Capital, one of the investors involved in the bid. The firm is based in Hong Kong, not Malaysia. The error also occurred in several previous articles involving the deal, including on Jan. 3 and Feb. 27 .

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katy Perry, an artist with EMI, which was sold last year, performing in Buenos Aires. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR R. CAIVANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Theodore Forstmann, left, a pioneer in private equity, died in November after a battle with brain cancer. At right, T-Mobile BlackBerry phones. AT&T's giant deal for T-Mobile fell apart last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CHERNIN/REUTERS
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (71%); CELEBRITIES (69%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (86%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (72%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%); JAMES DIMON (54%); JON CORZINE (52%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (51%); THEODORE FORSTMANN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012



103 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: 'My Name is --------. Vote for --------.'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
DES MOINES - They are known as caucus captains: volunteers who will deliver impassioned, seemingly spontaneous final sales pitches for their favored Republican presidential candidates on Tuesday night, moments before Iowans cast their ballots. 
In reality, it is rarely if ever left to the imagination of these supporters to come up with these all-important remarks. Instead, the campaigns provide detailed scripts that leave little room for improvisation. (Even opening greetings are laid out: ''My name is -------- and tonight I am here to vote for Rick Santorum.'')
Advance copies of the speeches show that they vary in length, style and emphasis, but in ways subtle and overt, they capture the essential character of the candidates.
Michele Bachmann
Big Picture: ''We have strayed from the founder's vision of government, and the 2012 election may be our last opportunity to reclaim our liberty from a government that is taking away more of our freedoms every day.'' Buzzword: ''Stand'' (as in, stand strong, stand up, stand for). Conservative Appeal: ''Michele started the Tea Party Caucus.'' Knock on Obama: Pledges to ''dismantle his radical socialist agenda.'' Soft Sell: ''The mother of five biological children and 23 foster children.'' Telling Detail: Likens herself to Ronald Reagan in 1980.
Rick Perry
Big Picture: ''He is the one candidate who will work every day to make Washington less consequential in our lives.'' Buzzword: ''Outsider.'' Conservative Appeal: ''He is America's most prolife governor.'' Knock on Obama: Promises to ''get rid of costly Obama regulations.'' Soft Sell: ''He has been married to his high school sweetheart for nearly 30 years.'' Telling Detail: He was an Eagle Scout.
Mitt Romney
Big Picture: ''Mitt Romney is the only Republican with experience in the real economy creating jobs.'' Buzzword: ''Leadership.'' Conservative Appeal: A pledge to ''stop union bosses from standing in the way of economic growth.'' Knock on Obama: The president is creating an ''entitlement society.'' Soft Sell: ''With Ann by his side for 42 years, he's been a great husband and father.'' Telling Detail: Dings rivals by saying he wouldn't ''embarrass the office'' of president. Rick Santorum
Big Picture: ''We have the special opportunity to catapult a true conservative warrior to the top of the national polls.'' Buzzword: ''Warrior.'' Conservative Appeal: ''Rick Santorum ended partial-birth abortions in America.'' Knock on Obama: None Soft Sell: ''Faithful husband, a home school dad to seven children.'' Telling Detail: Quotes John Adams, Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOSTER CARE (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); ABORTION (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK PERRY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (77%); MICHELE BACHMANN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



104 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Planning for Less Unanimity

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- For decades, any European Union nation could block proposed laws in the most delicate policy areas, like taxation, consigning them to the scrap heap if they encroached too much on its power.
But, as the union expands, the notion of universal consent is seen as increasingly unworkable and could be starting to break down. Legislators here are devising new approaches that will enable smaller groups of countries to adopt laws among themselves -- without the threat of a veto if all 27 member nations fail to agree.
The move toward smaller groupings reflects a growing fragmentation of the European Union and has been developing for some time. But it took on added significance after a spectacular dispute at the European summit meeting in December, when Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain failed to achieve new safeguards from European Union laws for his nation's financial-services sector. In retaliation, he blocked a proposed treaty change aimed at helping to strengthen the euro. 
Under current rules, groups of at least nine nations may go ahead with legislation if an agreement has stalled. However, they can do so only after all 27 countries have been through the time-consuming process of trying and failing to agree. So far, that has happened in only two cases, but others in which this principle may apply are working their way slowly through the system.
Most prominent are two pieces of draft tax legislation that have been drawn up in a way that ensures that they could work without the cooperation of the British if necessary. Moreover, they seem intended to operate in a way that could prevent Britain from gaining a big competitive advantage from staying outside the plan and undercutting other nations that adopt it.
The most diplomatically fragile proposal involves a financial transaction tax, which has been proposed by the European Commission and could raise about $74 billion a year, starting in 2014. Under the plan, the tax would be levied at a rate of one-tenth of 1 percent on all transactions between institutions. Derivatives contracts would be taxed at the rate of one-hundredth of 1 percent.
French and German policy makers see this as a ''Robin Hood tax,'' a way of discouraging speculative transactions and raising cash from the bankers who provoked the financial crisis.
Financial analysts say that it was Britain's concern over this impending legislation -- and the potential damage it could do to its banking industry -- that was at least partly responsible for its unyielding stance at the December meeting. British leaders feared that in the absence of global regulations, banks would simply relocate from London to New York, Singapore or other lower-tax domains. The British government points out that even a study by the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, suggests that the tax could reduce European gross domestic product by 1.76 percent.
Under the proposed legislation, a British veto would no longer prevent nine or more nations that wanted to go ahead from doing so. In principle, this would allow Britain to continue as a partial tax haven. But a clause in the law would require banks in the smaller group of nations to pay the tax on some transactions, even if they operate in London.
Similarly, moves to harmonize the base on which corporate taxes are assessed in Europe could work among a smaller number of nations even if Britain did not take part. Large corporations operating across borders would be able to opt for a unified tax system in the countries that sign up for the plan. That would simplify tax issues for companies operating in the participating nations and might even tempt some to relocate to them at the expense of Britain, which is likely to stay out.
''Obviously, these proposals are both on the table for 27 member states, and we would like to see them agreed by the 27,'' said Emer Traynor, spokeswoman on taxation for the European Commission. ''However, if that is not possible, these proposals are also workable if done by a smaller group. It is still completely feasible for a smaller group of member states to go ahead with them and deliver big benefits.''
Despite Britain's December veto of the treaty change on the euro, no additional protection for financial services was secured by the British. Neither of the two tax plans has yet been discussed fully by the 27 member nations, and smaller groups of countries could not contemplate forging ahead unless they were rejected.
The new way of devising laws is not always aimed against Britain. The British have, in fact, joined one plan, which aims to build a European system for patent protection. But the shift in the way the union is legislating is significant because it changes the rules of the game.
Some European officials argue that Britain, which has long promoted the idea of a more variable model of European integration, with countries free to pick and choose the degree of cooperation, is now experiencing the downside. Laws are being drafted in the knowledge that Britain may not take part and so are intended to prevent it from reaping a competitive advantage by staying out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In December, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain blocked a treaty proposal aimed at strengthening the euro. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); BELGIUM (91%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



105 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Jan. 3, 1959 | Alaska Becomes a State

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Jan. 3, 1959, President Dwight Eisenhower signed a proclamation admitting Alaska to the Union as the 49th state. 

 BODY:
On Jan. 3, 1959, President Dwight Eisenhower signed a proclamation admitting Alaska to the Union as the 49th state. The New York Times noted that the signing included the unveiling of the new 49-star American flag.
The land that became Alaska came into U.S. possession in 1867, when William Seward, secretary of state under President Andrew Johnson, negotiated a deal to buy the 586,000-square-mile area from Russia for $7.2 million, less than 2 cents per acre. Seward's decision was ridiculed in the American press, who saw no potential in the vast, inhospitable and sparsely populated area.
For decades after its purchase, Alaska was derided as "Seward's folly" or "Seward's icebox." This opinion changed in 1896 with the discovery of gold in the neighboring Yukon Territory, which spurred tens of thousands of people to head to Alaska in search of gold. The gold rush also brought about a boom in mining, fishing and trapping.

Though the first statehood bill had been presented to Congress in 1916, there was little desire in either Alaska or Washington for Alaskan statehood until after World War II. During the war, the U.S. established multiple military bases to resist Japan's attacks on Alaska's Aleutian Islands and prevent a potential invasion of the mainland. The military activity, along with the completion of a major highway from Montana, led to a large population growth.
In 1946, Alaskans voted in favor of statehood in a referendum and Alaskan delegates began to lobby Congress for statehood. After years of debate, Congress voted in June 1958 to admit Alaska.
Eight months after Alaska's admission, on Aug. 21, 1959, Hawaii became the 50th state. The 49-star remained in place until the following July 4, when it was replaced by the now-familiar 50-star flag.
Connect to Today:
Today the center of Alaska's economy is its oil and gas industry. Oil drilling has often created controversy in Alaska, particularly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker struck a reef in Prince William Sound in 1988, causing 11 million gallons of oil to spill into the water. Drilling, both offshore and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, also became one of the main subjects of debate in the 2008 presidential election. More recently the 2010 British Petroleum oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico renewed public concern for offshore drilling in Alaska.
Supporters of increased drilling argue that it provides jobs and will ultimately reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Opponents say that the potential damage to the environment is too great to justify drilling. In November 2011, President Obama proposed a five-year plan to drill offshore in new areas of the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska. 
What are your thoughts on offshore drilling and exploration? In your opinion, do the potential benefits outweigh the risks of environmental catastrophe? Why or why not?
Learn more about what happened in history on January 3
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 
This post originally stated that Hawaii became the 50th state on Aug. 21, 1957. The correct date is Aug. 21, 1959. 

        
Nov. 22, 1963 | President Kennedy Is Assassinated
        
Jan. 4, 1965 | Lyndon Johnson Outlines 'Great Society' Plans
        
Dec. 22, 1864 | Gen. Sherman Offers Savannah as a 'Christmas Gift' to President Lincoln
        
Dec. 6, 1923 | Calvin Coolidge Delivers First Presidential Address on Radio
        
Dec. 5, 1933 | Ratification of 21st Amendment Ends Prohibition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (85%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (85%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); HISTORY (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); WILDLIFE (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (66%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (65%); REFERENDUMS (64%); POPULATION DENSITY (55%); POPULATION GROWTH (53%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Alaska; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline (Des);; oil spill; presidents; states; U.S. History; Historic Headlines

COMPANY: BP PLC (52%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (52%); BP (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



106 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: The True Federal Debt

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: The overall debts of the federal government are five times as large as the much discussed "national debt," and can be addressed only through a very long-term approach, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
In our personal lives, we all understand that debts may take different forms. They aren't limited only to credit cards or loans taken out from banks; they consist of various promises and financial obligations as well. 
These might include commitments to pay for a daughter's wedding or a child's graduate school education, to provide the down payment on a sibling's house or to care for aged parents. While these debts may not show up on anyone's formal balance sheet, families are well aware of them, and failure to live up to them can be very costly indeed.
So, too, with the federal government. The national debt, which is the object of almost obsessive attention these days, is like a bank loan. It is an important part of national indebtedness, but only a small part. The vast bulk of the true debt is in the form of commitments to pay future benefits to retired federal employees, veterans, and Social Security and Medicare beneficiaries.

These commitments are generally invisible because the federal government operates on a cash basis. The federal budget is concerned only with income and outgo between two points in time - from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30, the fiscal year. Promises to pay benefits in the future generally show up in the budget only when those benefits are actually paid.
For many years, it was almost impossible even to find a list of the federal government's financial commitments. 
In 1949, the Hoover Commission recommended that the government move toward accrual accounting, which corporations are required to use, and book the full cost of programs on an annual basis. It wasn't until 1966 that Congress required the Treasury Department to publish the data. 
But it was available only as an obscure mimeographed document, difficult to obtain, called the Statement of Liabilities and Other Financial Commitments of the United States Government, known only to budget experts.
In 1977, the General Accounting Office and the Treasury published the first consolidated financial statement of the United States government. It was limited in scope, and insufficient data existed to calculate many of the government's assets and liabilities, but it was an important start to providing a complete picture of federal indebtedness.
The successor to the consolidated financial statement is now called the Financial Report of the United States Government. The edition for the 2011 fiscal year was published on Dec. 23 by the Treasury's Financial Management Service to no fanfare. 
The Obama administration, like previous administrations, had little interest in telling the American people that their debt problem was vastly worse than they thought. It buried the report on a day when most reporters were preparing for the holidays and unlikely to pore through a 254-page document filled with long columns of numbers punctuated with footnotes and accounting jargon.
Predictably, the financial report was ignored. Even The New York Times took no notice of it.
According to the report, the federal debt - simply the cumulative value of all past budget deficits less surpluses - was $10.2 trillion on Sept. 30. But the government also owed $5.8 trillion to federal employees and veterans. Social Security's unfunded liability - promised benefits over expected Social Security revenues - was $9.2 trillion over the next 75 years, or about 1 percent of the gross domestic product. Medicare's unfunded liability was $24.6 trillion, or 3 percent of G.D.P.
Altogether, the Treasury reckons the government's total indebtedness at $51.3 trillion - five times the size of the national debt. This would be an unbearable burden if it had to be paid by the current generation out of current resources, for it approximately equals the entire net worth of American households. 
But national debts, of course, will also be paid by future generations out of future output. Those generations will also inherit most of the assets of the current generation, from which future commitments can be financed. For example, future generations will inherit the Treasury's bonds as well as the responsibility for paying interest on them.
Even so, the Treasury projects that within a generation the federal debt will rise to 100 percent of G.D.P. as future commitments become part of annual spending over and above projected revenues.
Although it is commonly believed that our fiscal problem is purely one of spending, the financial report shows that this is not necessarily the case. The really rapid growth of future spending is not for programs but for interest on the debt. 
In other words, it would not be nearly enough just to balance the budget. The federal government would have to begin running a surplus immediately and do so continuously for the next 75 years to prevent the debt/G.D.P. ratio from rising.
The critical point is that interest on the debt is not just another government program that can be cut. It can be reduced only by running a budget surplus, selling assets to reduce principal or reducing the interest paid on the debt. 
With interest rates at historical lows and the vast bulk of the debt in the form of short-term securities that roll over rapidly, the figures in the chart above are probably conservative. It is not hard to envision a situation in which interest on the debt rises more quickly than spending can be cut - a problem many European nations are in today.
It's essential that we strive to overcome budgetary myopia. Our debts are manageable, but only if we take a long-run perspective.

        
Balancing the Budget, for Real
        
The Balanced Budget Amendment Delusion
        
A Close Look at the Perry Tax Plan
        
The Republican Idea of Tax Reform
        
The Rich Can Afford to Pay More Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (95%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (84%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); MEDICARE (74%); ACCOUNTING (69%) Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; deficit spending; federal budget; national debt; social safety net; Social Security; spending; Federal Budget (US); National Debt (US); Today's Economist

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



107 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: First Contest of the Year: Following the Iowa Caucuses

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Conducting a scavenger hunt through The New York Times to find information about the outcome and implications of the caucus voting. 

 BODY:
Overview | What are the Iowa caucuses? What role do they play in shaping American presidential elections? In this lesson, students create sketches and analyze visualizations of the Iowa caucuses, then conduct a scavenger hunt through The Times to find information about the 2012 Iowa caucuses and what they mean for the Republican presidential nomination. 
Materials | Student journals, computer with Internet access and projector (optional), blank sheets of paper, copies of the Sunday Review section feature "An Iowa Farmer's 2012 Almanac," (prepared as described in the Warm-Up below), print copies of or online access to The New York Times.
Warm-Up | Read aloud to your class the four-paragraph introduction on the Sunday Review section feature "An Iowa Farmer's 2012 Almanac," which describes the Iowa caucuses.
Tell students that as you read, they should sketch the scene being described. (You may want to have students listen closely to a first reading of the text and then draw as they listen to the text read aloud for a second time.) Emphasize that this is a speed-drawing activity and they will only have until you finish reading the text to complete their sketch. Their goal is create not a beautiful drawing, but one that reflects as much of the information included in the text as possible.
When students have completed their drawings, have them share and discuss them briefly in small groups. How similar or different are their sketches? Which details did they include, and which did they omit, and why? Have each group select at least one drawing to share with the whole class. Then ask: Had you heard about the Iowa caucuses before? Did hearing this text help you understand them better? Did drawing the scene help you picture what it's like to participate in a caucus? 
If desired, show students some of the photos from the slide show "Voters Turn Out in Iowa," taken at the 2008 caucuses, and compare these photos with their drawings. 
Next, pull out copies of An Iowa Farmer's 2012 Almanac, cut into smaller pieces so that each text box is on its own slip of paper. 
Give each group member a different one of the following slips: "Comparing 2008 Voters," "Pre-Caucus Expectations vs. Results," "The Current Crop," and "Two States' Records." Instruct students to work on their own to translate, in their journals, the graphic representation on their slip of paper into a written description of the information. 
Once all students have had a chance to translate their graphic representation into words, have them share their assigned graphics, and written interpretations, with the other students in their group. Finally, have each group share with the whole class. 
To conclude, hold a brief discussion. Ask: How are the Iowa caucuses different from other states' primary elections? Why do you think the candidates spend so much time, energy and money campaigning in Iowa leading to the caucuses? What are some of the outcomes that may result for those who finish at or near the top of the pack? How about for those who have a weak showing? 
Related | "On Eve of First Voting of '12, a Last Pitch in Iowa" notes, "On the last full day of campaigning before the Iowa caucuses, the crowds were bigger, the appeals were more urgent, but the field was just as unsettled as when campaigning began in earnest about a year ago." The article captures some of the last-minute campaigning being done by all six Republican contenders in Iowa (the former Utah governor Jon Huntsman opted not to compete there), including Mitt Romney:
Standing on stages across Iowa and marveling the size of his crowds, Mitt Romney says this election "is a dramatic choice between two different paths for America." The November contest, he argues, "is an election about the soul of America." 
On a bus tour through the state over the past week, Mr. Romney has kept his focus squarely on President Obama, presenting two starkly different visions for the future of the country, and painting himself as the candidate best equipped to wrest the White House from Mr. Obama this fall. 
For months Mr. Romney kept Iowa at arm's length, perhaps mindful of his second-place finish there in 2008 despite investing heavily in the state. But as the Republican field remained fractured, he made a late play to win. And a victory in Iowa would catapult him decisively into the position of the candidate to beat in the fight ahead, as polling for the next contest, in New Hampshire a week after the caucuses, gives him a commanding lead there. 
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
What strategies were the candidates and campaigns using to get Iowa voters to go to the caucuses and support them?
        
To you, which strategies and approaches seem effective? Which seem ineffective?
        
What is your impression of the Republican candidates for president from these descriptions?
        
From these snapshots of each candidate and campaign, what distinctions can you draw among them?
        
After reading this article, what questions do you have about the Iowa caucuses and the role that they play in our presidential elections?
Activity | Tell students that they work in pairs to go on a scavenger hunt through The Times looking for information about the process and outcome of the 2012 Iowa caucuses. (This can be done using the print paper, NYTimes.com or the Replica Edition, as well as the iPad app and the Election 2012 iPhone app.) 
If you wish to make the activity into a competition, tell the class that the team that has done the most thorough and accurate job on the scavenger hunt by a specified time will be crowned the winners. Remind them that they need to be both thorough and accurate as well as speedy. They also need to cite the specific article, blog post or other place where the information was found. 
You might want to give students working online these points of entry: the home page, the Politics section index, the politics blogs The Caucus and FiveThirtyEight, and the Iowa Republican Caucuses and Election 2012 Primary Calendar pages.
New York Times Scavenger Hunt: 2012 Iowa Caucuses
Find the following items:

        
The candidate who received the most votes in the Iowa caucuses, and what percentage of the vote this candidate received.
        
Who came in second, and with what percentage of the vote?
        
Who came in third, and with what percentage of the vote?
        
A quotation about the winning candidate from a caucus participant who supported him or her. 
        
A quotation about the winning candidate from a caucus participant who supported a different candidate. 
        
A photograph of the Iowa winner.
        
A photograph of caucus participants.
        
One statistic about each of the six main Iowa contenders aside from percentage of the caucus vote, like time spent in the state, money spent in the state, number of Iowa counties visited, money raised to date and money spent to date.
        
Three quotations, from three different pundits, political strategists or other experts, commenting on the Iowa caucuses.
        
A quotation in which an expert makes a prediction about the election based on what happened during the Iowa caucuses. 
        
A graphic representation of the results of the Iowa caucuses. 
        
A statement made by one of the top three finishers.
        
A statement made by one of the bottom two finishers.
        
Analysis of the results by a New York Times opinion writer or blogger.
        
The dates and locations of the first three primary elections in 2012 after the Iowa caucuses. 
When the allotted time is up, have each team share findings and check for accuracy. Then debrief. Ask: Is the outcome of the Iowa caucuses considered surprising? How are the Iowa results likely to shape the primary season for both the winner(s) and the also-rans? Do you think the Iowa caucuses should be decisive for these candidacies? Who now looks strong to you? Who looks weak? What are your predictions for the New Hampshire primary? 
Going Further | Individually, students write a brief statement making a prediction about the outcome of the New Hampshire primary (or their own state's primary). They can predict that a particular candidate will win the most votes or that a particular profile of candidate will win (like the candidate who spent the most money in that state, the one who spent the most time there, or one from that region, and so on). They should support their predictions with strong and persuasive reasoning as well as facts gleaned from Times reporting and other reputable sources. 
They should also make a sketch or political cartoon depicting their predictions. 
Post these predictions and drawings in the classroom and, as the primary elections unfold, return to them to see if any of them come true.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards): 
Civics 
9. Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs, and principles of American constitutional democracy.
20. Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections, and associations and groups in American politics.
29. Understands the importance of political leadership, public service, and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy. 
Language Arts 
1. Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
8. Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. 
United States History 
31. Understands economic, social, and cultural developments in the contemporary United States. 
Behavioral Studies 
1. Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity, and behavior.
4. Understands conflict, cooperation, and interdependence among individuals, groups, and institutions. 

        
All Eyes on Iowa
        
Taking Stock Before Iowa
        
Which Republican Candidate Will Win the Presidential Nomination?
        
Christie Will Not Run for President
        
The 2011 Iowa Straw Poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) candidates; caucus; Election 2012; electoral process; Iowa; primary election; Republican Party; Republicans; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Civics; Current Events; Elections in the United States; Journalism; Lesson Plans; Teaching with The New York Times

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



108 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Karting at Daytona: Fun, but Not Play Time

BYLINE: STEVEN COLE SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Kartweek, held from Christmas to the new year, brought hundreds of drivers to the Florida speedway, including drivers from the Nascar Sprint Cup series. 

 BODY:
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -- Late on the afternoon of Dec. 30, the bags were packed and trailers loaded. Daytona Kartweek was over, and by Saturday morning the historic speedway where it took place would be emptied of cars, 18-wheelers and tents.
A standing tradition among amateur drivers and some notable professionals, Kartweek is held over three days from Christmas to the start of the new year. For drivers, it is serious business. Their vehicles are not the yard chuggers of yore, powered by buzzing lawn-mower engines. Some of the karts cost more than $25,000 and top 100 miles an hour. Racing these and lesser machines here is an annual tradition fiercely upheld by its participants.
"The lengths people go to so they can come here after Christmas is extraordinary," said Keith Ori, 42, a small-business owner from Orlando, whose 7-year-old son, with the evocative name of Ayrton, raced here. "We only live about an hour away, but we were visiting family in Pennsylvania, so Ayrton and I flew home, and my wife has to drive home in the van with our other two kids. And she isn't real happy about that."
Buddy Long, general manager of the World Karting Association, the North Carolina sanctioning body, said the total number of entries for the races approached 1,500 in three separate classes: dirt-track racing on a small oval, sprint racing on a small, tight paved road course inside the speedway, and full road-racing karts, which competed on the 3.56-mile road course used by sports cars in the Rolex 24 Hours of Daytona.
The sprint racing, on a narrow, rough 0.7-mile course next to turn No. 3 of the big oval, was the site of the fiercest competition, as well as the biggest money. There are professional divisions at Kartweek, with prize and contingency money available. Kart manufacturers park their 18-wheelers and pitch huge tents near the track to support their drivers, which come from all over North America.
Many professional drivers in elite series like Formula One and the Sprint Cup began their careers in karts, and some come back. Dan Wheldon, the two-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 who was killed at the last IndyCar race of the 2011 season in Las Vegas, was a regular sight at past Kartweeks. Many of the drivers here dedicated their victories to Wheldon and his family.
Jamie McMurray, winner of the 2010 Daytona 500, was on the grid last week, as was the Nascar and Champ Car driver A.J. Allmendinger.
While Mr. Allmendinger was expected to compete later this month in the Rolex 24 and in February in the Daytona 500, he wouldn't miss Kartweek.
"I don't do very well on beaches," he said in an interview. "I can lie around for a while, but I get bored real easy, and I'd much rather be here racing. This is what I grew up with. So many kids come here dreaming of when they can make it big in other types of racing, but this is what they will remember -- being here with their families." Mr. Allmendinger finished fourth in his series finale Friday, while Mr. McMurray won.
The age range of Kartweek competitors is staggering. One of the top young drivers, Santino Ferrucci of Woodbury, Conn., has his own agent and said that depending on his schedule, he races in Europe once or twice a month. He's 13. Also in attendance were the 9- and 13-year-old grandsons of Emerson Fittipaldi, the two-time Formula One champion and Indianapolis 500 winner.
Mr. Long, the association's general manager, said the dirt-track division recently inaugurated a class for drivers as young as 5, and there were drivers in their 70s competing on the big road course.
And it isn't cheap at any level. Mr. Ori, the father of Ayrton, listed the expenses of the entry-level class. "A kart chassis new costs $2,800, an engine is about $2,000, computer data acquisition systems are about $500," he said. "All told, you're talking about $6,000, and that's a lot for a 7-year-old. If you buy used equipment, you can get on the grid for about $2,500."
For most young drivers, Kartweek is about the fun of competition. For a few, it may lead to a career in the race business. "Karting is an entry-level sport, but a lot of young drivers will climb the ladder," said Mr. Long. "But for so many of them, when they do, they'll tell you their best memories happened right here."

        
Bad Economy Is Putting Brakes on Racing
        
A 50-Year Racing Career, With No Checkered Flag in Sight
        
Monday Motorsports: Ferrari and Red Bull Abandon Formula One Teams Association
        
Monday Motorsports: A Win for Mark Webber Closes Historic 2011 Formula One Season
        
Monday Motorsports: Tony Stewart Outlasts Carl Edwards to Win Third Nascar Sprint Cup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (98%); NASCAR RACING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); INTERVIEWS (64%) Dan Wheldon; Daytona; Daytona 500; Formula One; Go-karts; Nascar; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Daytona 500 (Auto Race); Indianapolis 500 (Auto Race); Nascar Sprint Cup Series; Indy Racing League; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing; Daytona Beach (Fla); Motoring; Motorsports

ORGANIZATION: Formula One; Indy Racing League; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Daytona Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



109 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: From the Mail Bag: On Taking a Gap Year

BYLINE: REBECCA R. RUIZ


HIGHLIGHT: In response to an essay advocating taking time off between high school and college, readers raised financial concerns, to which the author, the former admissions dean at Middlebury, has responded. 

 BODY:
Over the holidays, readers flooded The Choice's mailbox with thoughtful comments and observations, including on the initial student postings to our first-person "Envelope, Please" series.
In response to Robert Clagett's essay on gap years, some of you also weighed in on the value of taking time off before college. Many were supportive of taking a break, though several wondered about the financial feasibility of doing so.
As one commenter wrote in response to Mr. Clagett's advocacy of taking a year off between high school and college:
Great advice in theory, but for some families, like ours, the financial aid consequences can be prohibitive. Our younger son probably would have benefited from a gap year, but when we ran the financial aid calculators, we discovered that it would end up reducing his older brother's financial aid by about $20,000 and reduce his own financial aid in a few years by about $25,000.
Similarly, another commenter wrote:
Lots of kids can't afford to support themselves for a year without education because they actually derive financial benefits from being a student, whether it be the ability to take out loans that displace expenses for living or an existence in a town that has the amenities that their hometown doesn't.
Another reader provided an example of financing her time off through work abroad. She wrote:
I took a gap year to study French in France, and it set me on a path of lifelong intercultural learning. I paid for it (mostly) myself by being an au pair nanny, which in France (unlike the U.S.) is structured to ensure one gets enough time off for school and cultural immersion each day.
As it turns out, Mr. Clagett, former dean of admissions at Middlebury College and a former senior admissions officer at Harvard, was following the discussion. On Tuesday morning he weighed in by e-mail, writing:
To address the economic factor, it's true that many of the organized programs cost a great deal of money, and that can be a limiting factor for many. But some of the programs (I know of financially needy students who have attended programs like Thinking Beyond Borders and Global Citizen Year in particular, but I suspect there are others as well) offer financial aid to those who need it.
More important, however, taking a gap year does not have to cost a lot of money. But then it entails more initiative and creativity on the part of the student. I know of one Middlebury student who spent a third of her gap year working at a monastery in North Dakota, a third working for a judge in Oklahoma, and the final third working in an orphanage in the Dominican Republic, all activities that she found on her own. Since she was doing volunteer work for most of the time, her living costs were mostly covered, with little cost to her and her family.
Mr. Clagett also addressed the concerns some readers raised about an uneven socioeconomic spread of students who take time off, citing research to dispel the argument that the higher-than-average G.P.A.'s of those who took gap years might actually stem from separate factors of privilege. He wrote:
It's true that since many students who currently take gap years come from more affluent backgrounds, it may not be surprising that most of them would perform more strongly once in college. However, in the analysis that we did with gap year students at Middlebury, we controlled statistically for that factor by comparing their actual G.P.A.'s with how we would have predicted they would perform on the basis of their various academic credentials from high school (in the form of an academic rating assigned by the admissions office that is arrived at on the basis of H.S. grades, rigor of academic program, scores, etc.; at many colleges like Middlebury this academic rating is the best predictor of actual academic performance in college).
So when we looked at the G.P.A.'s of gap year students when factoring in their academic credentials from high school, on average they still performed better than we would have expected.

        
As Jan. 1 Application Deadline Nears, an Argument for a Yearlong Breather
        
Early Line on Early Admissions
        
The Gap Year: Breaking up the "Cradle to College to Cubicle to Cemetery" Cycle
        
Your Admissions Essay, Live on Stage
        
Middlebury Dean Says SAT or ACT Score Is 'Seldom a Deal Breaker'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAMILY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); WRITERS (76%); ORPHANS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); VOLUNTEERS (65%) Gap year; Middlebury College; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (78%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (69%) FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



110 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: For Wall Street Overseer, Progress Comes at a Crawl

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: After 17 months, a nominee was announced to lead the Office of Financial Research, an agency that has been slow to fill its ranks and meet its deadlines. 

 BODY:
Leading a new federal agency intended to help prevent another financial crisis may seem like a dream job for most economic gurus, but the government made a nomination only last month after a painfully slow search process.
The Treasury Department first considered at least three other candidates during the 17-month hunt for a director of the new agency, the Office of Financial Research. But they all rebuffed the role, in part over fears of the contentious Congressional approval process. The White House finally unveiled the in-house nominee - Richard Berner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary who was formerly the chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley - in a little-noticed news release late on a Friday in December.
"I was a little frustrated" by the process, said Lewis S. Alexander, a former counselor to the Treasury secretary, who helped lead the search. "This is a harder job to fill than I would have thought."
Establishing the Office of Financial Research has become another example of the struggle to put the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul into effect.
The agency, which is tasked with collecting and analyzing reams of bank data on behalf of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, has been slow to fill its ranks and has missed deadlines. It was not until December, more than a year after the agency's creation, that employees left their temporary offices - a cubicle farm without private offices for top researchers - and moved to a larger space.
Although Mr. Berner has been tapped for the top post, it could take months for the Senate to approve him - if it does at all. Senate Republicans are pushing to abolish the agency altogether, a crusade that mirrors their effort to dismantle the more prominent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The agency is even getting heat from some of its supporters. Democratic lawmakers, who pushed in 2010 to create the organization, have grown impatient with the lack of progress.
"Time's a-wasting," said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who championed the agency. "If this organization had been fully functional six months ago, I honestly think we would have had better insights" into American financial firms' exposure to European sovereign debt.
Neal S. Wolin, the deputy secretary of the Treasury, who meets regularly with the agency's staff, said that the researchers were busy preparing for their complicated mission. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the agency two years before its first report to Congress is due.
"We are committed to building this office the right way and are focused on substance over speed," Mr. Wolin said in an e-mailed statement. "We have already made a good deal of progress on a lot of the foundational work."
Mr. Berner declined to comment.
The Office of Financial Research traces its origins to a conference in Washington in early 2009. With the economy grappling with a credit crisis, a group of academics and regulators concluded that the government lacked the knowledge to assess potential pressure points in the financial system.
The agency was created 18 months later, with the power to gather data from banks, including information about their trading partners, positions and transactions. The project has been likened to predicting the weather, a task possible only with a vast amount of data and the capacity for high-tech analysis.
The agency's mission doesn't sit well with some Wall Street lobbyists and their Republican allies in Congress, who raise concerns about data security. Representatives from firms like Morgan Stanley and Bank of New York Mellon have met with Treasury Department officials to discuss the agency, which will be financed with fees levied on banks. Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee recently proposed that the organization be abolished in a letter sent to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a new body that was charged with finding ways to address the budget imbalance.
"The Office of Financial Research is just as powerful and intrusive" as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Representative Randy Neugebauer, the Texas Republican who heads a subcommittee on oversight and investigations, said in a statement in July.
The threat of Republican opposition made it difficult to find a director, who is subject to confirmation by the Senate for a six-year term. Andrew W. Lo, a finance professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, met with Treasury officials about the post, calling it a "golden opportunity." But he said he felt he didn't have enough government experience and feared he would not get Senate approval.
Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist who co-developed the widely used Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, spent half a day at the Treasury Department in January 2011. Officials were attracted by his experience analyzing large amounts of data. John D. Geanakoplos, a Yale economist who is a founding partner of a hedge fund, was also on the shortlist, according to people briefed on the matter. But again, the candidates balked.
"It didn't seem like I could do it," said Mr. Shiller, adding that he thought the Senate would view him as "too radical."
As the search dragged on, the agency began to fall behind on its deadlines. In July, Mr. Wolin, the deputy Treasury secretary, predicted in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee that the agency would have about 60 full-time employees by the end of September. In December, when Mr. Berner's nomination was announced, the staff numbered 41.
In November 2010, the agency said in a report that it would aim to develop so-called legal entity identifiers - unique IDs to help regulators keep track of financial firms - by July. The date passed, and that system, though it has gotten international regulatory support, has not been completed.
"'Bickering' is just too weak a word to describe the dysfunction that's been going on," said Mr. Lo, the M.I.T. professor and onetime director candidate. "It's created a chill on any kind of innovation in government."

        
Treasury Urges Small Banks to Embrace Dodd-Frank
        
Treasury Takes On Wall Street Lobbyists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%) Andrew W. Lo; Dodd-Frank Act; Financial Stability Oversight Council; Jack Reed; John D. Geanakoplos; Neal S. Wolin; Office of Financial Research; Randy Neugebauer; Richard Berner; Robert J. Shiller; Treasury Department; Berner, Richard; Wolin, Neal S; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Financial Stability Oversight Council; Treasury Department

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JACK REED (77%); RANDY NEUGEBAUER (55%) Berner, Richard; Wolin, Neal S

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



111 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Elections: People Power

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The presidential campaign shouldn't eclipse important protest movements already under way. 

 BODY:
The presidential election may be grabbing headlines, but the true rallying cry for 2012 is to struggle and organize around those issues that a president might take seriously, to stake out positions that would benefit what used to be called the working class (and now goes by "the 99 percent") and to garner enough political will and power to pressure the president and Congress to move resolutely on the issues that matter.
Tall order, and one that's of more than passing interest to those who think of themselves as part of the food movement.
Or the environmental movement. Or the Occupy movement, or the foreclosed homeowners movement, or the indebted students movement, or the unemployment movement, or pretty much any movement you can name that implicitly or explicitly acknowledges that there is a class war in this country, one that the wrong side is winning.
It doesn't matter what you call the movements, or the people behind them. What matters is forcing the government to act in the interests of the sometimes-silent majority rather than its corporate paymasters. That struggle, probably as old as representative democracy itself, most notably dates from the consolidation of corporate power that began after the industrial revolution.

It's a struggle that's causing more and more Americans not just to see that something's wrong with the system but to find the will needed to change it. Again, these people go by a variety of names, though it's interesting that a recent Pew poll found that just about half of all young people now have a more positive view of "socialism" (whatever that is) than "capitalism" (we know what that is), as do nearly a third of all Americans.
Whatever. We should be able to agree on this: there is an oligarchy in this country, one that uses financial strength to gain political power, one that fights and bullies for its "right" to make money regardless of the consequences to the earth or anything on it. Exxon will do all it can to prevent meaningful climate change legislation; Cargill and Pepsi will fight any improvement in agriculture or diet that threatens their profits; Bank of America would rather see homeowners go under than discuss changes in financial structures. And so on.
There are two ways to fight this oligarchy: by making personal and local changes that counter its power, and by joining mass movements that protest that power. The first can be as simple as light-bulb changing (which Republicans famously detest) and salad-eating 

        
The Year in Review - And Next Year in Preview
        
The Not-Romneys
        
Rick, Rattle and Roll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); FORECLOSURE (74%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (55%) food industry; grassroots movements; political protest; Presidential Election of 2012; Mark Bittman

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



112 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: The Convoluted Economics of Storing Energy

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Some companies are betting that the increased use of solar panels will open the way for solar thermal, a kind of energy storage that compensates for the vagaries of photovoltaic generation. 

 BODY:
As I reported in Tuesday's paper, some companies think that one form of renewable energy is going to open a window for another -- that solar photovoltaic panels, which convert sunlight directly into electricity, are going to increase the grid's need for a type of solar energy that can be stored. 
That would be solar thermal power, which harnesses heat from the sun and converts it to steam to make electricity as the need arises, especially when the sun has disappeared behind a cloud or dropped below the horizon.
Electricity is unique among major commodities in that it must be produced and consumed simultaneously. It can be stored in a battery, of course, but for now, that technology's costs are so high that batteries are used mostly to smooth out production from renewable sources, not to save it for later. 
The economics of a plant that can store bulk amounts of energy are a bit arcane. At the simplest level, the idea is to gather the sun's heat when it is available and save it until prices for electricity reach a peak. At the moment, though, prices peak when the sun is high in the sky, because that is when the demand for power, mostly for air-conditioning, is highest. Some experts think it will be years before the power system is so saturated with solar photovoltaics that thermal storage becomes worthwhile.

"As the world exists now, what you're doing with storage is taking high-priced peak potential generation and moving it to off-peak," said George Sterzinger, director of the Renewable Energy Policy Project, a nonprofit group in Washington. 
Yet some solar thermal plants with storage are already in service. in Europe -- for example, a plant in Seville, Spain, built by Torresol Energy. The plant is small, just under 20 megawatts. And four are in construction or on the drawing boards in the American Southwest, as I explained in my article. 
Their backers are betting that photovoltaics will get cheap and will drive down the price of electricity in daylight hours. But there are other reasons that energy storage might be a good deal from a financial point of view. 
One is that the two biggest forms of renewable energy, wind and solar, have a tendency to gear up and then fall off very quickly, at least by the standards of conventional generators. If the rest of the system has to respond, then a lot of plants running on coal or natural gas would have to increase their output or cut it very quickly. 
If the fraction of energy derived from renewable sources is small, that's not a big problem; if solar makes up, say, 2 percent of production, and if it falls by half in a few minutes, the rest of the system can compensate. But if solar makes up 20 percent, the potential problem gets bigger. 
Paul Denholm, a researcher at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, in Boulder, Colo., recently estimated that 5 percent of annual photovoltaic production might have to be shut off because it came at the wrong time or introduced too much instability into the system. Adding storage, he said, could be worth 0.3 cents per kilowatt-hour. (That sounds small, but it's an appreciable fraction of the national average retail price of a kilowatt-hour, which is around 11 cents.) 
Worth even more is the value of a source that can be counted on to produce when needed, as opposed to when the sun is shining; that's worth 0.7 cents to 2 cents, he calculated. 
There are other ways to store electricity, but all of them incur costs, both for equipment and the energy. The "round-trip efficiency" of a solar thermal system - that is, the ratio of energy recovered compared with the energy invested - is in the range of 95 percent. That's far higher than the ratio for the biggest conventional form of storage, pumped hydro, which involves pumping water up a hill and letting it turn a turbine to make electricity on the way down later. 
Another technique is storing energy by compressing air. But with either of these, the energy being stored might have come from a coal-fired plant, which will not help the environment or help a utility meet its quota for renewable energy.

        
Big Infusion for a Solar Builder
        
On Our Radar: Frog Deformities Tied to Pharmaceuticals and Plastics
        
Solar Start-Up Plans Big Factory in South Carolina
        
Imagining a Renewable Utah
        
Need Solar Power? Buy a Garden Plot

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (97%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); WIND ENERGY (58%) BrightSource; energy storage; renewable energy; solar panels; solar thermal; solarreserve; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Electric Light and Power; Solar Energy; National Renewable Energy Laboratory; Alternative Energy; Energy Business

ORGANIZATION: National Renewable Energy Laboratory

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (68%); SOUTHWEST, USA (53%) EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (68%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



113 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Women of Steel

BYLINE: JULIA BAIRD


HIGHLIGHT: The "Iron Lady" is an icon. But neither Michele Bachmann nor the film understand who Margaret Thatcher really was.&#160; 

 BODY:
It had to happen. For female politicians, invoking the name of Margaret Thatcher at a crucial time in your campaign is one of the canniest, most cliched and most predictable of tactics.
What's surprising about Michele Bachmann is that it took her so long.
As America's "iron lady," Bachmann told Iowans several times during the run-up to the caucuses, she would "stand up for the free market, stand up for job creation, and turn our economy back round so that we also can have tremendous job growth." You can turn the economy around, Bachmann says, if you just have "the will and the resolve to do it." Easy.
Now her most recent ads, broadcast at the conclusion of her campaign in Iowa, also claim that Bachmann is not only made of iron, but has a "titanium spine." It seems unlikely that Bachmann remembers that Thatcher once accused a Conservative colleague of having a spine that did not reach his brain, but who knows?
Michele Bachmann is certainly not the first wannabe Margaret Thatcher. The nickname Iron Lady - not so affectionately bestowed by the Soviets - quickly spawned imitations around the world in the 1980s and 1990s, inspiring labels that juxtaposed femininity with strength: the Steel Magnolia, the Iron Butterfly and even, in Australia, the Steel Sheila.
In the 1980s, few women could enter politics in western countries without being asked if they were like Margaret Thatcher. The very term "iron lady" reveals a basic discomfort with women in power - they must not be like other women to succeed, they must be like steel, iron, titanium. Just like another great cliche - the iron fist in the velvet glove - metal is somehow encased in the softness of a woman's body.
It's part of our grand Western tradition of taming, patronizing or marveling at female politicians. Their authority and exercise of power is too often depicted as surprising, secondary, or, in this case, appropriately severe. Toughness and decisiveness, it is implied, do not come naturally to women.
The problem is that when most women compare themselves to this Thatcher it is usually a reminder of how unlike her they are. Thatcher was actually a pragmatic world leader who was deeply schooled in free-market philosophy and kept her faith largely private. As a young politician, she did not balk at supporting the legalization of homosexuality, nor at widening access to abortion (she voted for it "under controlled conditions" in the early months). She was not a moral crusader - unlike Bachmann.
We also forget that Thatcher was a chemist and a barrister who was in politics for 16 years before leading her party, and 20 before leading the country. Bachmann has served in Congress for five.
Thatcher simply outworked and outshone those alongside her. She thrived on work, and was fond of grilling disheveled, tipsy cabinet colleagues at 3 a.m. on some of the finer points of policy. Journalists cooed about her legs and porcelain skin endlessly - Christopher Hitchens described her as surprisingly sexy - but this meant little. One member of her cabinet, John Biffen,described her as a "tigress surrounded by hamsters."
Thatcher won an intellectual battle with a consistently coherent free-market capitalist political philosophy that conflated, defined and rebranded classic liberal ideas in her own name, as Thatcherism: low taxes, low spending, free markets, anti-union, pro-deregulation and privatization. Yet in so many discussions in American politics, Thatcher is described simply as a cartoonishly tough, freakishly successful woman.
Now her specter is looming even larger given Meryl Streep's dazzling performance in the film "The Iron Lady." In an attempt to humanize her, the film depicts an extraordinarily successful leader as a demented, forlorn and slightly regretful old woman.
If Bachmann has seen the movie, she will know that despite Streep's fine efforts, the film is a travesty, reducing the longest serving British prime minister of the past century to a tetchy political anomaly. As she suffers from dementia, her entire career is viewed through flashbacks of a woman who sees apparitions and hears things. The moments of her greatest triumph - winning the leadership of the Tories in 1975, and her three consecutive election victories - are glossed over or forgotten. She seems merely cranky and determined.
In fact, she was stroppy, as the British say - rather belligerent and easily annoyed.
The film focuses not on the acuteness of Thatcher's mental faculties, but the loss of them. So much so that rather than providing an inspiring example of what women can do, it serves as a cautionary tale about women who work, who might in their old age wonder if their families suffered for their now foggily remembered achievements. It was depressing.
Bachmann's bid for the title of Iron Lady is understandable given the desire of the American public for effective, strong leadership at a time of recession, the longstanding love of Republicans for Churchill as well as the fact that we don't want any politicians to be spineless. "The lady's not for turning," Thatcher defiantly told her Conservative colleagues in 1980, when she refused to change course on the economy. But we hardly hanker for a lady who for turning.
Perhaps Bachmann will need to rely on some of the former prime minister's resolve as the primaries roll on in the coming weeks. "Defeat?" Thatcher said. "I do not recognize the meaning of the word."

        
The Problem of the Traveling Politician
        
Cain's Paine
        
Other Stops: Looking Back at Denver and Ahead to the Twin Cities
        
A Look at the Numbers
        
Mind the Gender Gap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (71%); ABORTION (50%) Iowa; Margaret Thatcher; Michele Bachmann; the Iron Lady; Bachmann, Michele M; Hitchens, Christopher; Streep, Meryl; Thatcher, Margaret H; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; Conservative Party (Great Britain); Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Conservative Party (Great Britain); Republican Party

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (94%); MERYL STREEP (74%) Bachmann, Michele M; Hitchens, Christopher; Streep, Meryl; Thatcher, Margaret H

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



114 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5989 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard
 Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FAMILY (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



115 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 8611 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. Live Dashboard
 Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
10:59 P.M. | Romney Party Looking for Results to Cheer
In the hot and overstuffed ballroom, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote, and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up in the room.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announced that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy-dandy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live-free-or-die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mitt Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged their caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had just decided to support his underdog candidacy within the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," Ms. Kilgore, 58, said. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few predicted he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. Financially strapped, his advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fundraising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with The New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," Mrs. Gingrich, wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags, said.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (70%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



116 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucuses: Five Things to Watch

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Some years the Iowa dynamic is clear. This isn't one of them. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
Some years the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
The three leading candidates entering the caucuses are almost evenly tied, making the possibility of a close, three-way finish not only possible but perhaps likely. The candidates in the polls' second tier have all vowed to continue on no matter what happens in Iowa.
And the expectations for each of the candidates have been bouncing around so wildly that it's hard to put into perspective the difference between a candidate who squeaks out a first-place finish versus the one who falls to third, but just by a hair.
The Caucus will be live-blogging the caucuses from about 6 p.m. Eastern time Tuesday, so come back here for the very latest updates on the candidates' activity, as well as analysis and insight from our reporters.
In the meantime, here are five things to watch as the night unfolds.
EVANGELICALS: Four years ago, nearly 60 percent of the nearly 120,000 people who attended the Republican caucuses identified themselves as evangelicals. It was one of the largest percentages in recent memory and it helped power Mike Huckabee to a victory here.
But the high proportion of religious (and mostly Christian) voters also made the caucus-day electorate even less representative of the broader electorate that will vote in other state primaries and in the general election later this year.
It will be interesting to see that number tonight. If it is high, that would likely help Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania. But it would provide ammunition to those who say the Iowa results are not a good barometer of the rest of the campaign.
If that proportion is low, it may help confirm what politicians in both parties have been saying for months: that the really motivated voters this time around are the ones fired up by economic concerns, not social ones. That would probably be good news for Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts.
A RON PAUL FADE? The big thing that has always been holding back Representative Ron Paul of Texas is the question of whether he is electable in a contest against President Obama in a race that takes place in the broader electorate countrywide.
Mr. Paul has done everything he can to combat that concern. His campaign this time is better organized than his 2008 bid, has more money, is airing slick television commercials and has effectively reached out to a core audience that goes beyond the libertarians and students who backed him four years ago.
If Mr. Paul succeeds in winning the Iowa caucus - and especially if he does so by a respectable margin - it will go a long way toward suggesting that he has hit upon a formula that can deal with the electability question.
But if he fades - falling to third place or even lower - it may be the clearest evidence that questions about his long-term viability as a Republican nominee remain a stumbling block for his campaign.
TURNOUT: In 2008, at the height of the battle between Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrats turned out in record numbers in Iowa. More than 220,000 people gathered in caucuses to choose between the two Democrats (and the others on the ballot).
No one expects Republicans to match that number Tuesday night. But the level of participation will be a peek into the crystal ball of partisan enthusiasm in a swing state that will be crucial to both sides in the general election.
Fourteen months after a tidal wave of Republican energy helped sweep many Democrats out of Congress, the Iowa results will provide a hint about whether that intensity of purpose remains.
If 140,000 or 150,000 voters show up to the caucuses, that would be a good sign for Republicans (who have said for months that they have succeeded in adding to the rolls of registered Republicans). If fewer people show up than last time, it may suggest that the excitement of 2010 has faded a bit.
ROMNEY'S MARGIN (EITHER WAY): Future political strategists may use Mitt Romney's 2012 campaign in Iowa as the model for how to set expectations properly.
For nearly the entire year, his campaign strategists made the case that Mr. Romney would not necessarily campaign hard here. They were careful not to raise expectations by committing too much time or money in Iowa, running more of a stealth campaign and stopping by just enough to make sure voters were not offended by his absence.
The absence kept him from being drawn into Iowa battles with the other candidates as they rose and fell. And then, in December, when it looked like there might be an opening, he pounced - jumping in with both feet (and with the help of a "super PAC" to pummel his opponents, particularly Newt Gingrich).
The result is that most political observers argue that Mr. Romney can afford not to win outright in Iowa. If he comes in second - or, conceivably, even third - he would probably declare himself satisfied and quickly move on to New Hampshire, where he enjoys a big lead in the polls.
So the thing to look at will be his margin, in either direction.
If Mr. Romney wins big, coming in first and outpacing his opponents by an impressive margin, the impact on his campaign could be dramatic. Such an outcome would have been unexpected given the polls which all predicted a close race. And it would help fuel a narrative that the party is beginning to coalesce around him.
On the other hand, if he loses big - falling not just to third place, but a distant third - Mr. Romney will probably spend Wednesday morning explaining why the result should not be seen as a significant rejection of his efforts to be seen as the inevitable nominee of the party.
FOURTH PLACE: All of the focus on the top three finishers makes sense. Terry E. Branstad, the Republican governor of Iowa, says every time he gets the chance that there are "three tickets out of Iowa." The candidates who finish fifth and sixth will face a lot of pressure to drop out, especially if they are way behind at the end of the night.
But keep an eye on fourth place. If Mr. Paul and Mr. Santorum finish in the top three, there will be many people who will argue that neither one is in a position to effectively challenge Mr. Romney as the primary battle extends for months.
The argument against Mr. Paul will be that he is not electable (see above). The argument against Mr. Santorum will be that, like Mr. Huckabee four years ago, he does not have the campaign infrastructure to mount an effective anti-Romney campaign even if the money starts flowing in.
In that context, a fourth-place Iowa finisher could emerge as the most effective voice inside the party arguing against a coronation of Mr. Romney. That would be made easier if the candidate in fourth place is not too far behind the ones in the top tier.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, is waiting in New Hampshire, having decided not to campaign in Iowa. And if he does well there on Jan. 10 he could try to claim the mantle of Mr. Romney's main challenger for the nomination.
But there is a political value to having competed, and if the fourth-place finisher goes on to do even better in either New Hampshire or South Carolina, it could pump new life into his or her campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Republican Party; Iowa; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (77%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



117 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2476 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
On Wall Street, Renewed Optimism for Deal-Making | Before Europe's debt crisis flared anew last summer, rattling markets and choking off a revival in mergers and acquisitions, huge corporate cash piles and cheap debt had fostered hopes that deal-making would recover strongly last year.
In the first half of 2011, the dollar volume of announced mergers worldwide neared its highest levels since the financial crisis. But that momentum proved fragile as deal volume tumbled 19 percent, to about $1.1 trillion, in the second half of 2011, compared with the same period the year before, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Now, with stock and credit markets steadier, deal makers are growing confident that 2012 will be better for business. Not only do they point to cheap financing and the large amounts of cash on corporate balance sheets, but they say that companies that have already cut costs may decide that they need to make acquisitions to drive growth in the face of a tepid economy.
According to a recent study by Ernst & Young, 36 percent of companies plan to pursue an acquisition this year.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Raising a Glass to 2011 | DealBook's annual closing dinner, hosted by Andrew Ross Sorkin, celebrates the best and worst in the world of finance in 2011.
DealBook Column 
Sarkozy's Crisis Manager | Ramon Fernandez, the head of France's Treasury, known in the country as the "guardian of the triple-A," has emerged as a top power broker, working to maintain calm even as France braces for a potential sovereign downgrade, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
In Greece, a Pawn Shop Haven | Gold dealers and pawnshops are thriving in Greece as entrepreneurs, who insist that their services are legitimate, cash in on the country's desperation.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Total Buys $2.3 Billion Stake in Chesapeake Shale Assets | The French oil giant Total bought a piece of Chesapeake Energy's Ohio shale operation for $2.32 billion, as demand increases for natural gas assets.
DealBook 
Buffett Trails a Weak Stock Market | Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway declined 4.7 percent last year as the S.&.P. 500 index was virtually unchanged, a rare loss for the company, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Lifelong Investor Goes to Work for Buffett | Ted Weschler, the hedge fund manager who will soon join Todd Combs to work for Warren E. Buffett, has been investing ever since he was a child, when his aunt bought him 12 shares of Litton Industries stock for his 12th birthday, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with Mr. Weschler.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Morgan Keegan's Stifel Deal Said to Fall Through | Regions Financial, which runs Morgan Keegan, ended talks to sell the brokerage to Stifel Financial, as the two companies could not agree on terms of a deal, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of discussions.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Exchange Mergers Disappoint | After pairs of stock exchanges tried to complete mergers last year, more than $37 billion worth of announced deals still haven't happened, and more than more than $21 billion of equity value has vanished, Bloomberg News reports.
"The next time any exchange announces any merger whatsoever, I'm selling the stock instantaneously," Thomas Caldwell, chief executive of Caldwell Securities, told Bloomberg.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
At Sears, an Overhyped Deal | Edward S. Lampert, the hedge fund manager who is the chairman of Sears Holdings, tried to create retail gold by combining Kmart and Sears, but flagging sales raise doubts about his supposed genius, writes Floyd Norris of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
India's O.N.G.C. Eyes Unusual Energy Assets | O.N.G.C. Videsh, a unit of India's state-run Oil & Natural Gas Corporation, is interested in acquiring unconventional assets like shale gas and oil sands, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Greek Telephone Operator Sells Serbian Stake | OTE, which is controlled by Deutsche Telekom, plans to use the proceeds from the $512 million deal to reduce its debt load.
DealBook 
Liberty Mutual Seeks Scrutiny of Rival Deal | Liberty Mutual asked regulators to examine Nationwide Mutual Insurance's $1.6 billion deal for a smaller rival, the Harleysville Group, after its own offer was spurned, Bloomberg News reports, citing a person with knowledge of the matter.
DealBook 
Virgin Completes Northern Rock Purchase | The British government completed its sale of Northern Rock, a bailed-out bank, to Virgin Money, even though the deal doesn't fully recoup the government's rescue, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Bank of America Is Dow's Worst | After falling 58 percent last year, and erasing nearly $80 billion of market value, the bank was the worst performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Banks Take Longer to Die | Just 92 banks failed last year, down from 157 banks in 2010 and 140 in 2009, but that's because they are surviving for longer periods in a weakened state, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Japanese Bank Stress Test Results Pending | As early as this summer, the International Monetary Fund is expected to release the results of tests that gauge the ability of Japanese banks to withstand economic strains, a Japanese business newspaper reported, according to Reuters.
REUTERS
Treasury Bonds End Best Year Since 2008 | Treasury bonds have returned 9.66 percent through Thursday, according to data from Barclays, and the yield on 10-year Treasury debt finished the year below 2 percent for the first time in more than three decades, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Cameron Promises to Curb Executive Pay | Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain said the government will "tackle excess" in London's financial industry, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Spanish Bank Cuts Asian Staff | Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria laid off about 29 employees in its Asian offices, roughly a third of its staff there, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing a person familiar with the situation.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Goldman Said to Put Alliance Films on the Block | Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the private equity unit of the investment bank, is selling Alliance Films, the distribution company behind "The King's Speech," with the Bank of Montreal handling the sale, the Financial Times reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sportcraft Files for Liquidation | The Chapter 7 filing by the privately held Sportcraft is a blow to its majority owner, Wasserstein & Company, the private equity firm that manages money for the estate of the late Bruce Wasserstein and other investors.
DealBook 
Strong Demand Expected for Leveraged Loans | Following a dearth of deals in recent months, only $5.1 billion of leveraged loans are scheduled to be sold in the new year, a two-year low, according to Standard & Poor's LCD, the Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Private Equity Seen Increasing Asset-Backed Lending | As banks scale back lending in Europe, private equity firms are expected to offer companies more asset-backed financing, after such lending increased in 2011, according to GE Capital, the Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Singapore's Temasek Starts Company Focused on North Asia | Temasek Holdings, an investment firm run by the government of Singapore, has set up Pavilion Capital, a new company to invest in private companies in northern Asia, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Bridgewater Stays Gloomy | Bridgewater Associates, the world's biggest hedge fund firm, plans to maintain its bearish view that developed economies will experience at least a decade of slow growth, the Wall Street Journal reports, noting that the firm's flagship Pure Alpha Strategy fund was said to be up 25 percent last year through November.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hedge Funds Pile Into Bets Against Euro | As the euro fell to a 10-year low against the yen by the end of the year, hedge funds increased their bets against the currency to a record level, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Ackman Said to Seek Railroad Chief Replacement | Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman that is the largest shareholder in the Canadian Pacific Railway, recommended that the company replace its chief executive with the former head of the Canadian National Railway, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
When Assets Move in Lockstep | A range of assets increasingly moved in tandem over the past year as investors reacted to headlines and broad economic events. Correlation within the S.&P. 500 stock index reached its highest level since 1996 in November and December, according to Barclays, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Offerings Sputtered at Year's End | The fourth quarter of 2011 saw 240 initial public offerings raise $25.3 billion worldwide, the lowest dollar amount since the second quarter of 2009, according to Dealogic, the Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Two Top Contenders for Facebook I.P.O. | With Facebook expected to file early this year for an I.P.O. that could be worth $10 billion, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are front-runners among the banks hoping to underwrite the offering, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed bankers and venture capitalists.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hong Kong Keeps Top I.P.O. Spot | The Hong Kong stock exchange beat New York and London in attracting the most I.P.O. capital last year, according to Dealogic, the BBC reports.
BBC
Saying No to Chinese I.P.O.'s | A Chinese fund management company that is a joint venture between French bank Societe Generale and Baosteel has said that it will avoid initial public offerings in China amid poor market performance and questions over the quality of some companies, the Financial Times reports, calling such an announcement "extremely rare."
DealBook 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Building Solar Energy Storage Plants | Two California companies, SolarReserve and BrightSource, are building plants to store solar energy by heating salt, using technology that has attracted investments from the likes of Google and Chevron, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
JPMorgan in Wind Power Deal | Enel Green Power, an Italian renewable energy company, said a consortium of investors led by JPMorgan Chase will invest $340 million in two American wind farms, Dow Jones reports.
DOW JONES
Energy Investing in a Changing World | Ray A. Rothrock, a general partner at the venture capital firm Venrock, writes in a blog post in the Huffington Post that venture capital investors' recent interest in energy companies has coincided with visible climate change.
HUFFINGTON POST
The Year's Biggest Tech Investments | As technology companies took large late-stage investments instead of going public, Facebook and Groupon led the list of those that received the biggest financing rounds this year, according to TechCrunch.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Investigation Into MF Global Expected to Heat Up | In the coming months, federal authorities are likely to answer crucial questions, including the exact whereabouts of the customer money and who at MF Global caused it to disappear.
DealBook 
Exxon to Receive Arbitration Award From Venezuela | To resolve a dispute over Venezuela's 2007 nationalization of Exxon Mobil's assets, the company will receive an award worth more than $900 million, which includes as much as $555 million in cash, an international arbitration panel ruled, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
BP Sues Halliburton Over Oil Spill | BP is asking Halliburton, a contractor, to pay the entire bill for the cleanup of the 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, previously estimated at $42 billion, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Lloyds Former Management Sued by American Investors | Shareholders accused Eric Daniels, formerly the chief executive of Lloyds, and Victor Blank, the former chairman, of "reckless disregard for the truth" after the bank's merger with the Halifax Bank of Scotland, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Winners and Losers in Gundlach-TCW Face-Off | Was it all just a white-collar tempest in a teapot? With the terms of the out-of-court settlement confidential, many questions remain in the wake of the legal fireworks.
DealBook 
The Letter That Led to a Shake-Up at Hewlett | The June 2010 letter that accused Mark V. Hurd of sexual harassment, leading to his ouster as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard that summer, has emerged, Quentin Hardy of The New York Times reports.
DealBook 
Still Learning the Same Old Lessons | The past year taught us that some things in finance, like the ability of corporate miscreants not to pay their own legal bills, don't change, writes Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Rakoff's Fresh Salvo Against the S.E.C. | Judge Jed S. Rakoff accused the Securities and Exchange Commission of misleading both his court and the federal court of appeals, after the agency sought an emergency halt in its case against Citigroup, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Europe Sticks With Austerity | As the crisis in Europe drags on, leaders are preparing to make sacrifices in order to demonstrate to investors that their governments are fiscally disciplined, despite criticism from economists, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
In Which Greek Bonds Are Called Risk-Free | After the Dodd-Frank Act required the government to reduce its reliance on credit ratings, regulators recently proposed using a different set of rankings that calls the debt of most European nations, including Greece and Portugal, risk-free, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Volcker Rule Seen as Costly for Investors | According to a study by Oliver Wyman, a consulting firm, investors in corporate bonds could suffer a $315 billion paper loss from the Volcker Rule's implementation, the Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Guilty Pleas in Municipal Bid-Rigging Case | CDR Financial Products and its owner, David Rubin, plead guilty to fraud and bid-rigging conspiracies to win business from state and local governments, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
India to Relax Rules for Foreign Investors | In a rule expected to take effect this month, India's government will allow individual investors to buy equities directly, rather than through through so-called participatory notes, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MERGERS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); STATISTICS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: TOTAL SA (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: TTA (LSE) (63%); TOT (NYSE) (63%); TOT (BIT) (63%); FP (PAR) (63%); FP (BRU) (63%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



118 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Words of Wisdom From the Candidates: End This, Repeal That

BYLINE: JULIET LAPIDOS


HIGHLIGHT: At a Rock the Vote event at a Des Moines high school, Ron Paul was the crowd pleaser. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- When I was in high school, assemblies rarely deviated from the following pattern: No matter the speaker, the students would start out restless, and leave bored. But we never had Ron Paul as a closer.
This morning, Valley High School hosted a Rock the Vote event where Michele Bachmann, Mitt Romney's son Tagg, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul -in that order -addressed a gym full of seniors and urged them to participate in the caucuses.
Mrs. Bachmann got things going by trying to unite the room in acquisitiveness. "One thing that almost everyone here would say: They want to make sure they make a lot of money when they get out of school." She went on to praise Steve Jobs, and did a fairly good imitation of his famous product launches by explaining how much she loved her iPhone: It's not just a phone, she said, but a media library!
How does a politician who self-identifies as the best choice for Christian evangelical voters get away with so blatantly ignoring the social gospel? Is making a lot of money the highest good? Is making and buying gadgets what makes America great? What about the camel, the eye of the needle and all that?
Regardless, the iPhone bit was a preamble to what passes for a policy statement: If elected president, she said she'd abolish the current tax code and replace it with a "pro-growth" code.
The students clapped her off the stage, but without much enthusiasm.
Then came Tagg Romney, who told a story about building a fence with his father and promised the students that, if elected, the fence-builder would not embarrass them. He did about as well as Bachmann on my applause-meter.
Rick Santorum got a slightly more favorable initial reception, maybe because he pandered: "Go Tigers!" he said, trying to cash in on his knowledge of Valley High's mascot. He also said that personal liberty makes America great, and that we're a "bottom up" not "top down" country. I guess the Occupiers, who've been spreading the word about America's problem with income inequality, have not gotten through to Mr. Santorum.
And finally Ron Paul took the stage. The students greeted the most unpresidential-looking of all the candidates with shouts of "We love you Ron!" and cheered him on when he promised to end war, and end the Federal Reserve (not necessarily in that order.)
Mr. Paul's speech moved very rapidly from one talking point to another. It was hard to follow, but if the speech were a word cloud, I can say with confidence that "liberty" and "constitution" would figure prominently.
Also the word "money" as in "we shouldn't print money." He spoke very passionately about monetary policy and even suggested that young people share his concern with inflation because they keep up with "Austrian economics." With all due respect to the Tigers, I doubt that.
Undoubtedly, though, he was the crowd's favorite. Emma Huston, a student, said Mr. Paul was "extreme," and summarized his speech as "end this, repeal that." But she said she liked Mr. Paul's anti-war stance. (She actually used the word "isolationist" at first, which is accurate. But she corrected herself.) Mostly she appreciated his conviction.
Ali Harrelson, another student, said Mr. Paul broaches topics other candidates avoid, including drug legalization. 
"And Austrian economics?" I asked. "Not that many teenagers pay attention to that," she answered.

        
The Iowa-Is-So-Important Phase Ends, the Iowa-Is-So-Over Phase Begins
        
Nobody Likes to Talk About It, but It's There
        
When Romney's Reach Exceeds His Grasp
        
Live From Iowa
        
In the Iowa Schoolyard: You're a Liberal! Am Not! Are Too!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); RELIGION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (50%) iowa caucuses; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Iowa

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (90%); RICK SANTORUM (77%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); MICHELE BACHMANN (76%); STEVEN JOBS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



119 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucus goers who say that defeating Mr. Obama was the most important quality in a candidate. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucus goers who say that defeating Mr. Obama was the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important thing in a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
His business experience seems to have helped Mr. Romney attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about three in ten said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucus goers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
Mr. Romney is also seeing support from older caucus goers in Iowa tonight. Among those sixty-five and over, he has a plurality, with three in ten voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucus goers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About three-in-ten voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations, said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about two in ten voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



120 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa will gather in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live DashboardTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Value
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was more of a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend, Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl new much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When this reporter told her that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all. A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge. I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOMEWORK (74%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ABORTION (50%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICK SANTORUM (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



121 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 3794 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa will gather in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live DashboardTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism near Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers at a random number of caucus sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MARRIAGE (64%); RELIGION (50%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



122 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 7421 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard
 | Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election underway, a new test is underway of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican party.
It appears to remain a key part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But it's influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucus goers today, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues today.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly three in ten backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about three in ten Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most to them today, while about the same number said a candidate who is a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepares a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government is the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); BUDGETS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RON PAUL (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012



123 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10087 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard
Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
11:49 P.M. | Bachmann Stays in the Race
DES MOINES - Michele Bachmann declined to drop out of the Republican presidential contest despite having come in last in the Iowa caucus, receiving only about five percent of the vote.
Speaking to her supporters, Mrs. Bachmann said that "the people of Iowa have spoken."
But she declined to indicate whether she would drop out of the race in the near future, saying that "there are many more chapters to be written on our path to the nomination."
Mrs. Bachmann railed against President Obama in her remarks, saying that the country would undo what she called "Barack Obama's socialized medicine." 
She added: "We have strayed from the vision of our founders view of government."
- 
11:44 P.M. | The Gingrich Effect on Romney Supporters 
DES MOINES - Nothing quiets the Mitt Romney crowd like Newt Gingrich.
When Mr. Gingrich appeared on the oversize projection screen in the Romney caucus night headquarters, the hundreds gathered in the ballroom of the Hotel Fort Des Moines grew silent to watch Mr. Gingrich give his caucus night speech.
They cheered when Mr. Gingrich said that the most important thing in November was beating President Obama, but then the catcalls set in. When Mr. Gingrich took a moment to congratulate Rick Santorum, who was still going neck and neck with Mr. Romney for first place, the crowd let out some boos. And when Mr. Gingrich said that Mr. Santorum had run a clean campaign "unlike some of the candidates" - a veiled allusion to Mr. Romney, whose super PACs have gone up on the air with negative advertisements - an "oh no he didn't" hiss rippled through the room.
Later, when Mr. Gingrich touted his own campaign for its positive message, saying he'd never run negative ads, a man in the crowd quipped, "Because you don't have the budget."
The boos subsided to make way for a disappointed hush, when Fox News showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled back ahead of Mr. Romney. But the sight of the Fox News anchors pulling out a calculator and struggling to figure out how many votes Mr. Santorum was ahead by - that'd be 28,201 minus 28,056 for you middle school math students - cheered up the room, sending a ripple of laughter throughout.
- 
11:38 P.M. | Gingrich Promises 'Great Debate' in N.H.
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich promised that a "great debate" in the Republican party will begin Wednesday in New Hampshire as he lashed out at Mitt Romney as a "Massachusetts moderate" who would not fundamentally fix the country's problems.
Conceding that he had not placed in the top three in Iowa, Mr. Gingrich nevertheless vowed to continue and blasted the process of negative campaigning that he said held his campaign down.
"There will be a great debate in the Republican party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said to an enthusiastic crowd at his election night party.
Mr. Gingrich vowed to be the one to wage that debate with Mr. Romney, whom he described as too much a part of the Washington establishment to change the way the city works.
He said Mr. Romney would "be pretty good at managing the decay" but said he would not be able to change the basic structure of the way politics works.
Having said repeatedly over the past several weeks that he will only run a positive campaign, Mr. Gingrich said he will not suddenly turn around and launch "gotcha" ads.
"But I do reserve the right to tell the truth," he said, and if that seems negative, it is more of a commentary on Mr. Romney's record, he said.
"This is a debate that begins tomorrow, in New Hampshire, and will go on for months," he said.
- 
11:25 P.M. | 'Lovin' It' at the Santorum Ballroom 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - "I'm lovin' it!" shouted Lynn Rodgers as she stood in front of a television tuned to Fox News.
A graphic on screen had just shown a tie between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Ms. Rodgers, 47, from Boone, was one of a few hundred supporters who packed into a hotel ballroom here in this Des Moines suburb waiting for Mr. Santorum to emerge.
"He was at the bottom of my list," she said, echoing the sentiment from many Iowans who have switched their votes to Mr. Santorum. "And when he came to Des Moines, I said to my husband, well, I guess I've got to go see him."
She said she was glad she did. "He may be a politician, but he's genuine. He's honest." 
The energy around her was palpable.
"Is the room officially stoked that even this gets a reaction?" said a supporter who merely tapped the microphone and drew cheers from the crowd.
"We pick Rick!" they chanted.
- 
11:15 P.M. | Paul Concedes the Top Two Spots
DES MOINES - Ron Paul claimed one of the three tickets out of Iowa after results showed him trailing the two leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
But even though he didn't take first or second place, he said his was only "one of two that can actually raise a national campaign and can raise the money."
Mr. Paul spoke to his supporters around 10 p.m. Central time and said there was "nothing to be ashamed of" in placing third in the Iowa contest.
"This movement will continue," he pledged.
Mr. Paul said that his campaign would go on to New Hampshire and the other states that follow.
"We will go on, we will raise the money," he said. "I have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be there."
Many of his supporters were disappointed that he was on track a third-place finish. But they did not show any of that, and they hollered for Mr. Paul as he began to speak.
"We love you Ron!" one woman shouted. "Preach it!" a man yelled.
Mr. Paul said the campaign had succeeded in "reintroducing some ideas that Republicans have needed for a long time."
"This is the conviction that freedom is popular," he said to cheers. "This movement is going to continue and we are going to keep scoring. We will go on, we will raise the money, and I have no doubt about the volunteers."
He added that he was "ready and raring to move on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire."
The crowd remained enthusiastic all night. But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
In the end, it didn't happen, and now Mr. Paul will focus on New Hampshire, where he has a strong organization, but Mitt Romney has a commanding lead in the polls.
- 
11:12 P.M. | CNN Projects! And Still Awaits a Winner
DES MOINES - Wait! Stop the presses! CNN has just projected . . . everything except the top two spots.
In what may be a first of its kind, the network announced that it was able to project who would come in third through seventh. (In order, according to CNN: Paul, Gingrich, Perry, Bachmann, Huntsman.) 
But alas - with just a fraction of votes separating Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - the network (and everyone else, frankly) was unable to project the winner.
That's not CNN's fault. The numbers are just that close.
But it made for a funny TV moment.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Glamour-Free at the Romney Ballroom
DES MOINES - Mr. Romney's ballroom was crowded but largely free of glamour as a group of supporters and grass-roots volunteers piled in to wait for the county-by-county returns. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah sat off to the side, gamely giving interviews, and The Boston Globe's Matt Viser - a dead ringer for Mr. Romney's youngest son, Craig - wandered around the hotel, looking a lot like, well, Craig Romney.
"I'm wishing for a Huckabee Chuck Norris moment," said a wistful television producer, referring to the caucuses four years ago, when, in a bizarre twist, Mike Huckabee went onstage more than once to introduce Mr. Norris as the main attraction. 
Asked about the evening's star power, an aide staffing the ballroom entrance joked: "Brad Pitt is going to be coming through that door in 20 minutes." (We waited, but Mr. Pitt was not forthcoming, though Tagg Romney turned a few heads as he walked through the hotel corridor.)
Perhaps the most glamorous attendees of the night were Mr. Romney's team of advance staff members - they'd traded their usual road warrior clothes for sharp dark suits, and were dashing around whispering into their wristpieces like the men of "Ocean's Eleven."
- 
11:03 P.M. | Paul Party Hoping for Momentum
ANKENY, Iowa - The crowd here cheered and hollered when the camera showed them on television.
But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
- 
10:59 P.M. | Romney Crowd Looking for Results to Cheer
DES MOINES - In the hot and overstuffed ballroom of the Hotel Fort, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announce that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than the one they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live free or die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mr. Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
DES MOINES - As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged its caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second-floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had decided to support his underdog candidacy just in the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," said Ms. Kilgore, 58. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few had predicted that he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood, N.H.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. His advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fund-raising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," said Mrs. Gingrich, who was wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (94%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



124 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10326 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard
 | Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
0:54 A.M. | Santorum Celebrates Strong Finish 
- 
0:06 A.M. | Perry to Return to Texas to Assess Campaign
DES MOINES - Rick Perry said Tuesday night that he will return to Texas to "assess" whether there is a path for him to continue in the presidential campaign.
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, came in fifth in the Iowa caucuses, a disappointing finish after quickly - but briefly - jumping into first place in the race this summer. 
In less than five months, his candidacy went from first to almost last, brought down by several bad debate performances that robbed his campaign of much-needed momentum.
Mr. Perry had said he would take the campaign directly to South Carolina, skipping New Hampshire to fight on in the conservative southern state.
But Mr. Perry said on Tuesday night that he had changed his mind. He did not officially drop out of the race, but said he would return to his home in Texas to decide what to do.
"This has to be the greatest honor of my life," Mr. Perry said. "Our country was in trouble, and it was my duty to serve my country one more time. This campaign has never been about me."
- 
11:59 P.M. | Caucus Click: Same Hat, New Candidate 
- 
11:49 P.M. | Bachmann Stays in the Race
DES MOINES - Michele Bachmann declined to drop out of the Republican presidential contest despite having come in last in the Iowa caucus, receiving only about five percent of the vote.
Speaking to her supporters, Mrs. Bachmann said that "the people of Iowa have spoken."
But she declined to indicate whether she would drop out of the race in the near future, saying that "there are many more chapters to be written on our path to the nomination."
Mrs. Bachmann railed against President Obama in her remarks, saying that the country would undo what she called "Barack Obama's socialized medicine." 
She added: "We have strayed from the vision of our founders view of government."
- 
11:44 P.M. | The Gingrich Effect on Romney Supporters 
DES MOINES - Nothing quiets the Mitt Romney crowd like Newt Gingrich.
When Mr. Gingrich appeared on the oversize projection screen in the Romney caucus night headquarters, the hundreds gathered in the ballroom of the Hotel Fort Des Moines grew silent to watch Mr. Gingrich give his caucus night speech.
They cheered when Mr. Gingrich said that the most important thing in November was beating President Obama, but then the catcalls set in. When Mr. Gingrich took a moment to congratulate Rick Santorum, who was still going neck and neck with Mr. Romney for first place, the crowd let out some boos. And when Mr. Gingrich said that Mr. Santorum had run a clean campaign "unlike some of the candidates" - a veiled allusion to Mr. Romney, whose super PACs have gone up on the air with negative advertisements - an "oh no he didn't" hiss rippled through the room.
Later, when Mr. Gingrich touted his own campaign for its positive message, saying he'd never run negative ads, a man in the crowd quipped, "Because you don't have the budget."
The boos subsided to make way for a disappointed hush, when Fox News showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled back ahead of Mr. Romney. But the sight of the Fox News anchors pulling out a calculator and struggling to figure out how many votes Mr. Santorum was ahead by - that'd be 28,201 minus 28,056 for you middle school math students - cheered up the room, sending a ripple of laughter throughout.
- 
11:38 P.M. | Gingrich Promises 'Great Debate' in N.H.
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich promised that a "great debate" in the Republican party will begin Wednesday in New Hampshire as he lashed out at Mitt Romney as a "Massachusetts moderate" who would not fundamentally fix the country's problems.
Conceding that he had not placed in the top three in Iowa, Mr. Gingrich nevertheless vowed to continue and blasted the process of negative campaigning that he said held his campaign down.
"There will be a great debate in the Republican party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said to an enthusiastic crowd at his election night party.
Mr. Gingrich vowed to be the one to wage that debate with Mr. Romney, whom he described as too much a part of the Washington establishment to change the way the city works.
He said Mr. Romney would "be pretty good at managing the decay" but said he would not be able to change the basic structure of the way politics works.
Having said repeatedly over the past several weeks that he will only run a positive campaign, Mr. Gingrich said he will not suddenly turn around and launch "gotcha" ads.
"But I do reserve the right to tell the truth," he said, and if that seems negative, it is more of a commentary on Mr. Romney's record, he said.
"This is a debate that begins tomorrow, in New Hampshire, and will go on for months," he said.
Mr. Gingrich also promised a showdown with Mr. Paul at the next debates this weekend over the Texas congressman's hands-off policy toward Iran.
"His views on foreign policy I think are stunningly dangerous for the survival of the United States,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
11:25 P.M. | 'Lovin' It' at the Santorum Ballroom 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - "I'm lovin' it!" shouted Lynn Rodgers as she stood in front of a television tuned to Fox News.
A graphic on screen had just shown a tie between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Ms. Rodgers, 47, from Boone, was one of a few hundred supporters who packed into a hotel ballroom here in this Des Moines suburb waiting for Mr. Santorum to emerge.
"He was at the bottom of my list," she said, echoing the sentiment from many Iowans who have switched their votes to Mr. Santorum. "And when he came to Des Moines, I said to my husband, well, I guess I've got to go see him."
She said she was glad she did. "He may be a politician, but he's genuine. He's honest." 
The energy around her was palpable.
"Is the room officially stoked that even this gets a reaction?" said a supporter who merely tapped the microphone and drew cheers from the crowd.
"We pick Rick!" they chanted.
- 
11:15 P.M. | Paul Concedes the Top Two Spots
DES MOINES - Ron Paul claimed one of the three tickets out of Iowa after results showed him trailing the two leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
But even though he didn't take first or second place, he said his was only "one of two that can actually raise a national campaign and can raise the money."
Mr. Paul spoke to his supporters around 10 p.m. Central time and said there was "nothing to be ashamed of" in placing third in the Iowa contest.
"This movement will continue," he pledged.
Mr. Paul said that his campaign would go on to New Hampshire and the other states that follow.
"We will go on, we will raise the money," he said. "I have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be there."
Many of his supporters were disappointed that he was on track a third-place finish. But they did not show any of that, and they hollered for Mr. Paul as he began to speak.
"We love you Ron!" one woman shouted. "Preach it!" a man yelled.
Mr. Paul said the campaign had succeeded in "reintroducing some ideas that Republicans have needed for a long time."
"This is the conviction that freedom is popular," he said to cheers. "This movement is going to continue and we are going to keep scoring. We will go on, we will raise the money, and I have no doubt about the volunteers."
He added that he was "ready and raring to move on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire."
The crowd remained enthusiastic all night. But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
In the end, it didn't happen, and now Mr. Paul will focus on New Hampshire, where he has a strong organization, but Mitt Romney has a commanding lead in the polls.
- 
11:12 P.M. | CNN Projects! And Still Awaits a Winner
DES MOINES - Wait! Stop the presses! CNN has just projected . . . everything except the top two spots.
In what may be a first of its kind, the network announced that it was able to project who would come in third through seventh. (In order, according to CNN: Paul, Gingrich, Perry, Bachmann, Huntsman.) 
But alas - with just a fraction of votes separating Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - the network (and everyone else, frankly) was unable to project the winner.
That's not CNN's fault. The numbers are just that close.
But it made for a funny TV moment.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Glamour-Free at the Romney Ballroom
DES MOINES - Mr. Romney's ballroom was crowded but largely free of glamour as a group of supporters and grass-roots volunteers piled in to wait for the county-by-county returns. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah sat off to the side, gamely giving interviews, and The Boston Globe's Matt Viser - a dead ringer for Mr. Romney's youngest son, Craig - wandered around the hotel, looking a lot like, well, Craig Romney.
"I'm wishing for a Huckabee Chuck Norris moment," said a wistful television producer, referring to the caucuses four years ago, when, in a bizarre twist, Mike Huckabee went onstage more than once to introduce Mr. Norris as the main attraction. 
Asked about the evening's star power, an aide staffing the ballroom entrance joked: "Brad Pitt is going to be coming through that door in 20 minutes." (We waited, but Mr. Pitt was not forthcoming, though Tagg Romney turned a few heads as he walked through the hotel corridor.)
Perhaps the most glamorous attendees of the night were Mr. Romney's team of advance staff members - they'd traded their usual road warrior clothes for sharp dark suits, and were dashing around whispering into their wristpieces like the men of "Ocean's Eleven."
- 
11:03 P.M. | Paul Party Hoping for Momentum
ANKENY, Iowa - The crowd here cheered and hollered when the camera showed them on television.
But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
- 
10:59 P.M. | Romney Crowd Looking for Results to Cheer
DES MOINES - In the hot and overstuffed ballroom of the Hotel Fort, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announce that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than the one they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live free or die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mr. Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
DES MOINES - As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged its caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second-floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had decided to support his underdog candidacy just in the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," said Ms. Kilgore, 58. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few had predicted that he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood, N.H.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. His advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fund-raising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," said Mrs. Gingrich, who was wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHELE BACHMANN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



125 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10672 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard
 Download the Election 2012 iPhone App
Twitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
1:25 A.M. | Romney Addresses Supporters in Des Moines
0:54 A.M. | Santorum Celebrates Strong Finish 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - Rick Santorum often speaks in biblical terms, weaving references to God and Christian faith into his speeches on the campaign trail.
And before a national audience on Tuesday night, he offered a glimpse of how large a theme religion will be in his quest for the Republican nomination.
In a few short minutes, Mr. Santorum quoted C.S. Lewis, the author and Christian theologian. "A friend is someone who knows the song in your heart and can sing it back to you when you've forgotten the words."
He made a case for the role faith plays in building strong communities. "When the family breaks down, the economy struggles."
And he credited God with his strong showing in the caucuses here. "For giving me his grace every day, for loving me, warts and all, I offer a public thanks to God."
Mr. Santorum used his speech on Tuesday night, a modified version of the one he has been giving to voters in all 99 counties across Iowa over the last several months, to cast the race as a struggle to allow good to prevail. And he portrayed President Obama as on the opposite side of that fight.
His supporters, he said, "are the same people who President Obama talked about clinging to their guns and their bibles. Thank God they do."
"They share our values about faith and family. They understand that when the family breaks down, the economy struggles. They understand that when families aren't there to instill values into their children and to their neighbors as little league coaches, as good neighbors, as fathers and mothers being part of the community, that the neighborhood is not safe. And they are not free."
With their votes, "You have taken the first step of taking back this country," he said.
Mr. Santorum, a Roman Catholic, said he sees that vision carrying him beyond states like New Hampshire and South Carolina, which will hold their primaries later this month.
"The message I shared with you tonight is not an Iowa message or an Iowa and South Carolina message. It is a message that will resonate across this land."
- 
0:06 A.M. | Perry to Return to Texas to Assess Campaign
DES MOINES - Rick Perry said Tuesday night that he will return to Texas to "assess" whether there is a path for him to continue in the presidential campaign.
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, came in fifth in the Iowa caucuses, a disappointing finish after quickly - but briefly - jumping into first place in the race this summer. 
In less than five months, his candidacy went from first to almost last, brought down by several bad debate performances that robbed his campaign of much-needed momentum.
Mr. Perry had said he would take the campaign directly to South Carolina, skipping New Hampshire to fight on in the conservative southern state.
But Mr. Perry said on Tuesday night that he had changed his mind. He did not officially drop out of the race, but said he would return to his home in Texas to decide what to do.
"This has to be the greatest honor of my life," Mr. Perry said. "Our country was in trouble, and it was my duty to serve my country one more time. This campaign has never been about me."
- 
11:59 P.M. | Caucus Click: Same Hat, New Candidate 
- 
11:49 P.M. | Bachmann Stays in the Race
DES MOINES - Michele Bachmann declined to drop out of the Republican presidential contest despite having come in last in the Iowa caucus, receiving only about five percent of the vote.
Speaking to her supporters, Mrs. Bachmann said that "the people of Iowa have spoken."
But she declined to indicate whether she would drop out of the race in the near future, saying that "there are many more chapters to be written on our path to the nomination."
Mrs. Bachmann railed against President Obama in her remarks, saying that the country would undo what she called "Barack Obama's socialized medicine." 
She added: "We have strayed from the vision of our founders view of government."
- 
11:44 P.M. | The Gingrich Effect on Romney Supporters 
DES MOINES - Nothing quiets the Mitt Romney crowd like Newt Gingrich.
When Mr. Gingrich appeared on the oversize projection screen in the Romney caucus night headquarters, the hundreds gathered in the ballroom of the Hotel Fort Des Moines grew silent to watch Mr. Gingrich give his caucus night speech.
They cheered when Mr. Gingrich said that the most important thing in November was beating President Obama, but then the catcalls set in. When Mr. Gingrich took a moment to congratulate Rick Santorum, who was still going neck and neck with Mr. Romney for first place, the crowd let out some boos. And when Mr. Gingrich said that Mr. Santorum had run a clean campaign "unlike some of the candidates" - a veiled allusion to Mr. Romney, whose super PACs have gone up on the air with negative advertisements - an "oh no he didn't" hiss rippled through the room.
Later, when Mr. Gingrich touted his own campaign for its positive message, saying he'd never run negative ads, a man in the crowd quipped, "Because you don't have the budget."
The boos subsided to make way for a disappointed hush, when Fox News showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled back ahead of Mr. Romney. But the sight of the Fox News anchors pulling out a calculator and struggling to figure out how many votes Mr. Santorum was ahead by - that'd be 28,201 minus 28,056 for you middle school math students - cheered up the room, sending a ripple of laughter throughout.
- 
11:38 P.M. | Gingrich Promises 'Great Debate' in N.H.
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich promised that a "great debate" in the Republican party will begin Wednesday in New Hampshire as he lashed out at Mitt Romney as a "Massachusetts moderate" who would not fundamentally fix the country's problems.
Conceding that he had not placed in the top three in Iowa, Mr. Gingrich nevertheless vowed to continue and blasted the process of negative campaigning that he said held his campaign down.
"There will be a great debate in the Republican party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said to an enthusiastic crowd at his election night party.
Mr. Gingrich vowed to be the one to wage that debate with Mr. Romney, whom he described as too much a part of the Washington establishment to change the way the city works.
He said Mr. Romney would "be pretty good at managing the decay" but said he would not be able to change the basic structure of the way politics works.
Having said repeatedly over the past several weeks that he will only run a positive campaign, Mr. Gingrich said he will not suddenly turn around and launch "gotcha" ads.
"But I do reserve the right to tell the truth," he said, and if that seems negative, it is more of a commentary on Mr. Romney's record, he said.
"This is a debate that begins tomorrow, in New Hampshire, and will go on for months," he said.
Mr. Gingrich also promised a showdown with Mr. Paul at the next debates this weekend over the Texas congressman's hands-off policy toward Iran.
"His views on foreign policy I think are stunningly dangerous for the survival of the United States,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
11:25 P.M. | 'Lovin' It' at the Santorum Ballroom 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - "I'm lovin' it!" shouted Lynn Rodgers as she stood in front of a television tuned to Fox News.
A graphic on screen had just shown a tie between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Ms. Rodgers, 47, from Boone, was one of a few hundred supporters who packed into a hotel ballroom here in this Des Moines suburb waiting for Mr. Santorum to emerge.
"He was at the bottom of my list," she said, echoing the sentiment from many Iowans who have switched their votes to Mr. Santorum. "And when he came to Des Moines, I said to my husband, well, I guess I've got to go see him."
She said she was glad she did. "He may be a politician, but he's genuine. He's honest." 
The energy around her was palpable.
"Is the room officially stoked that even this gets a reaction?" said a supporter who merely tapped the microphone and drew cheers from the crowd.
"We pick Rick!" they chanted.
- 
11:15 P.M. | Paul Concedes the Top Two Spots
DES MOINES - Ron Paul claimed one of the three tickets out of Iowa after results showed him trailing the two leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
But even though he didn't take first or second place, he said his was only "one of two that can actually raise a national campaign and can raise the money."
Mr. Paul spoke to his supporters around 10 p.m. Central time and said there was "nothing to be ashamed of" in placing third in the Iowa contest.
"This movement will continue," he pledged.
Mr. Paul said that his campaign would go on to New Hampshire and the other states that follow.
"We will go on, we will raise the money," he said. "I have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be there."
Many of his supporters were disappointed that he was on track a third-place finish. But they did not show any of that, and they hollered for Mr. Paul as he began to speak.
"We love you Ron!" one woman shouted. "Preach it!" a man yelled.
Mr. Paul said the campaign had succeeded in "reintroducing some ideas that Republicans have needed for a long time."
"This is the conviction that freedom is popular," he said to cheers. "This movement is going to continue and we are going to keep scoring. We will go on, we will raise the money, and I have no doubt about the volunteers."
He added that he was "ready and raring to move on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire."
The crowd remained enthusiastic all night. But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
In the end, it didn't happen, and now Mr. Paul will focus on New Hampshire, where he has a strong organization, but Mitt Romney has a commanding lead in the polls.
- 
11:12 P.M. | CNN Projects! And Still Awaits a Winner
DES MOINES - Wait! Stop the presses! CNN has just projected . . . everything except the top two spots.
In what may be a first of its kind, the network announced that it was able to project who would come in third through seventh. (In order, according to CNN: Paul, Gingrich, Perry, Bachmann, Huntsman.) 
But alas - with just a fraction of votes separating Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - the network (and everyone else, frankly) was unable to project the winner.
That's not CNN's fault. The numbers are just that close.
But it made for a funny TV moment.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Glamour-Free at the Romney Ballroom
DES MOINES - Mr. Romney's ballroom was crowded but largely free of glamour as a group of supporters and grass-roots volunteers piled in to wait for the county-by-county returns. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah sat off to the side, gamely giving interviews, and The Boston Globe's Matt Viser - a dead ringer for Mr. Romney's youngest son, Craig - wandered around the hotel, looking a lot like, well, Craig Romney.
"I'm wishing for a Huckabee Chuck Norris moment," said a wistful television producer, referring to the caucuses four years ago, when, in a bizarre twist, Mike Huckabee went onstage more than once to introduce Mr. Norris as the main attraction. 
Asked about the evening's star power, an aide staffing the ballroom entrance joked: "Brad Pitt is going to be coming through that door in 20 minutes." (We waited, but Mr. Pitt was not forthcoming, though Tagg Romney turned a few heads as he walked through the hotel corridor.)
Perhaps the most glamorous attendees of the night were Mr. Romney's team of advance staff members - they'd traded their usual road warrior clothes for sharp dark suits, and were dashing around whispering into their wristpieces like the men of "Ocean's Eleven."
- 
11:03 P.M. | Paul Party Hoping for Momentum
ANKENY, Iowa - The crowd here cheered and hollered when the camera showed them on television.
But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
- 
10:59 P.M. | Romney Crowd Looking for Results to Cheer
DES MOINES - In the hot and overstuffed ballroom of the Hotel Fort, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announce that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than the one they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live free or die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mr. Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
DES MOINES - As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged its caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second-floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had decided to support his underdog candidacy just in the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," said Ms. Kilgore, 58. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few had predicted that he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood, N.H.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. His advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fund-raising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," said Mrs. Gingrich, who was wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); RELIGION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); FAMILY (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



126 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10714 words

HEADLINE: The Caucus: Iowa Caucus Live Blog

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard | Download the Election 2012 iPhone AppTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
2:14 A.M. | Still Too Close to Call
As of 2:15 a.m., the Iowa G.O.P. had yet to declare a winner between Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
We're wrapping up our live coverage here tonight. Thanks for following along. Check out nytimes.com for full results.
1:25 A.M. | Romney Addresses Supporters in Des Moines
0:54 A.M. | Santorum Celebrates Strong Finish 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - Rick Santorum often speaks in biblical terms, weaving references to God and Christian faith into his speeches on the campaign trail.
And before a national audience on Tuesday night, he offered a glimpse of how large a theme religion will be in his quest for the Republican nomination.
In a few short minutes, Mr. Santorum quoted C.S. Lewis, the author and Christian theologian. "A friend is someone who knows the song in your heart and can sing it back to you when you've forgotten the words."
He made a case for the role faith plays in building strong communities. "When the family breaks down, the economy struggles."
And he credited God with his strong showing in the caucuses here. "For giving me his grace every day, for loving me, warts and all, I offer a public thanks to God."
Mr. Santorum used his speech on Tuesday night, a modified version of the one he has been giving to voters in all 99 counties across Iowa over the last several months, to cast the race as a struggle to allow good to prevail. And he portrayed President Obama as on the opposite side of that fight.
His supporters, he said, "are the same people who President Obama talked about clinging to their guns and their bibles. Thank God they do."
"They share our values about faith and family. They understand that when the family breaks down, the economy struggles. They understand that when families aren't there to instill values into their children and to their neighbors as little league coaches, as good neighbors, as fathers and mothers being part of the community, that the neighborhood is not safe. And they are not free."
With their votes, "You have taken the first step of taking back this country," he said.
Mr. Santorum, a Roman Catholic, said he sees that vision carrying him beyond states like New Hampshire and South Carolina, which will hold their primaries later this month.
"The message I shared with you tonight is not an Iowa message or an Iowa and South Carolina message. It is a message that will resonate across this land."
- 
0:06 A.M. | Perry to Return to Texas to Assess Campaign
DES MOINES - Rick Perry said Tuesday night that he will return to Texas to "assess" whether there is a path for him to continue in the presidential campaign.
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, came in fifth in the Iowa caucuses, a disappointing finish after quickly - but briefly - jumping into first place in the race this summer. 
In less than five months, his candidacy went from first to almost last, brought down by several bad debate performances that robbed his campaign of much-needed momentum.
Mr. Perry had said he would take the campaign directly to South Carolina, skipping New Hampshire to fight on in the conservative southern state.
But Mr. Perry said on Tuesday night that he had changed his mind. He did not officially drop out of the race, but said he would return to his home in Texas to decide what to do.
"This has to be the greatest honor of my life," Mr. Perry said. "Our country was in trouble, and it was my duty to serve my country one more time. This campaign has never been about me."
- 
11:59 P.M. | Caucus Click: Same Hat, New Candidate 
- 
11:49 P.M. | Bachmann Stays in the Race
DES MOINES - Michele Bachmann declined to drop out of the Republican presidential contest despite having come in last in the Iowa caucus, receiving only about five percent of the vote.
Speaking to her supporters, Mrs. Bachmann said that "the people of Iowa have spoken."
But she declined to indicate whether she would drop out of the race in the near future, saying that "there are many more chapters to be written on our path to the nomination."
Mrs. Bachmann railed against President Obama in her remarks, saying that the country would undo what she called "Barack Obama's socialized medicine." 
She added: "We have strayed from the vision of our founders view of government."
- 
11:44 P.M. | The Gingrich Effect on Romney Supporters 
DES MOINES - Nothing quiets the Mitt Romney crowd like Newt Gingrich.
When Mr. Gingrich appeared on the oversize projection screen in the Romney caucus night headquarters, the hundreds gathered in the ballroom of the Hotel Fort Des Moines grew silent to watch Mr. Gingrich give his caucus night speech.
They cheered when Mr. Gingrich said that the most important thing in November was beating President Obama, but then the catcalls set in. When Mr. Gingrich took a moment to congratulate Rick Santorum, who was still going neck and neck with Mr. Romney for first place, the crowd let out some boos. And when Mr. Gingrich said that Mr. Santorum had run a clean campaign "unlike some of the candidates" - a veiled allusion to Mr. Romney, whose super PACs have gone up on the air with negative advertisements - an "oh no he didn't" hiss rippled through the room.
Later, when Mr. Gingrich touted his own campaign for its positive message, saying he'd never run negative ads, a man in the crowd quipped, "Because you don't have the budget."
The boos subsided to make way for a disappointed hush, when Fox News showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled back ahead of Mr. Romney. But the sight of the Fox News anchors pulling out a calculator and struggling to figure out how many votes Mr. Santorum was ahead by - that'd be 28,201 minus 28,056 for you middle school math students - cheered up the room, sending a ripple of laughter throughout.
- 
11:38 P.M. | Gingrich Promises 'Great Debate' in N.H.
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich promised that a "great debate" in the Republican party will begin Wednesday in New Hampshire as he lashed out at Mitt Romney as a "Massachusetts moderate" who would not fundamentally fix the country's problems.
Conceding that he had not placed in the top three in Iowa, Mr. Gingrich nevertheless vowed to continue and blasted the process of negative campaigning that he said held his campaign down.
"There will be a great debate in the Republican party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said to an enthusiastic crowd at his election night party.
Mr. Gingrich vowed to be the one to wage that debate with Mr. Romney, whom he described as too much a part of the Washington establishment to change the way the city works.
He said Mr. Romney would "be pretty good at managing the decay" but said he would not be able to change the basic structure of the way politics works.
Having said repeatedly over the past several weeks that he will only run a positive campaign, Mr. Gingrich said he will not suddenly turn around and launch "gotcha" ads.
"But I do reserve the right to tell the truth," he said, and if that seems negative, it is more of a commentary on Mr. Romney's record, he said.
"This is a debate that begins tomorrow, in New Hampshire, and will go on for months," he said.
Mr. Gingrich also promised a showdown with Mr. Paul at the next debates this weekend over the Texas congressman's hands-off policy toward Iran.
"His views on foreign policy I think are stunningly dangerous for the survival of the United States,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
11:25 P.M. | 'Lovin' It' at the Santorum Ballroom 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - "I'm lovin' it!" shouted Lynn Rodgers as she stood in front of a television tuned to Fox News.
A graphic on screen had just shown a tie between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Ms. Rodgers, 47, from Boone, was one of a few hundred supporters who packed into a hotel ballroom here in this Des Moines suburb waiting for Mr. Santorum to emerge.
"He was at the bottom of my list," she said, echoing the sentiment from many Iowans who have switched their votes to Mr. Santorum. "And when he came to Des Moines, I said to my husband, well, I guess I've got to go see him."
She said she was glad she did. "He may be a politician, but he's genuine. He's honest." 
The energy around her was palpable.
"Is the room officially stoked that even this gets a reaction?" said a supporter who merely tapped the microphone and drew cheers from the crowd.
"We pick Rick!" they chanted.
- 
11:15 P.M. | Paul Concedes the Top Two Spots
DES MOINES - Ron Paul claimed one of the three tickets out of Iowa after results showed him trailing the two leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
But even though he didn't take first or second place, he said his was only "one of two that can actually raise a national campaign and can raise the money."
Mr. Paul spoke to his supporters around 10 p.m. Central time and said there was "nothing to be ashamed of" in placing third in the Iowa contest.
"This movement will continue," he pledged.
Mr. Paul said that his campaign would go on to New Hampshire and the other states that follow.
"We will go on, we will raise the money," he said. "I have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be there."
Many of his supporters were disappointed that he was on track a third-place finish. But they did not show any of that, and they hollered for Mr. Paul as he began to speak.
"We love you Ron!" one woman shouted. "Preach it!" a man yelled.
Mr. Paul said the campaign had succeeded in "reintroducing some ideas that Republicans have needed for a long time."
"This is the conviction that freedom is popular," he said to cheers. "This movement is going to continue and we are going to keep scoring. We will go on, we will raise the money, and I have no doubt about the volunteers."
He added that he was "ready and raring to move on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire."
The crowd remained enthusiastic all night. But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
In the end, it didn't happen, and now Mr. Paul will focus on New Hampshire, where he has a strong organization, but Mitt Romney has a commanding lead in the polls.
- 
11:12 P.M. | CNN Projects! And Still Awaits a Winner
DES MOINES - Wait! Stop the presses! CNN has just projected . . . everything except the top two spots.
In what may be a first of its kind, the network announced that it was able to project who would come in third through seventh. (In order, according to CNN: Paul, Gingrich, Perry, Bachmann, Huntsman.) 
But alas - with just a fraction of votes separating Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - the network (and everyone else, frankly) was unable to project the winner.
That's not CNN's fault. The numbers are just that close.
But it made for a funny TV moment.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Glamour-Free at the Romney Ballroom
DES MOINES - Mr. Romney's ballroom was crowded but largely free of glamour as a group of supporters and grass-roots volunteers piled in to wait for the county-by-county returns. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah sat off to the side, gamely giving interviews, and The Boston Globe's Matt Viser - a dead ringer for Mr. Romney's youngest son, Craig - wandered around the hotel, looking a lot like, well, Craig Romney.
"I'm wishing for a Huckabee Chuck Norris moment," said a wistful television producer, referring to the caucuses four years ago, when, in a bizarre twist, Mike Huckabee went onstage more than once to introduce Mr. Norris as the main attraction. 
Asked about the evening's star power, an aide staffing the ballroom entrance joked: "Brad Pitt is going to be coming through that door in 20 minutes." (We waited, but Mr. Pitt was not forthcoming, though Tagg Romney turned a few heads as he walked through the hotel corridor.)
Perhaps the most glamorous attendees of the night were Mr. Romney's team of advance staff members - they'd traded their usual road warrior clothes for sharp dark suits, and were dashing around whispering into their wristpieces like the men of "Ocean's Eleven."
- 
11:03 P.M. | Paul Party Hoping for Momentum
ANKENY, Iowa - The crowd here cheered and hollered when the camera showed them on television.
But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
- 
10:59 P.M. | Romney Crowd Looking for Results to Cheer
DES MOINES - In the hot and overstuffed ballroom of the Hotel Fort, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announce that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than the one they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live free or die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mr. Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
DES MOINES - As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged its caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second-floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had decided to support his underdog candidacy just in the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," said Ms. Kilgore, 58. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few had predicted that he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood, N.H.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. His advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fund-raising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," said Mrs. Gingrich, who was wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.
- 

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); RELIGION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); FAMILY (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



127 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 10718 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucus Live Blog

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis as the 2012 nominating contests begin. 

 BODY:
Caucusgoers all over Iowa are gathering in their communities Tuesday night to pick a Republican nominee for president. The Times's political unit is on the ground in the Hawkeye State -- with the candidates and at the caucus sites -- to provide live updates and analysis of the 2012 nominating contests. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight. 
Live Dashboard | Download the Election 2012 iPhone AppTwitter: @thecaucus | The Times Political Unit | @fivethirtyeightResults
4:57 A.M. | Iowa G.O.P. Declares Romney Winner
At just before 3 a.m. Eastern time on Wednesday, the chairman of the Iowa Republican Party went on television to announce the official result: Mitt Romney had beaten Rick Santorum by eight votes out of 60,022 cast for the two men.
- 
1:25 A.M. | Romney Addresses Supporters in Des Moines
0:54 A.M. | Santorum Celebrates Strong Finish 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - Rick Santorum often speaks in biblical terms, weaving references to God and Christian faith into his speeches on the campaign trail.
And before a national audience on Tuesday night, he offered a glimpse of how large a theme religion will be in his quest for the Republican nomination.
In a few short minutes, Mr. Santorum quoted C.S. Lewis, the author and Christian theologian. "A friend is someone who knows the song in your heart and can sing it back to you when you've forgotten the words."
He made a case for the role faith plays in building strong communities. "When the family breaks down, the economy struggles."
And he credited God with his strong showing in the caucuses here. "For giving me his grace every day, for loving me, warts and all, I offer a public thanks to God."
Mr. Santorum used his speech on Tuesday night, a modified version of the one he has been giving to voters in all 99 counties across Iowa over the last several months, to cast the race as a struggle to allow good to prevail. And he portrayed President Obama as on the opposite side of that fight.
His supporters, he said, "are the same people who President Obama talked about clinging to their guns and their bibles. Thank God they do."
"They share our values about faith and family. They understand that when the family breaks down, the economy struggles. They understand that when families aren't there to instill values into their children and to their neighbors as little league coaches, as good neighbors, as fathers and mothers being part of the community, that the neighborhood is not safe. And they are not free."
With their votes, "You have taken the first step of taking back this country," he said.
Mr. Santorum, a Roman Catholic, said he sees that vision carrying him beyond states like New Hampshire and South Carolina, which will hold their primaries later this month.
"The message I shared with you tonight is not an Iowa message or an Iowa and South Carolina message. It is a message that will resonate across this land."
- 
0:06 A.M. | Perry to Return to Texas to Assess Campaign
DES MOINES - Rick Perry said Tuesday night that he will return to Texas to "assess" whether there is a path for him to continue in the presidential campaign.
Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas, came in fifth in the Iowa caucuses, a disappointing finish after quickly - but briefly - jumping into first place in the race this summer. 
In less than five months, his candidacy went from first to almost last, brought down by several bad debate performances that robbed his campaign of much-needed momentum.
Mr. Perry had said he would take the campaign directly to South Carolina, skipping New Hampshire to fight on in the conservative southern state.
But Mr. Perry said on Tuesday night that he had changed his mind. He did not officially drop out of the race, but said he would return to his home in Texas to decide what to do.
"This has to be the greatest honor of my life," Mr. Perry said. "Our country was in trouble, and it was my duty to serve my country one more time. This campaign has never been about me."
- 
11:59 P.M. | Caucus Click: Same Hat, New Candidate 
- 
11:49 P.M. | Bachmann Stays in the Race
DES MOINES - Michele Bachmann declined to drop out of the Republican presidential contest despite having come in last in the Iowa caucus, receiving only about five percent of the vote.
Speaking to her supporters, Mrs. Bachmann said that "the people of Iowa have spoken."
But she declined to indicate whether she would drop out of the race in the near future, saying that "there are many more chapters to be written on our path to the nomination."
Mrs. Bachmann railed against President Obama in her remarks, saying that the country would undo what she called "Barack Obama's socialized medicine." 
She added: "We have strayed from the vision of our founders view of government."
- 
11:44 P.M. | The Gingrich Effect on Romney Supporters 
DES MOINES - Nothing quiets the Mitt Romney crowd like Newt Gingrich.
When Mr. Gingrich appeared on the oversize projection screen in the Romney caucus night headquarters, the hundreds gathered in the ballroom of the Hotel Fort Des Moines grew silent to watch Mr. Gingrich give his caucus night speech.
They cheered when Mr. Gingrich said that the most important thing in November was beating President Obama, but then the catcalls set in. When Mr. Gingrich took a moment to congratulate Rick Santorum, who was still going neck and neck with Mr. Romney for first place, the crowd let out some boos. And when Mr. Gingrich said that Mr. Santorum had run a clean campaign "unlike some of the candidates" - a veiled allusion to Mr. Romney, whose super PACs have gone up on the air with negative advertisements - an "oh no he didn't" hiss rippled through the room.
Later, when Mr. Gingrich touted his own campaign for its positive message, saying he'd never run negative ads, a man in the crowd quipped, "Because you don't have the budget."
The boos subsided to make way for a disappointed hush, when Fox News showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled back ahead of Mr. Romney. But the sight of the Fox News anchors pulling out a calculator and struggling to figure out how many votes Mr. Santorum was ahead by - that'd be 28,201 minus 28,056 for you middle school math students - cheered up the room, sending a ripple of laughter throughout.
- 
11:38 P.M. | Gingrich Promises 'Great Debate' in N.H.
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich promised that a "great debate" in the Republican party will begin Wednesday in New Hampshire as he lashed out at Mitt Romney as a "Massachusetts moderate" who would not fundamentally fix the country's problems.
Conceding that he had not placed in the top three in Iowa, Mr. Gingrich nevertheless vowed to continue and blasted the process of negative campaigning that he said held his campaign down.
"There will be a great debate in the Republican party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama," Mr. Gingrich said to an enthusiastic crowd at his election night party.
Mr. Gingrich vowed to be the one to wage that debate with Mr. Romney, whom he described as too much a part of the Washington establishment to change the way the city works.
He said Mr. Romney would "be pretty good at managing the decay" but said he would not be able to change the basic structure of the way politics works.
Having said repeatedly over the past several weeks that he will only run a positive campaign, Mr. Gingrich said he will not suddenly turn around and launch "gotcha" ads.
"But I do reserve the right to tell the truth," he said, and if that seems negative, it is more of a commentary on Mr. Romney's record, he said.
"This is a debate that begins tomorrow, in New Hampshire, and will go on for months," he said.
Mr. Gingrich also promised a showdown with Mr. Paul at the next debates this weekend over the Texas congressman's hands-off policy toward Iran.
"His views on foreign policy I think are stunningly dangerous for the survival of the United States,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
- 
11:25 P.M. | 'Lovin' It' at the Santorum Ballroom 
JOHNSTON, Iowa - "I'm lovin' it!" shouted Lynn Rodgers as she stood in front of a television tuned to Fox News.
A graphic on screen had just shown a tie between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Ms. Rodgers, 47, from Boone, was one of a few hundred supporters who packed into a hotel ballroom here in this Des Moines suburb waiting for Mr. Santorum to emerge.
"He was at the bottom of my list," she said, echoing the sentiment from many Iowans who have switched their votes to Mr. Santorum. "And when he came to Des Moines, I said to my husband, well, I guess I've got to go see him."
She said she was glad she did. "He may be a politician, but he's genuine. He's honest." 
The energy around her was palpable.
"Is the room officially stoked that even this gets a reaction?" said a supporter who merely tapped the microphone and drew cheers from the crowd.
"We pick Rick!" they chanted.
- 
11:15 P.M. | Paul Concedes the Top Two Spots
DES MOINES - Ron Paul claimed one of the three tickets out of Iowa after results showed him trailing the two leaders in the race, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum.
But even though he didn't take first or second place, he said his was only "one of two that can actually raise a national campaign and can raise the money."
Mr. Paul spoke to his supporters around 10 p.m. Central time and said there was "nothing to be ashamed of" in placing third in the Iowa contest.
"This movement will continue," he pledged.
Mr. Paul said that his campaign would go on to New Hampshire and the other states that follow.
"We will go on, we will raise the money," he said. "I have no doubt about the volunteers. They are going to be there."
Many of his supporters were disappointed that he was on track a third-place finish. But they did not show any of that, and they hollered for Mr. Paul as he began to speak.
"We love you Ron!" one woman shouted. "Preach it!" a man yelled.
Mr. Paul said the campaign had succeeded in "reintroducing some ideas that Republicans have needed for a long time."
"This is the conviction that freedom is popular," he said to cheers. "This movement is going to continue and we are going to keep scoring. We will go on, we will raise the money, and I have no doubt about the volunteers."
He added that he was "ready and raring to move on to the next stop, which is New Hampshire."
The crowd remained enthusiastic all night. But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
In the end, it didn't happen, and now Mr. Paul will focus on New Hampshire, where he has a strong organization, but Mitt Romney has a commanding lead in the polls.
- 
11:12 P.M. | CNN Projects! And Still Awaits a Winner
DES MOINES - Wait! Stop the presses! CNN has just projected . . . everything except the top two spots.
In what may be a first of its kind, the network announced that it was able to project who would come in third through seventh. (In order, according to CNN: Paul, Gingrich, Perry, Bachmann, Huntsman.) 
But alas - with just a fraction of votes separating Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - the network (and everyone else, frankly) was unable to project the winner.
That's not CNN's fault. The numbers are just that close.
But it made for a funny TV moment.
- 
11:06 P.M. | Glamour-Free at the Romney Ballroom
DES MOINES - Mr. Romney's ballroom was crowded but largely free of glamour as a group of supporters and grass-roots volunteers piled in to wait for the county-by-county returns. Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah sat off to the side, gamely giving interviews, and The Boston Globe's Matt Viser - a dead ringer for Mr. Romney's youngest son, Craig - wandered around the hotel, looking a lot like, well, Craig Romney.
"I'm wishing for a Huckabee Chuck Norris moment," said a wistful television producer, referring to the caucuses four years ago, when, in a bizarre twist, Mike Huckabee went onstage more than once to introduce Mr. Norris as the main attraction. 
Asked about the evening's star power, an aide staffing the ballroom entrance joked: "Brad Pitt is going to be coming through that door in 20 minutes." (We waited, but Mr. Pitt was not forthcoming, though Tagg Romney turned a few heads as he walked through the hotel corridor.)
Perhaps the most glamorous attendees of the night were Mr. Romney's team of advance staff members - they'd traded their usual road warrior clothes for sharp dark suits, and were dashing around whispering into their wristpieces like the men of "Ocean's Eleven."
- 
11:03 P.M. | Paul Party Hoping for Momentum
ANKENY, Iowa - The crowd here cheered and hollered when the camera showed them on television.
But as the evening wore on, and the results began to show Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney opening up a small lead on Mr. Paul, some supporters grew worried.
"It's a little disappointing to be in third," said Eric Thompson, a precinct coordinator for Mr. Paul. "Hopefully we can get back on top by the end of the night, so we can have some momentum."
- 
10:59 P.M. | Romney Crowd Looking for Results to Cheer
DES MOINES - In the hot and overstuffed ballroom of the Hotel Fort, the crowd was happy and upbeat, an energetic buzz humming through the room.
As CNN announced that Mr. Romney was leading with 25 percent of the vote and 79 percent of the precincts reporting, a cheer went up.
"Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!" they cheered.
Minutes later, when Wolf Blitzer came on to announce that Mr. Santorum had pulled ahead with a slight lead, a new cheer rippled through the ballroom.
"Switch to Fox, switch to Fox," came the plea. "Fox! Fox! Fox!"
- 
10:57 P.M. | Next Stops for the Candidates
DES MOINES - It's not over yet, and this could yet change. But for now, here's your handy travel guide to where the candidates are heading next: 
ROMNEY: He heads to New Hampshire on a charter flight that leaves Wednesday morning, but he's not there long. After a quick stop, he heads to South Carolina for a couple of days before returning to New Hampshire for the debates next weekend.
BACHMANN, PERRY: Both are heading straight to South Carolina, where they hope the political reception they get will be warmer than the one they received here.
PAUL: Mr. Paul has talked about campaigning everywhere, but his next stop is New Hampshire, where he thinks his brand of libertarian conservatism will mesh with the "live free or die" sentiment.
SANTORUM: He's headed to New Hampshire, too. Mr. Santorum has said he plans to travel straight to the Granite State, where he hopes to build on the momentum he received in Iowa to challenge Mr. Romney's expected hold on the state.
GINGRICH: Hammered by ads from a groups supporting Mr. Romney, Mr. Gingrich also plans to head straight to New Hampshire. And when he gets there? He says he will hit hard on Mr. Romney's record, drawing attention to what he says is Mr. Romney's liberal record.
- 
10:56 P.M. | Enthusiasm at Santorum Party
DES MOINES - As Mr. Santorum's numbers continued to rise throughout the night, a ballroom at the Stoney Creek Inn where his campaign had staged its caucus night party filled with more and more supporters. As of about 9:30 p.m. local time, with only half the precincts across Iowa reporting, Mr. Santorum remained huddled in a second-floor room with his family and his advisers watching the encouraging results stream in on their laptop computers.
Just downstairs, the crowd was breaking into cheers as they watched totals update on cable news. Many, like Linda Kilgore of nearby Altoona, had decided to support his underdog candidacy just in the last several days.
"Everything I believe in, he believes in," said Ms. Kilgore, 58. "Rick Santorum is working for every penny he's got. And people like to see that. And look, even if it took them until yesterday to realize that, they still came out tonight."
Until just a week ago, few Republicans had contemplated the idea of Mr. Santorum as a formidable competitor in the early-voting states beyond Iowa. And probably just as few had predicted that he would be able to pull off a finish near the top here.
His campaign has insisted that he will be competitive in New Hampshire, where he has not been polling well but has plans to travel to on Wednesday. He has scheduled one of his "Faith, Family and Freedom" town hall meetings, the same kind he held nearly 400 of in Iowa this year, for Wednesday night in Brentwood, N.H.
His campaign also just announced plans to begin advertising in the state this week, the first time it has been able to do so. His advisers have been counting on a strong finish in Iowa to help boost fund-raising enough to counter what is sure to be a tough fight on the airways in South Carolina and Florida.
- 
10:54 P.M. | A Confident Callista Gingrich
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich may not be having such a good night, but his wife remains feisty.
Riding in the elevator at the Des Moines Marriott tonight with the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd, Callista Gingrich said she's going to New Hampshire and then South Carolina with her husband.
"Bring on the debate," said Mrs. Gingrich, who was wearing a red jacket and carrying her bags.
- 
10:36 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Romney Dominates in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Precinct 4 in Clive remained true to its reputation as a Romney stronghold: Mitt Romney got 238 votes, the most by far. In second place is Rick Santorum, with 67 votes. Ron Paul got 53 votes and Newt Gingrich got the support of 46 voters.
Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann pulled up the rear, earning seven and five votes, respectively.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr. got one vote.
- 
10:29 P.M. | Last-Minute Decisions 
DES MOINES - One of the notable features of the Republican race throughout the year was how fickle the electorate seemed.
The polls seem to suggest that many of those voters waited until the last minute to make up their minds.
Entrance polls indicate that nearly half of the caucusgoers decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late deciders - a third of them backed him.
About half of evangelical Christians said they made up their minds within the last few days, while a majority of voters who do not describe themselves that way decided on their vote earlier. And about half of caucusgoers who strongly support the Tea Party movement said they decided late, while most voters who are neutral toward the Tea Party made up their minds earlier.
- 
10:19 P.M. | Counties to Watch
DES MOINES - It's a waiting game now.
There's only so much that the entrance polls can tell us when the votes appear to be bunched up so closely together at the top.
So the candidates and the political reporters - and you - are all just waiting as the votes trickle in to the Iowa Republican Party from all over the state.
What to do in the meantime? Head over to The New York Times's interactive map and follow along as the number of precincts reporting in each county rise, ever so slowly.
Here are some to watch: 
* Pottawattamie County: That's where Council Bluffs is located, and only about 30 percent of the precincts are in. If Rick Santorum ultimately does well there, it could raise his numbers.
* Polk County: Home to Des Moines, the biggest city in the state. It's being led by Mr. Paul now, but with only 40 percent of the precincts reporting. If Mr. Romney wins here, that's helpful to him.
* Linn County: Mitt Romney is leading here with 91 percent of the precincts reporting. That's where Cedar Rapids is. Another big city.
* Look at the western edge of the state - Sioux City and the rest of the places in the northwest part of the state. So far, none of the precincts are in yet. That could be helpful to Mr. Santorum if those areas go for him.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Caucus Click: Santorum Behind the Scenes
- 
9:59 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Paul Leads in Cedar Falls
Here's an update on the voting in Black Hawk County, one of the largest caucus sites in the state, where all precincts gathered in the 16,000-seat sports dome at the University of Northern Iowa and heard directly from Newt Gingrich and Michele Bachmann. With 62 percent of votes recorded, the results are: Ron Paul (474 votes), Rick Santorum (366), Mitt Romney (347), Mr. Gingrich (266). 
- 
9:54 P.M. | Tea Party Searches for a Candidate
DES MOINES - A year ago, the Tea Party asserted itself with force, shaping the outcome of the 2010 midterm elections and sweeping in like-minded members of Congress.
Now, with the first voting of the 2012 presidential election in motion, a new test of the Tea Party's continuing influence in the Republican Party is under way.
It appears to remain an important part of the electorate, at least in Iowa. But its influence may have been minimized by the field of candidates, who each gathered support from those who identify with the movement.
The Tea Party had strong support among Iowa's caucusgoers on Tuesday, with over 6 in 10 saying they support or strongly support the movement. However, Tea Party supporters were somewhat divided over candidates and other issues.
While Rick Santorum led among Tea Party supporters, with nearly 3 in 10 backing him, Ron Paul and Mitt Romney got the votes of about 2 in 10 Tea Party supporters.
Nearly 4 in 10 Tea Party supporters said the economy was the issue that mattered the most in deciding whom to support, while about the same number said the federal budget deficit mattered the most. And about 3 in 10 Tea Party supporters said that a candidate who could defeat Barack Obama mattered most, while about the same number said a candidate who was a true conservative was most important.
And over half of Tea Party supporters said that working in business better prepared a candidate for to serve effectively as president, while just over a third said working in government was the better preparation. Despite this, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul, who are mostly known for their work in government, drew some of their support.
- 
9:49 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Values Voting
ALTON, Iowa - Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a local bank, who ran the caucus meeting in this small town in northwest Iowa - a corner of the state that strongly backed Mike Huckabee four years ago - said he was surprised that the argument made by Mitt Romney supporters didn't win out.
"I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did," he said. "But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have."
- 
9:43 P.M. | Iowa Entrance Polls
A look at how different groups voted, broken down by gender, age, income, political philosophy and more.
- 
9:39 P.M. | Obama Speaks to Caucusing Democrats in Iowa
WASHINGTON - President Obama, back in the capital after his holiday break, was making his own speech to Iowa voters on Tuesday night, telling caucusing Democrats that he has kept the promises he made to them four years ago when his win in the Democratic caucus there electrified the country and galvanized his run for the White House.
Speaking via a video conference at the Capital Hilton, Mr. Obama touted the end of the war in Iraq, the passage of the national health care law and his efforts to make college more affordable as some of his achievements.
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: "How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?"
"That's why we need four more years," Mr. Obama said.
In all, Mr. Obama took only two questions, and then returned to the White House.
Meanwhile, the Democratic National Committee took out an advertisement in The Des Moines Register calling the policies presented by the Republican candidates for president "terrible."
- 
9:23 P.M. | A Thanks to Our Speedy Polling Unit
DES MOINES - A quick note of thanks here. The quick polling notes are courtesy of the hard-working folks at our polling unit: Dalia Sussman, Allison Kopicki and David Jones.
The numbers are still coming in, and we'll post more as the night wears on.
- 
9:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames for Paul
AMES, Iowa - Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up and raised his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the announcement that Ron Paul won the precinct here, beating Mitt Romney.
"Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul," he said, smiling as people got up to leave. "He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes."
Just minutes before, six men crowded around a table in the lobby of the auditorium, counting the ballots, a process that took longer than the entire speech process.
The final tally:
Paul - 35 votes
Romney - 30 votes
Gingrich - 26 votes
Perry - 9 votes
Santorum - 21 votes
Huntsman - 5 votes
Bachmann - 2 votes
Mack C. Shelley, the director of graduate studies in the political science department at Iowa State University, said he was a little surprised by the turnout, because the majority of university dorms have not reopened after the holiday.
He thought the low turnout from young voters might hurt Mr. Paul's chances here. "He must have a much stronger base of support here," he said.
- 
9:14 P.M. | Entrance Polls: Examining Romney's Strength
Mr. Romney is getting the most support among Iowa caucusgoers who say that defeating Mr. Obama is the most important quality in a candidate. Nearly half of voters who said defeating the president was the most important factor in choosing a candidate said they were casting their support for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney's business experience seems to have helped him attract voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality, about 3 in 10 said they would support Mr. Romney. He also garnered over a third of caucusgoers, a plurality, who said that working in business better prepares a candidate to serve effectively as president.
He is also seeing support from older caucusgoers in Iowa. Among those 65 and older, he has a plurality, with 3 in 10 voters over 65, and about a quarter of voters between 45 and 64 years old.
And Mr. Romney gets a plurality among high-income caucusgoers, with over a third of those making $100,000 or more saying they support him.
About 3 in 10 voters who said they liked their candidate but with reservations said they supported Mr. Romney tonight, and about 2 in 10 voters who said they strongly favored their candidate were supporting him.
- 
9:10 P.M. | Youth Vote Turns Out for Ron Paul
DES MOINES - Ron Paul is drawing huge support among young people, according to early entrance poll reports.
Just over half of caucusgoers under age 30 support him, a huge number in such a crowded field. Mr. Paul's support diminishes with age, dropping to just over 1 in 10 among voters age 65 and older, a group that favors Mr. Romney.
Nearly 4 in 10 caucusgoers say they have never attended a caucus before. Again, this is a big group for Mr. Paul - first-time caucusgoers back him by more than two to one over any other candidate.
Mr. Paul has long appealed to college-age students with his libertarian message and a techie-friendly approach that has rewarded him with a commanding presence online and with contributions.
His web presence and search engines have helped his campaign, which taps into the younger more tech-savvy community that tends to be comfortable online.
Other groups helping to boost Mr. Paul include independents, lower-income voters, voters who say the budget deficit was the most important issue to their vote, voters looking for a true conservative and voters who made up their minds early.
- 
9:09 P.M. | An Energetic Perry in Clive
DES MOINES - An energetic Rick Perry sought to whip up his supporters at a caucus location in Clive, urging them to "work together to get our country back."
"I'll promise you this," Mr. Perry said, reprising a line he has used repeatedly as he campaigned in this state. "You have my back in this caucus and for the next four years, I'll have your back in Washington D.C."
- 
9:03 P.M. | A Slow Start to Voting
DES MOINES - Voting at the caucuses across the state doesn't start until after every candidate's representatives have a chance to speak their mind.
And they are speaking. And speaking some more.
Reporters at several locations report that the speeches are taking longer than expected. In some cases, there were so many people that it took time to file into the auditoriums. In other cases, the speeches were just long-winded. 
"We are running pretty late here," reports The Times's Michael Barbaro, who is in Pella. "Speeches for each candidate just halfway in."
As a result, it's now nearly an hour into the caucuses, and in some locations, the voting hasn't even begun yet.
Once it does begin, the voting will go quickly. But then the counting begins. And that could take awhile.
- 
9:00 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rand Paul in Johnston
- 
8:55 P.M. | Entrance Polls Show High Evangelical Turnout 
DES MOINES - It looks like a similar proportion of evangelical voters is turning out for the caucuses this year, as compared to the four years ago.
According to preliminary entrance poll results, nearly 6 in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians. 
That could be good news for the candidates who had considered those voters to be their strongest supporters, like Mr. Santorum, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Perry.
About half of the caucusgoers have a college degree or post-graduate education, while about 2 in 10 said they had a high school education or less. Just less than two-thirds of voters have incomes over $50,000, and just over a third said their family income is under $50,000.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers said that campaign advertising was a factor in deciding whom to support; and nearly 3 in 10 said it was an important factor.
That would help quantify the impact of the negative ads that were run against Mr. Gingrich, who was at the top of the polls a month ago but fell after being hammered on television.
- 
8:52 P.M. | Gingrich and Bachmann Make Final Pitch
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Bachmann concluded their brief speeches to perhaps 1,000 early arrivals at the Black Hawk County caucus site before the voting began at 7 p.m. 
Mr. Gingrich's delivery was slower, more measured than the punched-up stump speeches he has been giving for days, perhaps a concession to the setting, a large basketball arena reminiscent of a convention hall.
He touched on the familiar themes of recent days, speaking of his role working with Ronald Reagan to turn around the economy and, in a new twist tonight, "defeat the Soviet empire." He asked voters to imagine who they would most like to debate President Obama and "refute his policies, his values and his ideas."
Without naming names, he asked voters to reject rival Republican candidates who had run negative campaigns, and thereby "send a signal to Americans." 
Before he spoke, Mrs. Bachmann gave an impassioned speech that seemed to lift her a foot out of her heels. Standing with her mother beside her, she appealed to Iowans as a native of the state - she was born here in Black Hawk County - and described America as historically a Christian country, for whom generations had sacrificed, lately under siege from President Obama's "socialism."
"I believe in Jesus Christ," she said. "I believe in standing up to protect human life from conception until natural death. I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as one man, one woman."
"Stand up, America, stand up," she said, rising to a rousing finish. "Reclaim our country."
There were a few minutes for both candidates to shake hands with knots of admirers, and then, before the first votes were cast, Mr. Gingrich was back on a bus for the two-hour drive to Des Moines, where he was scheduled to speak at a party for his workers and supporters before an 11 p.m. flight to Manchester, N.H.
- 
8:50 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Gingrich's Daughter in Clive
CLIVE, Iowa - Jackie Gingrich Cushman broke into tears while speaking on her father's behalf.
"He loves his country so much, and he knows we're in trouble," she said, sobbing, her voice cracking. She had been telling a story about how Mr. Gingrich braved icy water to save his drowning dogs.
She pulled herself together and ended on a high note.
She denounced the "very deceptive ads" against her father, but compared him to the Energizer Bunny, "he just keeps going and going."
- 
8:42 P.M. | Thune Speaks for Romney in Des Moines
DES MOINES - Senator John Thune of South Dakota is at the same elementary school in Ankeny where Ron Paul spoke just a few minutes ago.
Mr. Thune, a top supporter of Mr. Romney, did not criticize his rivals.
"They are good, quality people. They would all be an improvement over what we have in the White House today," Mr. Thune said. But, he asked, "Who is the one best position, best prepared, best qualified to defeat Barack Obama?
"I believe that person is Governor Romney."
- 
8:40 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: A Young Paul Supporter
CLIVE, Iowa - Robert Paul, grandson of Ron Paul, is yet another surprise guest. The young Mr. Paul can hardly reach the microphone. He did not give his age, but he appears to be about 9 years old.
"All we need is your vote," he said. "And thank you for all your help and support."
Kelly Paul, wife of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, is speaking now. She is talking about her father-in-law's early support of Ronald Reagan. "Ron is the only candidate in this race to predict the economic collapse years before it happened," she said. "We're standing at a crossroads of our nation's history."
"Ron Paul is the only candidate you can trust to put an end to the uncontrollable spending."
- 
8:37 P.M. | Caucus Click: Scouts in Iowa
- 
8:34 P.M. | Early Numbers From the Entrance Polls
DES MOINES - Here are some early numbers from the entrance polls, crunched by the crack New York Times polling unit:
According to preliminary entrance poll results, male and older voters made up a majority of caucusgoers tonight. About 6 in 10 caucus goers were over 50. Just over 1 in 10 were younger than 30.
Nearly two-thirds of caucusgoers support the Tea Party movement, with more than a third saying they strongly support the Tea Party movement. Just about 1 in 10 oppose the Tea Party movement, and a quarter are neutral.
More than 7 in 10 caucus attendees are Republicans, and almost 3 in 10 said they were Independents or something else.
Nearly half of Iowan caucusgoers said they consider themselves very conservative, a third consider themselves somewhat conservative and just about 2 in 10 said they are moderate.
- 
8:30 P.M. | Paul Preaches Small Government
DES MOINES - Ron Paul showed up at Crocker Elementary School in Ankeny just now. His message: small, limited government.
"Conservative to me means small government," Mr. Paul told a gymnasium full of caucusgoers. "We've gotten into our problems because we've had too many people not obeying the Constitution."
Mr. Paul urged them to support him as he waged the final minutes of his Iowa campaign.
"We have to retrench and get our economic system in order," he said.
- 
8:26 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Voting in Ames
AMES, Iowa - Speeches have ended. Mitt Romney and Ron Paul received the loudest applause. The members of the crowd are filling out their ballots.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive as Battleground
CLIVE, Iowa - The Romney campaign considered Clive a stronghold, so it is interesting that Mr. Santorum chose this location for his first pitch of the night.
Ralph Reed, leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, just showed up, too.
"I really just wanted to come by and say thank you on behalf of activists all over America."
- 
8:22 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: No One Speaks for Bachmann
ALTON, Iowa - Not one person rose here to speak on behalf of Mrs. Bachmann, who briefly led in the polls, backed by her strong evangelical support. The silence following the mention of Herman Cain and Jon Huntsman was broken only by a barely suppressed chuckle. Afterward, people began speaking on behalf of the other candidates, mentioning the debating prowess of Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul's anti-abortion record.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - As Mr. Santorum was speaking, someone accidentally turned the lights off. There were gasps and sighs. "I'll take that as a sign!" he joked.
The lights went back on after a few seconds.
"Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate," he went on. "Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done."
Mr. Santorum spoke about his socially conservative credentials, saying that America's culture, economy and national security are "built on strong families."
"You can't have limited government if you don't have free people who have strong values and strong families," he said, calling himself a leader on moral and economic issues. "I hope you will paint tonight in bold colors."
"I hope that you give us an opportunity to do that."
- 
8:20 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - After some initial mic problems, the caucus begins. "We're going to try to find a way to get a new president," said Roman Lynch, 62, a volunteer, after explaining how the caucus is going to work. No one in the crowd raised a hand to give a speech supporting Michele Bachmann. No volunteers for Jon M. Huntsman Jr. either. So we moved on to Newt Gingrich.
The crowd heckled a Gingrich supporter for listing problems with other candidates instead of the pros of a Gingrich presidency.
- 
8:16 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - Rick Santorum has made a surprise appearance, speaking for himself now.
"It is great to be here," he said, accompanied by two of his sons, John and Daniel.
He mentioned that he had completed 381 town hall meetings. "It was 'Iowa nice' every day."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: The Volunteers
ALTON, Iowa - As voters strolled into the firehouse, they were greeted by volunteers for Mr. Santorum and Mr. Perry, who handed out glossy literature and politely asked for their support.
A young married couple with local roots, Jenn and Mike Vermeer, said they had decided to support Mr. Santorum only recently after hearing his unequivocally anti-abortion message at an event. The volunteer for Mr. Perry, Wally Kinney, had traveled here from Austin to support his governor.
"We're here for the undecided people," said Ms. Vermeer, 24, an event planner.
"And there's a lot of them," added Mr. Kinney, 59, a retired consultant.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul sat on a chair making changes to a speech drafted by the campaign to make it appeal more to the local voters. "I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives because there's a lot of that here," said the volunteer, Matt Laverman, 24, who was recently elected to the City Council.
The other candidates showed no sign of having any representatives.
"With all the candidates going up and down it's been a roller coaster," said Cindy Klein, 57, a nurse. "So I've decided I'm going with the safe candidate. I am going with Romney. We have to beat Obama - that's the key."
- 
8:12 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - There's no more room. Hundreds of voters are packed shoulder to shoulder here in Clive. The caucus has officially begun, but people are still in line outside waiting to get in. Problem is, there's nowhere for them to go. The scene here would make a fire marshal nervous, that's for sure.
- 
8:08 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Doors Open in Ames
AMES, Iowa - The lobby of the City Auditorium here is getting crowded, as volunteers try to shoo caucusgoers into the 800-person auditorium. At least five people are waiting to register for the first time.
Despite the crowd, enthusiasm seems low. The two-minute warning was just announced.
Many people, though friendly, look around before admitting who they're voting for. 
"I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide," said Dino Curcio, 53, boldly before leaning in closer to whisper his name.
The age range is mixed, from 20-somethings to the elderly. Mr. Paul, who is known for his devoted following among young people, has a number of fans here already.
"He's the only man who fights for our freedoms and our liberties," said Russell Harder, 23, who just arrived with another Paul supporter.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Polls Are Now Open
DES MOINES - The polls are now open. The doors to the caucus locations across the state opened at 7 p.m. Central time. Stay tuned to this live blog for more dispatches from inside the caucuses, and for analysis of the results as we get them.
- 
7:55 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - In the battle for hearts and minds at the caucuses, it's literally neighbor against neighbor in a (friendly, for now) fight to the finish.
LouAnn and Kent Sandburg came to the caucus in Clive with their next-door neighbors Dee and Jerry Warren. And although the four sat together chatting and laughing and have a very nice relationship across their fence, they had not discussed politics until a nosy reporter came butting into their lives.
"There's a reason why it's a secret ballot," Mr. Sandburg said with a sly grin. He would not discuss his candidate, but the Warrens said they were voting for Newt Gingrich.
Speaking of Mr. Gingrich, his daughter Jackie Gingrich Cushman is here. She is going to speak on her father's behalf and try to sway the crowd, which has grown almost to the room's capacity of 300. She said her father was in high spirits tonight.
Don Lutz is another voter who arrived early. He calls himself a "Newt guy" but said he would not be casting a vote that way. He plans to vote for Mitt Romney. "I don't want to have a vote for nothing," said Mr. Lutz, who works in real estate. "I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified."
- 
7:49 P.M. | Pushing the Positives 
DES MOINES - Newt Gingrich just spoke to caucusgoers at the University of Northern Iowa in Cedar Falls, saying he was the only one who could stand up to President Obama's "billion-dollar campaign."
He also urged voters to reward what he called his "relentlessly positive" campaign and to punish anyone - Mitt Romney might have been who he had in mind - who has run what he called a "viciously negative" campaign.
"You have a chance, tonight, to send a signal to America that the constant-driven, viciously negative campaigns are totally wrong," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Gingrich said the conservative movement has an "opportunity to take advantage of all of President Obama's weaknesses," and urged caucusgoers to vote for him.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Scene From the Caucus: Pella Likes Santorum
PELLA, Iowa - An informal, unscientific but perhaps telling data point: Of five couples interviewed here in Pella, four of them said they would vote for Rick Santorum tonight, citing his strong conservative track record on social issues like gay marriage and abortion.
- 
7:41 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Alton, Iowa
ALTON, Iowa - At the Double D Bar in Alton, politics was the topic of the day, and if there was one thing everyone agreed on, it was that the current field of candidates was underwhelming.
A bastion of evangelical conservatism in Sioux County, in the northwest part of the state, Alton strongly supported Mike Huckabee four years ago, awarding him 53 percent of the vote. And though President Obama won the state in the general election, he received less than a quarter of the vote here.
At one table, six residents enjoying beers after work said they wanted a new president, but none planned to attend the caucus at the firehouse a block away.
"Santorum is the closest thing we have to Huckabee," said Richard Vander Wel, 47, an insurance and investment broker. "But there's not as much excitement."
- 
7:35 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Ames, Iowa
AMES, Iowa - Just down the street from Iowa State University, caucusgoers started trickling into the City Auditorium in downtown Ames. The campus was dark, a ghost town with many student still on holiday break for another week. Some here are nervous that not many young voters will turn out tonight. 
The auditorium is an old school from the 1970s that this midsized college town now uses for the Central Iowa Symphony and other community events. Volunteers here expect around 300 caucusgoers.
- 
7:32 P.M. | Scenes From the Caucus: Pella, Iowa
PELLA, Iowa - At Pella Christian High School, an hour drive east of Des Moines, hundreds of voters walking through the front doors were met by volunteers for Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
"Have you decided?" asked one of the Ron Paul supporters handing out leaflets.
"Yes, thank you," answered Trudy Van Wyck, 60, who waved off the papers. "I've gotten 2,000 calls already."
In an interview, it became clear why she had politely brushed off advocates for Mr. Paul. Like a number of people interviewed in this heavily conservative, evangelical town, Ms. Van Wyck said she intended to vote for Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:27 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Cedar Falls, Iowa
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - The campaign buses of Representative Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich arrived together outside the arena of University of Northern Iowa here, which is the site of one of the largest caucuses in the state. 
As many as 7,000 people are expected from Black Hawk County. 
The floor of the basketball palace is partioned by ward and precinct, with other precincts sitting together in the bowl of spectator sections. 
The candidates drew straws for speaking order. Mrs. Bachmann will address the crowd at 6:20 p.m. Central time. She has only five minutes, and then it will be Mr. Gingrich's turn at 6:25. Surrogates for the other candidates have already begun to speak, including the evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats on behalf of Rick Santorum.
A very random sample of voters taking their seats showed a cross-section of the latest polling results, with the perhaps unsurprising twist that all the couples agreed with one another. 
Scott Breakenridge, the owner of a cemetery memorial business, said he was voting for Mr. Romney. "He's honest, trustworthy, a businessman,'' he said.
"I feel the same,'' said his wife, Judy.
Carroll Kienol, who is semi-retired, said he was leaning toward Rick Perry but could be convinced to change his mind. 
"I teetered a little bit, but the only reason was because he hasn't been to Washington before," Mr. Kienol said of Mr. Perry. "But I realized we had another governor from Texas without Washington experience."
His wife, who declined to give her name, said she would vote for Mr. Perry because "he's very conservative, I like his faith."
Sue and David Bloemsma, owners of a child care center, had narrowed it down to a choice between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Bloemsma said: "I'm really leaning to Romney. I just don't know if Newt can get over all the hurdles. If Mitt had Newt's brain, I'd think we'd be in."
- 
7:23 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Clive, Iowa
CLIVE, Iowa - This well-to-do suburban town of 15,000 on the western edge of metropolitan Des Moines straddles two counties: Dallas and Polk. What might make tonight interesting is that Dallas County went for Mitt Romney in 2008, but Mike Huckabee carried Polk.
About 5:30 p.m., people began trickling into the basement conference room of a financial management company where the caucus will be held. 
Rosalea and Richard Grassman were the eager couple who were first to arrive, seated and settled with more than an hour to go before the festivities begin. This precinct is expecting 800 people in a room with a capacity for only 300, so it was smart for them to get here early.
"Four years ago, people were sitting on the floor, people were against the walls and we couldn't see anything," said Mrs. Grassman, 84, whose first caucus was for - jog your memories, folks, she admits that it was a long time ago - Dwight Eisenhower.
"We're actually hoping for a big turnout and for people to be able to speak their minds without any problems," said Mrs. Grassman, a retired secretary. "We hope our man wins, of course."
Who's their man?
Ron Paul.
"We would also be happy if he makes it to second," Mrs. Grassman said. 
- 
7:21 P.M. | How the Caucuses Work
DES MOINES - There have been many questions today about how the caucuses actually work (see my Facebookchat this afternoon for some of the questions).
So here's a condensed version of a column I wrote earlier this week.
GETTING VOTERS THERE: The caucuses require voters to travel to schools, churches, homes and community centers. The challenge for the candidates? Identifying their supporters and convincing them that getting to a caucus is time well spent.
THE ARRIVAL: Because the state allows Democrats and independents to reregister when they arrive at a caucus, they are effectively open to everyone. Some caucus locations will have just a few people gathered in a living room. Others will be larger, more formal affairs, held in a gymnasium or a ballroom.
THE CAMPAIGNING: Once voters show up, representatives of each campaign are given the opportunity to make remarks in an attempt to sway people at the last minute.
THE SECRET BALLOT: When everyone has had his say, the voting begins. For Republicans, those choices are kept secret. That is different from Democratic caucuses, where voters gather in like-minded clusters in
various parts of the room to indicate their support for a candidate.
THE COUNT: In 2008, about 120,000 Republicans cast ballots in their party's caucuses. Some political observers expect a higher Republican turnout this year.
THE DELEGATES: The overall results of the caucuses will drive news coverage as the candidates leave Iowa for New Hampshire, which holds the next primary contest, on Jan. 10. But those results actually do not determine the number of Iowa delegates the winners will receive.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Explaining Tonight's Polls
Within an hour or so, we'll be getting results about the preferences of Iowa voters from interviews known as "entrance polls" - similar to exit polls conducted for primaries in other states. Edison Research of Somerville, N.J., stations interviewers in a number of randomly selected sites. Those interviewers then ask voters before they head inside to fill out questionnaires about their choices for a presidential candidate, and their positions on other issues.
The first wave of any exit poll, or in the case of Iowa caucuses, "entrance polls," is a very early bead of information about the views of voters, and it is quite incomplete. In the case of the Iowa caucuses, The Times does not release the initial findings from these polls for several reasons.
For one, candidates' campaigns are extremely organized in getting their supporters to the caucus sites before they open at 7 p.m. That can translate into the likelihood that the first wave includes a larger proportion of those who had already made up their minds for an individual candidate, and could skew any totals from the initial count.
Joe Lenski, the executive vice president of Edison Research, which conducts the polls for the primaries and the general elections, noted that candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann, for example, are advising caucus-goers to get to the sites at 6:30 p.m.
"Whoever arrives first is going to be interviewed first," Mr. Lenski said on Tuesday. And the earliest tallies are not really a broad enough sample, he cautioned, to read much into them. They can be easy to misinterpret or over-interpret.
Mr. Lenski said, "releasing a telephone survey after one night is not normally done. It's not the complete sample. It's just the interviews done to that point."
Everyone remembers that Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign provided sandwiches and other food near the caucus sites in 2008, a possible enticement for caucus-goers. (Whether the food was appealing enough to change anyone's vote remains debatable, since she lost Iowa to Barack Obama.)
In this cycle, we know that about 4 in 10 in the most recent survey said they could still change their minds, and it is possible anyone in that group would not be interviewed in the initial wave because they might arrive later, unattached to a campaign.
Tuesday night, with the focus on the Republican party's caucuses, the second and third waves tallying the entrance polls will provide a much firmer picture of the composition of the caucus-goers and their preferences. In previous years, we've learned from the entrance polls what segments of Iowans voted for which candidates. In Mitt Romney's column in the 2008 caucuses, 51 percent of those interviewed believed he had the best chance to win the general election. (Iowa went for Mike Huckabee, even though just 8 percent said he had the best shot at winning that November. More important in that cycle was that the candidate shared the voters' values, highlighted by the 44 percent who said Mr. Huckabee shared theirs, as opposed to 26 percent who believed Mr. Romney shared their values.)
Those are the types of views we'll be able to post, once we get the broader figures after about 8:30 p.m.
Here's a brief explanation of how the entrance polls are conducted:
Voters are interviewed using a questionnaire before heading into their caucuses at 40 randomly selected sites, and Edison releases the results in waves for the National Election Pool, a consortium of ABC News, The Associated Press, CBS News, CNN, Fox News and NBC News. The results tend to represent the wider electorate voting at the caucus sites, within a certain margin of sampling error.
- 
7:05 P.M. | Obama Makes Important Ad Buy
DES MOINES - More evidence that President Obama's political advisers are crashing the Republican party just a bit:
The home page of The Des Moines Register is bathed in the cool, Democratic blue of an ad by Mr. Obama's re-election campaign.
"See How Barack Obama Kept His Promises," a headline in the ad says. Across the right part of the site is Mr. Obama's smiling face under the words, "Obama Biden."
And on the left: a checklist of "promises kept" four years after Iowa handed Mr. Obama his first victory in the 2008 race.
- 
6:58 P.M. | Santorum Delivers Harsh Critique of Obama and His Values
URBANDALE, Iowa - The students at Des Moines Christian Assembly found out Tuesday morning that class was being dismissed early so they could get a special civics lesson from a visiting former United States senator, Rick Santorum.
But what they actually ended up getting was a harsh critique of liberals and President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who, like most of the Republican candidates, usually criticizes the president on the campaign trail, was unusually disparaging of Mr. Obama and what he described as the president's misguided values.
"The Obama administration has a set of values," he told a gathering of hundreds of students in the gymnasium of the school, which is just outside Des Moines. "Our values are based on religion, based on the Bible. Their values are based on the religion of self."
He added, his voice rising in anger: "In their world, if it's religiously based or biblically based, it's out. If it's anything else, bring it on in. You know what's at stake in this election? That value structure."
Even as Mr. Santorum promised not to say anything but positive things about Mr. Obama if he is elected president, he likened the current administration to a student who had failed to turn in his homework.
"That's the routine of this administration: handing in an assignment incomplete and blaming someone else for the problem," he said. "If you want to be president, man up and be president."
The negative tone of Mr. Santorum's remarks struck at least a few students as inappropriate, especially for a Christian school.
"I don't really think you should talk about other people like that," said Tierra Fletcher, a senior. "I mean, people make mistakes. But you shouldn't put them down like that."
Her friend Devan Brown, a junior, agreed and said that were she old enough to vote in November, she doubt it would be for Mr. Santorum. "I wouldn't necessarily want to from what he said."
Neither girl knew much about Mr. Santorum before Tuesday. "What's his position on abortion?" Ms. Brown wanted to know. When told that Mr. Santorum was solidly anti-abortion, she was glad to hear it. "I don't feel right about abortion at all," she said. "A child is a gift from God."
Then the girls wanted to know what he thought about gay people. When told that Mr. Santorum had once likened being gay to bestiality, Ms. Brown shook her head. "I have lots of friends who are gay. I don't judge," she said. "I know it says in the Bible it's wrong. But I don't judge."
Ms. Brown rendered one more judgment on Mr. Santorum. After seeing him walk into the gymnasium with his entourage, she observed, "He's not even wearing a suit." Of course, Mr. Santorum was wearing one of his signature sweater vests.
- 
6:41 P.M. | Perry Will Move On to South Carolina
DES MOINES - Rick Perry won't pack his bags and go home, no matter what happens.
That's the message from the Texas governor to CNN's John King this evening, as Iowa voters decide his fate in the Hawkeye State.
"I mean the idea that one or two states is going to decide who the next nominee for the Republican Party is, is just, you know, that - that's not reality," Mr. Perry said.
He added that he will head to South Carolina tomorrow - regardless of the outcome in Iowa - and will make the argument there that Mitt Romney is not an "authentic conservative" who an solve the nation's problems.
"Those folks in South Carolina, I can promise you, they're not going to buy a pig in a poke, so to speak," he said.
- 
6:37 P.M. | Intrade's Crystal Ball
WASHINGTON - Might Intrade know the winner of Iowa tonight before many other sources do?
On the night of the Iowa caucuses in 2008, before news organizations declared Barack Obama and Mike Huckabee the winners, the odds on the Intrade markets began to suggest that both would win. Between 8:30 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern, the odds began rising for both Mr. Obama, then a Democratic senator from Illinois, and Mr. Huckabee, a Republican and former Arkansas governor.
By 9 p.m., Intrade - an online market where traders can bet on real-world events - gave Mr. Obama and Mr. Huckabee each more than an 80 percent chance of winning, according to Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth economist who has studied prediction markets.
That pattern suggests that information from the caucuses was filtering out to people buying contracts on Intrade and affecting the prices.
But Intrade has hardly had a perfect record on nights like tonight, Mr. Zitzewitz notes. On the day of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire in 2008, Mr. Obama's odds of victory rose to about 99 percent - before eventually falling to zero. Mr. Zitzewitz wrote, via e-mail:
"I'm not aware of anyone having studied systematically whether the within-election-day market movements have predictive power in the absence of exit poll leaks. We probably do not have a large enough sample size to say much. In contrast, it's fairly clear that the market movements in the days leading up to elections have plenty of information content."
In the days leading up to the Iowa caucus, Rick Santorum's odds of victory were rising - and continued to rise through parts of Tuesday - but Mitt Romney was still given the highest chance of winning (roughly 44 percent) at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Santorum's odds were about 30 percent, and Ron Paul's were about 25 percent.
In a 2008 column, I looked at the benefits and drawbacks of Intrade odds in more detail.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Obama Looks for a Share of the Iowa Spotlight
WASHINGTON - The Republican caucus is clearly the big story Tuesday night, but that hasn't stopped President Obama from trying to grab some of the spotlight in Iowa. The president is hosting a live video conference for Democrats attending precinct caucuses across Iowa, where he will try to get himself in shape to repeat his 2008 win in the state, while at the same time landing a punch or two against the Republicans.
Hoping to strike an emotional chord in the state that galvanized his bid for the presidency, Mr. Obama's re-election campaign e-mailed supporters a video of Mr. Obama's Iowa victory speech in January 2008. Mr. Obama's backers said that four years later, Mr. Obama has kept the promises he made that night, which included vows to make health care more affordable, to cut taxes for the middle class and to end the war in Iraq.
"Most of us will watch what happens on TV - but as you do, remember that the end of this story is up to you and what you decide to do in the days and weeks ahead," Mitch Stewart, an Obama campaign aide, said in another e-mail to supporters.
Mr. Obama is expected to strike similar themes when he speaks at the video conference Tuesday night. He is also expected to take questions from caucus voters, and his video conference will be largely limited to those who participate in the caucuses.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Mr. Obama would probably follow the Republican caucus results by reading about them in the newspaper or online. It was unclear whether Mr. Obama would watch the returns on television.
White House officials said Mr. Obama wasn't ready to engage aggressively in the election campaign. But Mr. Obama's campaign has been up and running in Iowa since April, and he had many surrogates in the state on Tuesday night.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will travel to Cleveland for an economy-related event at a local school.
- 
6:15 P.M. | Caucusing Demographics From 2008
DES MOINES - So who shows up at the Iowa caucuses? 
Here are some basic statistics from the Republican caucuses in 2008, according to the Edison/Mitofsky entrance poll conducted in 2008. A lot could change these numbers this time around, but it's at least a basic guide to the kind of people who might come out. 
* Gender: 56 percent were male, 44 percent were female.
* Age: 46 percent were 45 and older, 18 percent were 25 to 44, and only 9 percent were 17 to 24.
* Race: 99 percent were white; less than one-half were black, and about 1 percent were listed as "other."
* Wealth: About 33 percent said their total family income was more than $75,000 a year, while 16 percent made less than $30,000 a year.
* Religion: 60 percent said they were evangelical Christians.
- 
6:08 P.M. | Iowa Geography Lesson
DES MOINES - Here's a mini-geography lesson as you watch the Iowa caucuses. (These are generalizations, so don't be too picky.) 
East and South: More liberal. These are areas that Democrats tend to win in. 
North and West: More conservative and evangelical. Mike Huckabee did well in this part of the state in 2008.

The Cities: These tend to be more liberal, and so more moderate candidates like Mitt Romney could do better here. 
Colleges: Ron Paul might expect to do well here, since college students tend to favor him. There's Iowa State in Ames, the University of Iowa in Iowa City, and a raft of others.
- 
5:55 P.M. | Live - and Cold - in Des Moines 
It's starting to feel a bit like caucus time. Candidates and reporters have gotten used to trudging through snow and enduring frigid temperatures as they cover the Iowa caucuses. But until a couple of days ago, it was positively balmy. Today, just in time, that all changed. We woke up to a 12-degree morning. And as night falls, it's just above freezing in Des Moines.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Five Things to Watch
DES MOINES - Sometime after 7 p.m., all over Iowa, more than 100,000 hardy souls will gather in their communities to pick a Republican nominee for president.
For the next several hours, the rest of the country will be waiting for those Iowans to pull the trigger on the starting pistol for the 2012 campaign.
In some years, the Iowa dynamic is clear - a yes-or-no, this-one-or-that-one proposition that is easily answered by the result at the end of the night.
This won't be one of those years.
Here are five things to watch for in Iowa Tuesday night.

        
Gingrich Says He Is Unlikely to Win Iowa Caucus
        
Veteran Lobbyist to Advise Romney Campaign
        
Occupy Protesters Aim Anger at Both G.O.P. and Democrats in Iowa
        
Iowans Weigh Options at Gingrich Appearance
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); RELIGION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); FAMILY (68%) Iowa Caucus; live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Iowa; Elections; In Iowa

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



128 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SUNDARAM, URMILLA

 BODY:
SUNDARAM--Urmilla, passed away at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York on January 3, 2012. She grew up in India where she completed her bachelor's and master's degrees in economics, and moved to the US in 1985, obtaining her PhD in Sociology from Brown University. She is survived by her husband Rangarajan ("Raghu") Sundaram, Professor of Finance at the Stern School of Business, New York University; sons Kartik Ganapathy and Pavan Ganapathy of Bangalore, India; daughter Aditi Sundaram, 10th-grade student at the United Nations International School in New York; and father KG Belliappa of Bangalore, India. Memorial services are planned for later this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); CANCER (86%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (84%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



129 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Trading Year Starts Off With a Rally

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Wall Street stocks ushered in the first day of trading in the new year with a strong rally as investors were buoyed by a report that showed manufacturing strength in the American economy.
Historically, equities have often traded higher in the opening days of the new year. But after opening with a strong bounce Tuesday, stocks gave back some of their early gains as investors remained skeptical about the strength of the economy and saw a cloudy outlook for the euro zone.
''People are skittish. They're saying, 'Show me, show me, show me. Prove it to me, prove it to me, prove it to me,' '' said Robert Doll, chief equity strategist for fundamental equities at asset-management firm BlackRock. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.55 percent, or 19.46 points, to close at 1,277.06, after climbing to 1,284.62 in the morning.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 1.67 percent, or 43.57 points, to 2,648.72, and the Dow Jones industrial average increased 1.47 percent, or 179.82 points, to 12,397.38.
Meanwhile, oil prices shot up on growing concerns that Iran could close the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf to oil tankers if new sanctions are adopted by Western nations. The tensions in the region caused oil prices to jump $4.13, to $102.96 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
In stocks, financial firms led the charge higher. Shares of Bank of America, which was one of the worst-performing stocks last year, had one of the biggest moves, rising 4.32 percent, to $5.80. JPMorgan Chase shares climbed 5.2 percent, to $34.98, and Citigroup's stock jumped 7.68 percent, to $28.33.
Some analysts attributed the early optimism in the day to a new report on manufacturing. The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, said its manufacturing index rose to 53.9 points in December from 52.7 in November. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.
Despite the stronger tenor of the report, other analysts remained cautious about drawing broader conclusions.
''The investor base got badly burned this time last year when many who were pessimistic in late 2010 switched to being optimistic in early 2011,'' said Cary Leahey, senior economist at Decision Economics.
Investors raised their forecasts for economic growth and ''upped their expectations of corporate earnings -- and equity performance peaked in the second quarter and growth turned out to be about half of what people had hoped,'' Mr. Leahey said.
Joseph Saluzzi, a co-head of trading at Themis Trading, said it was too early to say investors had a new, buoyant resolve. Fairly low trading volumes early in the day did not indicate to him that a flood of sidelined cash was moving into the markets.
''Nothing is really going to change until you start to see some real hard economic numbers that show growth. We've seen these sort of inklings before and they haven't led to much in the past,'' Mr. Saluzzi said.
More economic data will be released later in the week, perhaps providing investors with a bit of additional clarity on the strength of the economy late last year. Major retailers are scheduled to release sales data, which will provide a gauge of consumer spending during the holiday season.
And on Friday, the government reports the closely watched employment figures for December. The early consensus in the market was that the economy generated 150,000 jobs during the month. But even if true, some analysts said the market's reaction could be muted.
''The market is primed for a good report by recent standards, but it will be a mediocre report by historical standards,'' said Mr. Leahey.
Forecasts for much of the euro zone this year appear more bleak.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany warned on New Year's Eve that ''next year will no doubt be more difficult than 2011,'' as austerity measures across much of Europe put economic growth at risk.
Mr. Doll of BlackRock said most investors believe Europe is going to have a shallow recession and that, should it occur, would not lead to significant fallout for the United States economy.
''But things will be different if somebody can convince us that Europe is going to fall apart or we see the bankruptcy of a major bank there,'' he said. ''Then that's not economic contagion, which we could thwart, but financial contagion, which would be much more difficult to deal with.''
Earlier Tuesday, Asian stocks rose. The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong, on its first trading session of 2012, jumped 2.4 percent and the Kospi index in South Korea rose 2.69 percent. Markets in Japan and mainland China remained closed for the extended New Year's holiday.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 23/32, to 100 13/32, and its yield rose to 1.96 percent, from 1.88 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders prepared for the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



130 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Widens Effort to Recoup Bank's Assets

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- The Afghan Central Bank said Tuesday that the government was stepping up efforts to recoup public money lost more than a year ago in the collapse of Kabul Bank, the nation's largest private financial institution.
The development may hearten the Afghan government's international backers, like the United States, by showing that the government is trying in good faith to recover money from those accused of bilking Kabul Bank of some $900 million. 
A delegation of the government's Financial Disputes Resolution Commission is visiting Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, where many favored borrowers bought real estate with cheap loans from the bank. The delegation is to hire a representative company there to oversee the sale of assets repossessed from borrowers, the central bank said.
In addition, Pamir Airways, an airline that received millions of dollars in loans from Kabul Bank, which foundered in the fall of 2010, would be reorganized and sold off, the central bank said.
The central bank said its governor, Noorullah Delawari, reported on the efforts to recoup the lost money in a visit to the United States last month, when he met with officials from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as well as Daniel Feldman, the State Department's deputy special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The State Department confirmed that the meeting with Mr. Feldman had taken place, but it offered no details and declined to comment on whether the Afghan government's attempts to recoup money from politically connected figures in the country were sufficient.
In October, the monetary fund said it was renewing its credit program with Afghanistan, bringing some much-needed relief and stability to the nation's shaky financial system. It had suspended the program in 2010, in large part because of the fraud at Kabul Bank and a general lack of oversight of the banking system. Under the deal to renew the program, the government must show to the monetary fund's satisfaction that it is working hard to recover the losses.
Said Ishaq Allawi, an adviser to Mr. Delawari, confirmed that the delegation had visited Dubai, but he gave no details about the assets to be sold there or how much the government expected to recoup. Nor was it clear how much could be realized from selling Pamir's small fleet of aging airplanes.
Though some of the money lost in the bank's collapse has been recovered, the government will still probably have to cover hundreds of millions of dollars in losses. The bank's receivers and the Finance Ministry have said that sales of seized assets might recoup nearly half the total.
Kabul Bank offered loans to its shareholders, allowing them to borrow much more than Afghanistan's banking laws allowed and charging very low rates. It made risky loans on property in Dubai that turned sour when the market there collapsed, and it lent a brother of the Afghan president $6 million for a town house there.
The bank's chairman at the time, Sherkhan Farnood, used bank money to buy property in his wife's name and in his own, offered shares in the bank to politically connected figures, and approved large loans to relatives and friends of bank executives with little or no assurance of repayment.
In its investigations into the collapse, the central bank found that Kabul Bank's management maintained two sets of books -- a false set in Kabul and a genuine set in Dubai, at the Shaheen Currency Exchange, which was run by Mr. Farnood. Beyond the central bank's announcement, it was not clear what progress the Afghan government was making in settling the problems relating to Kabul Bank.
Mr. Farnood and the bank's former chief executive, Khalilullah Frozi, were detained and placed under investigation by the attorney general's office, but they have not been tried.
After the government stepped in to guarantee Kabul Bank's debts, the bank was overhauled; it has been divided into a ''good'' bank, with the deposits, performing loans and other viable assets of Kabul Bank, and a ''bad bank'' that holds the hundreds of millions of dollars in bad loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REPOSSESSION (74%); DIVESTITURES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



131 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Prices Are Steady In Manhattan, but Sales Fall

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
The Manhattan real estate market closed out 2011 with prices relatively flat, but sales volume for the fourth quarter was down by more than 12 percent from the previous year largely because of shrinking condominium inventory as fewer new developments came to market, according to reports that will be released by the city's major brokerage firms on Wednesday.
The median fourth-quarter sales price was $855,000, down 1.2 percent from the same time in 2010, according to one report, from Prudential Douglas Elliman. The figure is far from the market's peak in 2008, when the median was close to $1 million, but up from the bottom in 2009, when the median hovered around $800,000. 
The number of sales, however, was only 2,011, a 12.4 percent drop from 2010 and a surprising 35.3 percent drop from the third quarter of 2011, according to Elliman's report. ''That's a pretty sharp quarterly drop, and I don't know if it's a precursor to lower activity going forward,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Elliman's report.
Fourth-quarter sales volume typically drops off by about 9 percent from the third quarter, because of a slowdown during the holidays. But Mr. Miller said that the 35 percent decrease was probably ''a byproduct of the last six months of global economic volatility, which translates into a pause until consumers figure out what it all means.''
Dottie Herman, the chief executive of Elliman, said the 35 percent drop may have been exaggerated because third-quarter sales volume was unusually high amid heavy interest from foreign buyers when the dollar was at its weakest. ''But over all, prices and volume wasn't that different from the previous year, and I think this year, in 2012, we're probably going to have a lot more of the same,'' she said.
Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property, said she was not alarmed by the year-to-year decrease in sales because the 2010 figure had been inflated by a surge in sales in the last months of that year, as buyers rushed to make purchases before an anticipated increase in capital gains taxes. The capital gains tax rate had been scheduled to return to 20 percent from 15 percent in 2011, but Congress extended the lower rate just before it was to expire. ''I think what we're seeing is just the normal ebb and flow of the market,'' she said.
Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group, said the drop in sales volume was largely propelled by a dip in the number of new developments coming to market. While co-op inventory remained stable, she said, condo inventory, at 3,466, decreased 11 percent from 2010.
While some areas, including parts of Harlem, still have new condo projects on the market, downtown neighborhoods like the West Village and Chelsea have extremely low inventory. ''We've had a lot of clients hungry for great condos in the West Village, and we have had nothing to show them,'' Ms. Liebman said.
A report by Streeteasy.com showed overall inventory at 13,147, down 5.9 percent from 2010. ''I think inventory being down is actually a good thing, because it keeps prices from plummeting even more,'' said Sofia Song, Streeteasy's vice president for research. ''It suggests that a lot of sellers are holding on to their properties to wait out the market.''
The reports also show that luxury sales of $3 million and up continued to be strong. At the super-high end, there were 23 sales with price tags of $20 million or more in 2011, the highest annual number since 2008, according to Ms. Liebman.
Hall Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said luxury sales rebounded early in 2011 and held strong throughout the year. His firm registered three sales over $20 million in the last three months, and will soon record the record-breaking $88 million sale of a penthouse at 15 Central Park West.
At nearly $13,000 per square foot, Mr. Willkie said, ''that price may prove to be a one-off and not a proxy for anything.'' He said, though, that apartments at One 57, the Extell Development Company's 90-story hotel and condominium tower across from Carnegie Hall, which is not scheduled to open until 2013, were selling for $10,000 per square foot.
''But even with all these extraordinary sales we've seen,'' he said, ''the high end, like the rest of the market, is still very price-sensitive. Buyers have to feel that prices are justified.''
Ms. Herman said she expected the bookends of the market, at the entry and luxury levels, to continue to do well. ''But what's getting killed is the middle market,'' she said, ''the average person who's looking to trade up and trying to spend between $700,000 and $1.1 million.''
Because banks have tightened their lending restrictions so much, she said, many of those buyers ''have no borrowing power, even if they have good, steady jobs.'' Until financing loosens up, she said, many of those buyers will be unable to trade in their entry-level apartments for larger spaces.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); TAX LAW (84%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



132 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GRADING THE DIGITAL SCHOOL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: Teachers Resist High-Tech Push In Idaho Schools

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
POST FALLS, Idaho -- Ann Rosenbaum, a former military police officer in the Marines, does not shrink from a fight, having even survived a close encounter with a car bomb in Iraq. Her latest conflict is quite different: she is now a high school teacher, and she and many of her peers in Idaho are resisting a statewide plan that dictates how computers should be used in classrooms.
Last year, the state legislature overwhelmingly passed a law that requires all high school students to take some online classes to graduate, and that the students and their teachers be given laptops or tablets. The idea was to establish Idaho's schools as a high-tech vanguard.
To help pay for these programs, the state may have to shift tens of millions of dollars away from salaries for teachers and administrators. And the plan envisions a fundamental change in the role of teachers, making them less a lecturer at the front of the room and more of a guide helping students through lessons delivered on computers. 
This change is part of a broader shift that is creating tension -- a tension that is especially visible in Idaho but is playing out across the country. Some teachers, even though they may embrace classroom technology, feel policy makers are thrusting computers into classrooms without their input or proper training. And some say they are opposed to shifting money to online classes and other teaching methods whose benefits remain unproved.
''Teachers don't object to the use of technology,'' said Sabrina Laine, vice president of the American Institutes for Research, which has studied the views of the nation's teachers using grants from organizations like the Gates and Ford Foundations. ''They object to being given a resource with strings attached, and without the needed support to use it effectively to improve student learning.''
In Idaho, teachers have been in open revolt. They marched on the capital last spring, when the legislation was under consideration. They complain that lawmakers listened less to them than to heavy lobbying by technology companies, including Intel and Apple. Teacher and parent groups gathered 75,000 verified signatures, more than was needed, to put a referendum on the ballot next November that could overturn the law.
''This technology is being thrown on us. It's being thrown on parents and thrown on kids,'' said Ms. Rosenbaum, 32, who has written letters to the governor and schools superintendent. In her letters she tells them she is a Republican and a Marine, because, she says, it has become fashionable around the country to dismiss complaining teachers as union-happy liberals.
''I fought for my country,'' she said. ''Now I'm fighting for my kids.''
Gov. C. L. Otter, known as Butch, and Tom Luna, the schools superintendent, who have championed the plan, said teachers had been misled by their union into believing the changes were a step toward replacing them with computers. Mr. Luna said the teachers' anger was intensified by other legislation, also passed last spring, that eliminated protections for teachers with seniority and replaced it with a pay-for-performance system.
Some teachers have also expressed concern that teaching positions could be eliminated and their raises reduced to help offset the cost of the technology.
Mr. Luna acknowledged that many teachers in the state were conservative Republicans like him -- making Idaho's politics less black and white than in states like Wisconsin and New Jersey, where union-backed teachers have been at odds with politicians.
Mr. Luna said he understood that technological change could be scary, particularly because teachers would need to adapt to new ways of working.
''The role of the teacher definitely does change in the 21st century. There's no doubt,'' Mr. Luna said. ''The teacher does become the guide and the coach and the educator in the room helping students to move at their own pace.''
Many details about how students would use their laptop or tablet are still being debated. But under the state's plan, that teacher will not always be in the room. The plan requires high school students to take online courses for two of their 47 graduation credits.
Mr. Luna said this would allow students to take subjects that were not otherwise available at their schools and familiarize them with learning online, something he said was increasingly common in college.
The computer, he added, ''becomes the textbook for every class, the research device, the advanced math calculator, the word processor and the portal to a world of information.''
Idaho is going beyond what other states have done in decreeing what hardware students and teachers should use and how they should use it. But such requirements are increasingly common at the district level, where most decisions about buying technology for schools are made.
Teachers are resisting, saying that they prefer to employ technology as it suits their own teaching methods and styles. Some feel they are judged on how much they make use of technology, regardless of whether it improves learning. Some teachers in the Los Angeles public schools, for example, complain that the form that supervisors use to evaluate teachers has a check box on whether they use technology, suggesting that they must use it for its own sake.
That is a concern shared by Ms. Rosenbaum, who teaches at Post Falls High School in this town in northern Idaho, near Coeur d'Alene. Rather than relying on technology, she seeks to engage students with questions -- the Socratic method -- as she did recently as she was taking her sophomore English class through ''The Book Thief,'' a novel about a girl in a foster family in Germany during World War II.
Ms. Rosenbaum, tall with an easy smile but also a commanding presence, stood in the center of the room with rows of desks on each side, pacing, peppering the students with questions and using each answer to prompt the next. What is an example of foreshadowing in this chapter? Why did the character say that? How would you feel in that situation?
Her room mostly lacks high-tech amenities. Homework assignments are handwritten on whiteboards. Students write journal entries in spiral notebooks. On the walls are two American flags and posters paying tribute to the Marines, and on the ceiling a panel painted by a student thanks Ms. Rosenbaum for her service. Ms. Rosenbaum did use a computer and projector to show a YouTube video of the devastation caused by bombing in World War II. She said that while technology had a role to play, her method of teaching was timeless. ''I'm teaching them to think deeply, to think. A computer can't do that.''
She said she was mystified by the requirement that students take online courses. She is taking some classes online as she works toward her master's degree, and said they left her uninspired and less informed than in-person classes. Ms. Rosenbaum said she could not fathom how students would have the discipline to sit in front of their computers and follow along when she had to work each minute to keep them engaged in person.
Some of her views are echoed by other teachers, like Doug StanWiens, 44, a popular teacher of advanced history and economics at Boise High School. He is a heavy technology user, relying on an interactive whiteboard and working with his students to build a Web site that documents local architecture, a project he says will create a resource for the community.
''I firmly believe that technology is a tool for teachers to use,'' he said. ''It's time for teachers to get moving on it.'' But he also spoke last year on the capital steps in opposition to the state's program, which he said he saw as a poorly thought-out, one-size-fits-all approach.
Half of teachers, he suspects, will not use the new computers. And the online learning requirement seems to him to be a step toward cutting back on in-person teaching and, perhaps eventually, on not having students congregate in schools at all.
''We can just get rid of sports and band and just give everyone a laptop and call it good,'' he said.
Stefani Cook, who teaches accounting and business at Rigby High School in southeast Idaho and was the state's 2011 Teacher of the Year, also teaches a modernized typing course to 32 online students after-hours. A contractor for the state pays her to teach the course and also to help other teachers shape and present their online lessons.
Ms. Cook is a believer in classroom technology and generally supports the state's plan. She is on a 38-member task force that is working out the logistics of deploying computers to teachers next fall and, eventually, to 80,000 high schoolers. The group will also organize training for teachers. Ms. Cook said she did worry about how teachers would be trained when some already work long hours and take second jobs to make ends meet.
''I'm excited about it,'' she said. But some teachers, she said, ''think it's just another thing that they've got to do.''
Mr. Luna, the superintendent, said training was the most essential part of the plan. He said millions of dollars would be set aside for this but that the details were still being worked out. Teachers will need to learn how to use the new devices and how to incorporate them into their lesson plans, which could involve rethinking longstanding routines.
For his part, Governor Otter said that putting technology into students' hands was the only way to prepare them for the work force. Giving them easy access to a wealth of facts and resources online allows them to develop critical thinking skills, he said, which is what employers want the most.
When asked about the quantity of unreliable information on the Internet, he said this also worked in favor of better learning. ''There may be a lot of misinformation,'' he said, ''but that information, whether right or wrong, will generate critical thinking for them as they find the truth.''
Mr. Otter said of a teacher like Ms. Rosenbaum, ''If she only has an abacus in her classroom, she's missing the boat.''
Some of the state's politicians disagree with that message. State Senator Dean L. Cameron, a Republican who is a co-chairman of the senate budget committee, said there was no proof that the technology improved learning. He said he felt the legislature was ''dazzled'' by presentations given by lobbyists for high-tech companies -- who also gave generously to Mr. Luna's re-election campaign.
(Mr. Luna said that $44,000 of his $300,000 in donations to his last campaign came directly or indirectly from technology companies, but he said that was because they supported his agenda, not because they shaped it.)
Mr. Cameron said of the law: ''It's almost as if it was written by the top technology providers in the nation.'' He added: ''And you'd think students would be excited about getting a mobile device, but they're saying: not at the expense of teachers.''
Last year at Post Falls High School, 600 students -- about half of the school -- staged a lunchtime walkout to protest the new rules. Some carried signs that read: ''We need teachers, not computers.''
Having a new laptop ''is not my favorite idea,'' said Sam Hunts, a sophomore in Ms. Rosenbaum's English class who has a blond mohawk. ''I'd rather learn from a teacher.''
GRADING THE DIGITAL SCHOOL: Articles in this series are looking at the intersection of education, technology and business as schools embrace digital learning.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 9, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about Idaho teachers' resistance to a statewide plan for technology in the classroom misstated an element of the plot of ''The Book Thief,'' a novel being taught by one teacher. The book, set in Germany during World War II, centers on a girl living with a foster family; she is not being hidden as a Jew. (The family does shelter a Jewish man.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ann Rosenbaum, a teacher at Post Falls High School in Idaho, tries to engage students with questions, using the Socratic method, instead of relying on technology.
 Students working on a computer-aided design program at Post Falls High School. Many teachers say they prefer to employ technology as it suits their own teaching methods, and some said they felt they were judged on how much they made use of technology. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); REFERENDUMS (65%); LIBERALISM (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



133 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: After 40-Year Battle, Train May Roll for Oahu

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
KAPOLEI, Hawaii -- From the farmlands here on the western side of Oahu, the hotels of Honolulu and the bluffs of Diamond Head can be seen rising 20 miles in the distance. This is rural Hawaii: waves and coastline on one side, lush mountains on the other and barely a building or vehicle in sight.
But sometime this spring, a $5.3 billion project is scheduled to rise from the Kapolei farmlands that offers powerful evidence of how much this island, a symbol of Pacific tranquillity, is changing. A 40-year battle to build a mass transit line appears to be nearing its end. Barring a court intervention, construction is to begin in March on a 20-mile rail line that will be elevated 40 feet in the air, barreling over farmland, commercial districts and parts of downtown Honolulu, and stretching from here to Waikiki.
The two-track line --a 30-foot-wide span, with 21 elevated stations -- is designed to accommodate an increasing crush of commuters and tourists while encouraging new growth and development, particularly on this undeveloped part of the island. The Honolulu rail project, scheduled for completion in 2018, seems certain to change sharply the nature of much of the south side of the island, as well as downtown Honolulu. 
The project has drawn fierce opposition from many environmentalists and some community leaders, who describe it as a concrete gash across green Oahu that will blight pristine coastlines and farmland at the western end and throw a shadow over city streets in Honolulu. It could still be delayed or frozen by a pending suit in federal court from opponents who assert that planners failed to properly explore alternatives to the project in environmental studies.
Still, for many islanders, its mere existence underscores a fact that some resist and others celebrate: Honolulu has joined the ranks of major metropolitan regions, with more than 930,000 people. ''It starts to remind everyone that we are not all grass huts anymore,'' said Cliff Slater, a leader of the opposition to the project. ''There's this illusion as to what Hawaii is all about, and New York-style trains don't cut it.''
In recent years, the few highways here have routinely been as crammed with traffic as those in Los Angeles, a problem that seems likely to get worse. ''This is not a sleepy, lazy, little city anymore,'' said Toru Hamayasu, the interim director of the Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transit. ''It's a big town now.'' Notably, in a state known for bristling at much development -- on the island of Molokai recently, a small band of protesters took to the waters to blockade a tour ship operator trying to make a stop there -- opposition to the transit line, while strong, does not appear to be widespread.
Even opponents say the project appears to have reached a critical mass. It is supported by most of this area's elected officials, and by unions. Most of the financing is in place, in the form of an excise tax approved by the state and the city. And contracts for more than half the work have been awarded.
''It's our genuine belief that there is sufficient momentum for this to carry itself forward on its own, absent some adverse ruling by the court,'' Peter Carlisle, the mayor of Honolulu, said in an interview. ''There isn't any doubt that this is something a majority of people in Oahu want. The number of people who are opposed to it are slowly withering away as people realize that first, we have to do something to get people employed, and second, traffic is unbearable.''
Reaction to the train defies some of the usual lines. Some environmentalists are loath to oppose any project that encourages the use of mass transit over cars, while others question the wisdom of Oahu essentially doing the opposite of what New York City did half a century ago, when it began removing elevated train lines that cast a shadow along Manhattan avenues, and at a time when so many other cities are trying to bury highways and rail lines. Some of the opposition is financial, with opponents arguing that the cost is wildly expensive for the benefits it will bring.
''It is really a lunatic project. There is no other way to describe it,'' said Panos Prevedouros, a professor of civil engineering at the University of Hawaii and a past candidate for Honolulu mayor. ''It's twice as expensive -- for only 20 miles of track -- as the Washington Metro.''
He described the elevated platforms as ''almost like compact football fields in the air.''
Donna Wong, the executive director of Hawaii's Thousand Friends, an environmental group, expressed fear that the elevated line's lights would distract birds in migration patterns and disrupt Hawaiian historical sites. ''I think it's a slap in the face of native Hawaiians,'' she said.
Opponents of the project include some prominent names, among them Ben Cayetano, a former governor. Mr. Cayetano said the project was ''motivated more by politics than by sound engineering'' as political leaders used it to burnish their credentials.
Mr. Hamayasu said the cost of the project would be recouped, in no small part because of reduced operating costs compared with buses. ''One train carries the equivalent of five or seven buses with no labor cost for the driver.''
Mr. Carlisle described the project as essential to the economic transformation of the area, saying it would lead to more development on this part of the island and also rescue commuters from an often brutal drive.
''They are screaming a lot about aesthetics, but aesthetics is in the eye of the beholder,'' he said. ''In terms of aesthetics, I can't think of anything less attractive than staring at a car in front of you and seeing nothing but its brake lights, of being stuck hours on end. If you are looking at the rail, you won't have to look at traffic at all. You'll be able to sit down and work.''
Mr. Cayetano, who is a plaintiff in the suit, said he was ''cautiously optimistic'' that the court would order Honolulu to suspend the project and redo the environmental impact statement. But Mr. Hamayasu said that at this point, he felt there was little that could stop the transit line.
''I've been here for almost 40 years, and this was my first job starting off here. The first study I got involved in on it finished in 1972,'' he said. ''This is as far as we've ever come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rail line is likely on Oahu despite opposition to the elevated track and stations, rendered in a photograph above. The $5.3 billion project will rise from the Kapolei farmlands, below, and symbolizes how much the island has changed. Its few highways are now crammed with traffic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENT NISHIMURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); LITIGATION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (97%) HAWAII, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



134 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Turning Tax Time Into Party Time

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
AS the holiday season ends, the tax season begins, giving some revelers little reason to celebrate. A new ad campaign for Jackson Hewitt Tax Service wants to change that by getting customers to focus more on refund checks than on the actual filing of their taxes.
The new campaign, ''Jackson Hewitt's How You Do It,'' is the first with the company's new advertising agency, 22squared, which Jackson Hewitt selected in September. 
Television spots feature customers celebrating after having their taxes prepared to the tune of ''This Is How We Do It,'' a hit song by Montell Jordan in 1995.
One spot, which promotes the company's 3,700 storefront locations, starts with a close-up of a man pumping his fist in the air in slow motion with his mouth and eyes wide open. ''This is Steve,'' the announcer says as the camera shot widens to show Steve dancing on a tax preparer's desk. ''He did his taxes at Jackson Hewitt and just found out how much he'll be getting back this year.''
As the spot ends, the camera pans out to show the entire Jackson Hewitt office, employees and customers, dancing.
Debra Dowd, the chief marketing officer at Jackson Hewitt, said the campaign was an attempt to make the tone of tax season one of celebration.
''This is a time of year that people really look forward to,'' Ms. Dowd said. ''Nobody's really taken that step back and said, 'If you're getting a refund, is there something happy associated with it?' ''
Another commercial highlights the company's 15-year relationship with Walmart. This time, the person with the gaping mouth is a little girl falling into her mother's arms after seemingly being thrown into the air after the news about the family's refund check.
Jackson Hewitt expects to have tax preparation kiosks in 2,800 Walmart stores by the end of this year, a 40 percent increase over a year ago, Ms. Dowd said. The company is also adding to its signs in Walmart stores and will advertise in Walmart circulars. An added benefit for Walmart is that after customers learn how much their refunds will be, they may spend money in the store.
The average return for a Jackson Hewitt customer is about $3,000, Ms. Dowd said. The cost of most tax preparations can range from free for a basic form like the 1040 EZ (as a promotion), to a couple of hundred dollars.
The target audience for the new campaign is what the company calls ''Main Street Americans,'' people who have moderate incomes and have been hit hard by the economy.
''This is the biggest financial transaction that they have each year,'' said Will Thomason, a group account director at 22squared. ''They're just really hardworking people in a tough economic environment. Seventy-five percent of them have an opportunity to get a tax refund.''
The television ads began on Jan. 2. They can be seen on cable networks like TNT, TBS, BET and A&E. Radio is also a large part of the campaign, with D.J.'s in major markets like New York, Los Angeles, Dallas and Chicago trying to interest listeners in Jackson Hewitt.
''They provide a level of local and community credibility,'' Mr. Thomason said, adding that the disc jockeys would be used to ''get people talking about Jackson Hewitt on their own terms.''
Jackson Hewitt also created a mobile application that allows customers to find a local office, estimate their tax refund or schedule an appointment. For customers whose refund checks make them so happy they want to do their own versions of the ''running man'' dance step, Jackson Hewitt is offering a Facebook game called Digital Dance-Off that allows players to dance along with animated characters.
Doug Kelly, an industry analyst with IbisWorld, said the Jackson Hewitt campaign came at a time when online services like Turbo Tax were ''definitely a threat as far as the brick and mortar side of the industry.'' Mr. Kelly estimated that 60 percent of Americans had used some form of tax preparation software.
On the flip side, recent Turbo Tax commercials have focused on offering users help from certified -- and human -- tax preparers. ''This industry exists because tax returns are complicated enough and the penalties that exist because of inaccuracies are high enough that people turn to professionals to help them with their tax prep services,'' Mr. Kelly said.
Jackson Hewitt, which emerged from bankruptcy in August, spent $12.4 million on advertising in 2010 and $13.8 million from January 2011 to September 2011, according to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP. Turbo Tax spent $81.2 million in 2010 and $91.1 million from January to September 2011.
Mr. Kelly estimated that the tax preparation industry had grown to $8.9 billion in the United States in 2011.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A commercial for Jackson Hewitt Tax Service portrays customers after their returns were prepared. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); RETAILERS (69%)

COMPANY: JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



135 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: The Casino the State Saved

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

 BODY:
ATLANTIC CITY -- The view from the 39th floor of the Revel resort and casino here is nearly as stunning as the fact that the $2.4 billion project is actually nearing completion after five years, including a stretch when construction halted for almost a year after financing evaporated.
As recently as last February, it was unclear if Revel would ever open. But after a $261 million pledge from New Jersey, investors stepped in and revived the abandoned development. If it opens as scheduled in May it will be the first new casino here since the Borgata in 2003 -- and probably, analysts say, the last project of this scale for the foreseeable future in Atlantic City, where gambling revenue is down to about $3.1 billion from its peak in 2006, when the casinos took in $5.2 billion.
The Revel's supporters hope the 6.3-million-square-foot resort will usher in a new era for Atlantic City, one modeled after Las Vegas-style entertainment. Revel intends to cater to a younger, well-heeled clientele looking for a lavish weekend getaway that focuses less on gambling and more on fine dining, luxury spas and lavish nightclubs, as the Borgata does. 
''It's going to be a game-changer,'' said Jeffrey Vasser, the president of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority. ''It's going to reach a whole new group of folks who haven't been to Atlantic City in a very, very long time, if at all.''
The risk, however, is that the resort will not bring new visitors to Atlantic City but instead drain traffic from the casinos already here.
''When you have additional capacity in a saturated market, that doesn't bode well for a market that is already losing customers,'' said Michael Paladino, a gambling analyst at Fitch, whose report speculated that at least one Atlantic City casino would fold because of Revel.
Deborah Howlett, the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, an advocacy group that opposes state financing of Revel, said: ''There was a reason that the private sector wasn't stepping up. If they believed there was an opportunity to make money, they would have funded this.''
If not for state support, there is little doubt that Revel would still be a vacant, 47-story glass and steel shell sitting on the beach. Morgan Stanley, the original investor, walked away from the development in April 2010, deciding that a $1.4 billion loss was a better alternative to finishing the project.
Kevin DeSanctis, Revel's chief executive, was unable to secure new financing until the state stepped in last Feb. 1 with a $261 million tax credit and a pledge from Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican, to invest in the flailing tourism industry.
Within days, investors got in line behind the project and delivered $1.1 billion needed to finish it.
''The tax credit showed Wall Street that the State of New Jersey was going to stand behind Atlantic City,'' Mr. DeSanctis said. ''It was a huge boost in financing, and I think it would have been very difficult to do without it.''
Atlantic City has been in decline since 2006, when Pennsylvania opened its first casino, beginning a slow bleed of gamblers that have never returned. With rival casinos opening in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland and upstate New York, there is little Atlantic City can do to stop the loss of its primary customer: the so-called comp guest who gambles, eats at the hotel buffet and stays free.
Hurt by the recession, gambling revenue was down nationally 1.7 percent in 2008 and 3.5 percent in 2009, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. By 2010, the national decline had largely stopped and revenue edged up 0.2 percent, to $57.5 billion. The company says the positive trend will probably continue, with 2015 revenue projected to be $73.3 billion.
In Atlantic City, by contrast, revenue fell by 6.3 percent in November from the same time last year, according to the state. And the numbers will most likely get worse. PricewaterhouseCoopers predicted in a December report that Atlantic City would be the only market in the country to continue to lose gambling revenue into 2015, with revenue falling to $2.8 billion, a 46 percent drop from its 2006 peak.
Pennsylvania is expected to generate $2.27 billion in revenue in 2011, a 20 percent jump from last year, according to a report by Fitch Ratings.
With Atlantic City's comp guests and day-trippers largely gone for good, Revel hopes to lure regional conferences and wealthy, younger vacationers.
''That is just significant untapped potential,'' said Mr. DeSanctis, who projects that 14,000 guests will stream through the resort's facilities every day.
Visitors entering the Revel will not step into a casino but into a striking hotel lobby with 140-foot ceilings and ocean vistas. The theatrical gambling floor has vibrant red carpeting, curved wooden chandeliers and a dance club in the center. The company restricted photographs of the rooms, which have panoramic ocean views.
The state financing came out of a stimulus package passed in 2009 to create jobs in New Jersey. Atlantic City's unemployment rate in November was 14.1 percent, well over the state average of 9.1 percent.
Money from the tax credits will go to revitalizing the blighted South Inlet neighborhood and, initially, to backing the second-tier loans.
Two weeks after the state backed the project, a consortium of investors agreed to finance it, Mr. DeSanctis said. The combination of bank and mezzanine financing totaled $1.15 billion and was broken down into a first-tier tranche of $850 million and a second tier of $304 million.
Revel officials estimate that the development will create 2,600 construction jobs and 5,500 permanent jobs. Many of the jobs, however, particularly positions like dealers, waiters and cocktail waitresses, will have four- to six-year terms, requiring employees reapply for their own jobs at the end of the term. No other casino has a similar hiring policy, according to Local 54, the union that represents Atlantic City hospitality workers.
''These are the jobs you're creating?'' said Mr. C. Robert McDevitt, president of Local 54. ''People aren't able to plan their future in four-year bites. It's just unconscionable.''
In response, the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, the agency that approved the financing, says that although the tax credit is part of a job-creation program, the state will not weigh in on Revel's hiring policies.
''In today's economic climate, people don't have lifetime contracts,'' said Caren S. Franzini, the chief executive of the development authority.
Last month the state announced plans to provide Revel with a $2.6 million grant to help the company train employees.
On a recent day, construction workers were installing fixtures, drywall and slot machines. Revel is lining up top vendors for its amenities, among them the celebrity chef Jose Garces, who will run three restaurants, including a taco truck on the casino floor and a tapas restaurant that overlooks the ocean.
''When I think of the Revel, I'm not thinking of it as an Atlantic City spot,'' said Mr. Garces, who owns restaurants in Philadelphia and Chicago and won an ''Iron Chef'' title. ''It's really more about the resort -- the lifestyle and the entertainment -- before it is about the casino.''
The competition is preparing for Revel's arrival. Last spring, Borgata began a $50 million renovation of its guest rooms. The casino hired Laurence Lee, the same interior designer as the Revel, to design their rooms, which will be ready around the time Revel opens.
''No one is pulling for them more than me,'' said Robert L. Boughner, the president and chief operating officer of Borgata Atlantic City. Their success ''would mean that it is possible to grow the market,'' he said.
''On the other hand,'' Mr. Boughner added, ''if the principal effect is diluting the business that's already here, that would be a less positive effect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Revel resort and casino, given up for dead until an infusion of state cash, is planning to ease the focus on gambling. (B1)
 State money for the Revel came from a program meant to stimulate jobs, but unions are skeptical of the hiring policy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (90%); GAMING (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LODGING (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BEACHES (60%); TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



136 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: So Much Fun. So Irrelevant.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Two things have struck me about the Republican presidential candidate debates leading up to the Iowa caucuses. One is how entertaining they were. The other is how disconnected they were from the biggest trends shaping the job market of the 21st century. What if the 2012 campaign were actually about the world in which we're living and how we adapt to it? What would the candidates be talking about?
Surely at or near the top of that list would be the tightening merger between globalization and the latest information technology revolution. The I.T. revolution is giving individuals more and more cheap tools of innovation, collaboration and creativity -- thanks to hand-held computers, social networks and ''the cloud,'' which stores powerful applications that anyone can download. And the globalization side of this revolution is integrating more and more of these empowered people into ecosystems, where they can innovate and manufacture more products and services that make people's lives more healthy, educated, entertained, productive and comfortable. 
The best of these ecosystems will be cities and towns that combine a university, an educated populace, a dynamic business community and the fastest broadband connections on earth. These will be the job factories of the future. The countries that thrive will be those that build more of these towns that make possible ''high-performance knowledge exchange and generation,'' explains Blair Levin, who runs the Aspen Institute's Gig.U project, a consortium of 37 university communities working to promote private investment in next-generation ecosystems.
Historians have noted that economic clusters always required access to abundant strategic inputs for success, says Levin. In the 1800s, it was access to abundant flowing water and raw materials. In the 1900s, it was access to abundant electricity and transportation. In the 2000s, he said, ''it will be access to abundant bandwidth and abundant human intellectual capital,'' -- places like Silicon Valley, Austin, Boulder, Cambridge and Ann Arbor.
But we need many more of these. As the world gets wired together through the Web and social networks, and as more and more sensors run machines that are talking to other machines across the Internet, we are witnessing the emergence of ''Big Data.'' These are the mountains of data coming out of all these digital interactions, which can then be collected, sifted, mined and analyzed -- like raw materials of old -- to provide the raw material for new inventions in health care, education, manufacturing and retailing.
''We're all aware of the approximately two billion people now on the Internet -- in every part of the planet, thanks to the explosion of mobile technology,'' I.B.M.'s chairman, Samuel Palmisano, said in a speech last September. ''But there are also upward of a trillion interconnected and intelligent objects and organisms -- what some call the Internet of Things. All of this is generating vast stores of information. It is estimated that there will be 44 times as much data and content coming over the next decade ...reaching 35 zettabytes in 2020. A zettabyte is a 1 followed by 21 zeros. And thanks to advanced computation and analytics, we can now make sense of that data in something like real time.''
The more information and trends you are able to mine and analyze, and the more talented human capital, bandwidth and computing power you apply to that data, the more innovation you'll get.
When eight doctors from around the world can look at the same M.R.I. in real time, said Levin, it enables the acceleration of small breakthroughs, which is where big breakthroughs eventually come from. Big bandwidth, he added, would enable these same doctors doing high-risk surgery to practice the life-saving procedures in advance over network-enabled simulators, leading to better results, new kinds of surgical innovations and new forms of medical education. Big bandwidth, combined with 3-D printers, would also allow for the rapid prototyping of all kinds of manufactured products that can then be made anywhere.
Right now, though, notes Levin, America is focused too much on getting ''average'' bandwidth to the last 5 percent of the country in rural areas, rather than getting ''ultra-high-speed'' bandwidth to the top 5 percent, in university towns, who will invent the future. By the end of 2012, he adds, South Korea intends to connect every home in the country to the Internet at one gigabit per second. ''That would be a tenfold increase from the already blazing national standard, and more than 200 times as fast as the average household setup in the United States,'' The Times reported last February.
Therefore, the critical questions for America today have to be how we deploy more ultra-high-speed networks and applications in university towns to invent more high-value-added services and manufactured goods and how we educate more workers to do these jobs -- the only way we can maintain a middle class.
I just don't remember any candidate being asked in those really entertaining G.O.P. debates: ''How do you think smart cities can become the job engines of the future, and what is your plan to ensure that America has a strategic bandwidth advantage?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); BANDWIDTH (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BIG DATA (74%); HISTORY (72%); BROADBAND (69%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (69%); CITIES (67%); CITY LIFE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



137 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: In Westchester County, the Platinum Mile Is Reinvented, Again

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
In its glory days from the late 1960s to the mid-1980s, the Platinum Mile, as a section of Interstate 287 in Westchester County, N.Y., is called, was what its name suggested: a prosperous stretch of gleaming office parks, home to Fortune 500 companies like I.B.M., Texaco and General Foods.
Today the Platinum Mile area -- which takes in nearly four miles of I-287 in White Plains, Harrison and Rye -- is struggling to find a new identity in a troubled economy and reduce its vacancy rate, now at 19 percent, up from 13 percent in 2002.
Still, it is not the first time in the last 50 years that the corporate parks lining the north and south sides of the highway have had a surfeit of empty space. When some of those Fortune 500 companies downsized or left in the late 1980s and 1990s, the Platinum Mile adapted by becoming home to a multitude of smaller companies, many of them lured from downtown White Plains to the greenery and open spaces east of the city proper. 
But some of those small to midsize companies, like Malcolm Pirnie, a water and environmental consulting firm, have since returned to White Plains's newly vibrant downtown, where employees these days have access to upscale shops, high-rise condominiums, restaurants and a Ritz-Carlton hotel. For those employees who reside in Manhattan and commute, the downtown is also home to a Metro-North station, 35 minutes from Grand Central Terminal.
As a result the Platinum Mile must lure new tenants once again -- this time, business leaders say, by broadening the definition of an office park to include uses like education, housing, retail and recreation.
''I think you're going to see a lot of creative reuses for these buildings,'' said Alfred B. Del Bello, the chairman of the Westchester County Association, a business organization that is intensively studying the issue. Mr. Del Bello, a lawyer who was Westchester's county executive from 1974 to 1982 and the state's lieutenant governor in 1983-85, said, ''We need to reposition and repurpose these buildings.''
He said that with six million square feet of vacant office space in the county, new uses for office parks were ''a major topic of discussion.''
''Unless we can reduce that by at least half,'' he said, ''not only will there be no demand going forward for new office construction in Westchester, but owners will also have trouble keeping these buildings.''
Lowell Schulman, now in his mid-80s, developed many of the corporate buildings along the corridor, the heart of which runs from 222 Westchester Avenue to 800 Westchester Avenue, starting in the mid-1960s. He built 100,000- to 125,000-square-foot buildings that attracted a variety of large corporate tenants like American Machine and Foundry.
''Nothing is forever,'' Mr. Schulman said, ''although this is certainly not the end of corporate campuses altogether -- just a change, like a kid growing up.''
The 19 percent vacancy rate along the Platinum Mile is out of a total inventory of 5,353,176 square feet, according to Glenn Walsh, a senior director for Cushman & Wakefield. That is slightly above the county average of 18 percent for Class A commercial real estate.
The rate along the Interstate 287 corridor is influenced both by the vicissitudes of the economy and the arrival or departure of major tenants like General Foods, which once occupied 560,000 square feet on the Platinum Mile, and Texaco, which had its 750,000-square-foot headquarters there. It is expected to rise even more shortly when Starwood Hotels and Resorts and its 800 employees relocate to Stamford, Conn.
Part of the current vacancy rate can be attributed to the recession. But that is not the whole story. The buildings along the Platinum Mile are old by today's standards, and many are no longer suitable for contemporary companies without major retrofitting. Many were designed for single, large tenants and would need to be reconfigured for multiple occupants.
The challenges facing aging office parks are not unique to Westchester County. But around the country some have begun to adapt.
In Hyattsville, Md., for example, University Town Center has become a mixed-use development, and in Attleboro, Mass., a former Texas Instruments corporate campus now includes office buildings, a wastewater treatment plant and upscale residential units, according to a study presented last month at a conference by the Land Use Law Center of Pace University School of Law in White Plains.
The study, called ''What's Old Is New Again,'' predicts that by 2025, more than 6.3 billion square feet of vacant office space will exist in the United States, at the same time that demand will grow for multifamily rental housing. It suggests rezoning to allow for residential uses.
The most successful office park retrofits, according to the study, are those with access to rail lines or major highways with transit access, which the I-287 corridor offers.
Along the Platinum Mile, the shift to nontraditional uses has already begun.
The offices of Gannett Suburban Newspapers, a fixture there since 1973, is being acquired by Life Time Fitness, a company based in Chanhassen, Minn., and are expected to be razed to make way for a 109,000-square-foot high-end health and fitness club on 24 acres. In 2008, Fordham University opened an $8 million campus in a former three-story office building. And Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center is seeking approval to build a $112 million treatment center in a former Verizon complex.
That is not to say that the Platinum Mile will not continue to be a hub for office parks. The RPW Group, a commercial real estate company in Rye Brook, N.Y., has bought a number of buildings along the stretch, including a former General Foods building and a former I.B.M. building known as 1133 Westchester Avenue, both of which it upgraded and reconfigured for many tenants. The law firm Wilson Elser signed a 15-year lease in December for 125,000 square feet at the 600,000-square-foot 1133 Westchester Avenue, the county's largest commercial lease of the year, according to a news release announcing the deal.
The buildings that have been most successful in attracting major companies along the Mile, said Howard E. Greenberg, the president of Howard Properties in White Plains, are larger ones like 1133 Westchester that have been updated and have extensive amenities like private executive dining rooms, hair salons, day care centers and concierge services.
''The Platinum Mile isn't going away,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''But it's morphing, and in order to remain vibrant, it must.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Platinum Mile once was home to corporate giants like I.B.M. and General Foods. In 2008, a campus of Fordham University, below, opened there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); COUNTIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RETAILERS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (51%)

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



138 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Iran Warns U.S. Aircraft Carrier Not to Return to Gulf and a Strategic Strait

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
Iran's military sharpened its tone toward the United States on Tuesday with a blunt warning that an American aircraft carrier that left the Persian Gulf through the strategic Strait of Hormuz last week should not return.
The warning, by Iran's military chief, was the latest and most aggressive volley in a nearly daily exchange of barbed statements between Iran and the United States. Iran has just finished ambitious naval exercises near the strait, and it has repeatedly threatened to close the passage -- through which roughly one-fifth of all the crude oil traded worldwide passes -- if Western powers move forward with new sanctions on Iran's petroleum exports.
''We recommend to the American warship that passed through the Strait of Hormuz and went to Gulf of Oman not to return to the Persian Gulf,'' said Maj. Gen. Ataollah Salehi, the commander in chief of the army, as reported by Iran's official news agency, IRNA. ''The Islamic Republic of Iran will not repeat its warning.'' 
General Salehi did not say what action Iran would take if the carrier were to re-enter the Persian Gulf.
A spokesman for the Defense Department, Cmdr. Bill Speaks, declined to discuss future movements of the carrier, the John C. Stennis. He said that ''the deployment of U.S. military assets in the Persian Gulf region will continue as it has for decades.''
The United States dismissed Iran's threats to close the strait. ''The U.S. Navy operates under international maritime conventions to maintain a constant state of high vigilance in order to ensure the continued safe flow of maritime traffic in waterways critical to global commerce,'' Commander Speaks said.
Iran's economy, already reeling from Western sanctions over its nuclear program, has been hit hard by discussion of new sanctions aimed at its oil exports, the world's third largest. President Obama signed new legislation on Saturday that could penalize buyers of Iranian oil, and the European Union has openly talked of a boycott of Iran's oil. On Tuesday, France urged the European Union to adopt stricter sanctions, including an oil embargo, by the end of the month.
Iran's currency, the rial, fell to record lows against the dollar on Tuesday, news agencies reported. Oil prices rose sharply in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, with the benchmark contract for crude up more than 4 percent to $102.91 a barrel.
The attempts by Iran's leadership to flex the country's muscles on the world stage coincide with efforts to stamp out dissent at home ahead of planned parliamentary elections in March, the first ballot to be held since a disputed presidential vote in 2009 prompted national protests and a severe crackdown.
On Tuesday, an Iranian court sentenced Faezeh Hashemi, the daughter of former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, to six months in prison for spreading what it termed ''propaganda against the Islamic system,'' the semiofficial Mehr news agency reported. The court also barred her from engaging in any political, cultural or media activities for five years.
Last week, access to the Web site of Mr. Rafsanjani, who is widely perceived as having supported Mir Hussein Moussavi against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the 2009 election, was blocked in Iran.
Ms. Hashemi, a former Parliament member and an outspoken critic of Mr. Ahmadinejad, has been active in opposition politics; she was briefly detained last year after being accused of chanting antigovernment slogans during a banned rally in Tehran. She was also detained during a demonstration in 2009 over the disputed presidential election.
The government has prosecuted and convicted many opposition members since the 2009 street protests, but it has so far shied away from holding trials for Mr. Moussavi or Mehdi Karroubi, the principal opposition figures in Iran, who have been under house arrest for months.
While the Iranian leadership has offered assurances that reformist candidates will be permitted to run for office in the March elections, Mr. Moussavi and Mr. Karroubi have urged their supporters to stay home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVAL VESSELS (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ADMIRALTY LAW (78%); NAVIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (70%); LAW OF THE SEA (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); RELIGION (52%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); SENTENCING (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GULF STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



139 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: For Wall Street Overseer, Progress Comes at a Slow Crawl

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
Leading a new federal agency intended to help prevent another financial crisis may seem like a dream job for most economic gurus, but the government made a nomination only last month after a painfully slow search process.
The Treasury Department first considered at least three other candidates during the 17-month hunt for a director of the new agency, the Office of Financial Research. But they all rebuffed the role, in part over fears of the contentious Congressional approval process. The White House finally unveiled the in-house nominee - Richard Berner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary who was formerly the chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley - in a little-noticed news release late on a Friday in December.
''I was a little frustrated'' by the process, said Lewis S. Alexander, a former counselor to the Treasury secretary, who helped lead the search. ''This is a harder job to fill than I would have thought.'' 
Establishing the Office of Financial Research has become another example of the struggle to put the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul into effect.
The agency, which is tasked with collecting and analyzing reams of bank data on behalf of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, has been slow to fill its ranks and has missed deadlines. It was not until December, more than a year after the agency's creation, that employees left their temporary offices - a cubicle farm without private offices for top researchers - and moved to a larger space.
Although Mr. Berner has been tapped for the top post, it could take months for the Senate to approve him - if it does at all. Senate Republicans are pushing to abolish the agency altogether, a crusade that mirrors their effort to dismantle the more prominent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The agency is even getting heat from some of its supporters. Democratic lawmakers, who pushed in 2010 to create the organization, have grown impatient with the lack of progress.
''Time's a-wasting,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who championed the agency. ''If this organization had been fully functional six months ago, I honestly think we would have had better insights'' into American financial firms' exposure to European sovereign debt.
Neal S. Wolin, the deputy secretary of the Treasury, who meets regularly with the agency's staff, said that the researchers were busy preparing for their complicated mission. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the agency two years before its first report to Congress is due.
''We are committed to building this office the right way and are focused on substance over speed,'' Mr. Wolin said in an e-mailed statement. ''We have already made a good deal of progress on a lot of the foundational work.''
Mr. Berner declined to comment.
The Office of Financial Research traces its origins to a conference in Washington in early 2009. With the economy grappling with a credit crisis, a group of academics and regulators concluded that the government lacked the knowledge to assess potential pressure points in the financial system.
The agency was created 18 months later, with the power to gather data from banks, including information about their trading partners, positions and transactions. The project has been likened to predicting the weather, a task possible only with a vast amount of data and the capacity for high-tech analysis.
The agency's mission doesn't sit well with some Wall Street lobbyists and their Republican allies in Congress, who raise concerns about data security. Representatives from firms like Morgan Stanley and Bank of New York Mellon have met with Treasury Department officials to discuss the agency, which will be financed with fees levied on banks. Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee recently proposed that the organization be abolished in a letter sent to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, a new body that was charged with finding ways to address the budget imbalance.
''The Office of Financial Research is just as powerful and intrusive'' as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Representative Randy Neugebauer, the Texas Republican who heads a subcommittee on oversight and investigations, said in a statement in July.
The threat of Republican opposition made it difficult to find a director, who is subject to confirmation by the Senate for a six-year term. Andrew W. Lo, a finance professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, met with Treasury officials about the post, calling it a ''golden opportunity.'' But he said he felt he didn't have enough government experience and feared he would not get Senate approval.
Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist who co-developed the widely used Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, spent half a day at the Treasury Department in January 2011. Officials were attracted by his experience analyzing large amounts of data. John D. Geanakoplos, a Yale economist who is a founding partner of a hedge fund, was also on the shortlist, according to people briefed on the matter. But again, the candidates balked.
''It didn't seem like I could do it,'' said Mr. Shiller, adding that he thought the Senate would view him as ''too radical.''
As the search dragged on, the agency began to fall behind on its deadlines. In July, Mr. Wolin, the deputy Treasury secretary, predicted in testimony before the Senate Banking Committee that the agency would have about 60 full-time employees by the end of September. In December, when Mr. Berner's nomination was announced, the staff numbered 41.
In November 2010, the agency said in a report that it would aim to develop so-called legal entity identifiers - unique IDs to help regulators keep track of financial firms - by July. The date passed, and that system, though it has gotten international regulatory support, has not been completed.
'''Bickering' is just too weak a word to describe the dysfunction that's been going on,'' said Mr. Lo, the M.I.T. professor and onetime director candidate. ''It's created a chill on any kind of innovation in government.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After a 17-month search, the government nominated Richard Berner to lead the Office of Financial Research. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JACK REED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



140 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Time, or Tolls? Doing the New Math for New Jersey Commuters

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON; Nate Schweber and Mark Viera contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It sounds like a problem from a physics exam: Two drivers left a parking lot in East Brunswick, N.J., at the same moment on Tuesday morning. One swallowed hard and took the New Jersey Turnpike, paying tolls that had jumped 53 percent on New Year's Day. The other took Routes 1 and 1/9, toll free.
Which one arrived first at their destination, the Dunkin' Donuts inside the Exxon station on Jersey Avenue, near the entrance to the Holland Tunnel in Jersey City? 
The two drivers -- actually, two reporters taking part in a not-very-scientific race -- were not the only ones doing the time-versus-toll calculus on Tuesday, the first workday since the latest toll increase on the turnpike. Tolls on the Garden State Parkway also went up, by 50 percent.
The higher tolls were approved in 2008, as part of a two-step increase. The first step, which took effect at the time, raised tolls 40 percent on the turnpike and 43 percent on the parkway. New Jerseyans knew the second step was coming, and as 2011 ended, Gov. Chris Christie made it clear that he had had nothing to do with the increases.
''Oh, and by the way, I'm not raising tolls 50 percent,'' he said on radio station WFAN-AM on Dec. 23.
''Who is?'' the interviewer asked.
''Jon Corzine did,'' Mr. Christie said, referring to his predecessor, who favored the plan to raise money for road and bridge work.
On Tuesday, the two drivers left the parking lot of the Holiday Inn Express Town Center on Route 18 in East Brunswick, overlooking Exit 9 of the turnpike, at 7:29 a.m. The driver who took Route 1 and 1/9 made it to the Exxon and the Dunkin' Donuts in 57 minutes 8 seconds. By then, the other had already been there for 20 minutes 4 seconds.
One driver saved time; the other saved money: On the turnpike, because they were traveling during the morning rush, the 28-mile trip cost $6.65. (The off-peak toll would have been $4.90.)
''Do the math,'' counseled Kevin Scott, an electrician who lives in Linden, N.J., and had skipped the turnpike for Routes 1 and 1/9.
For the trip from Exit 9 in New Brunswick, N.J., to Exit 14C by the Holland Tunnel, the higher tolls on the turnpike add up to $33.25 a week, or $1,729 a year. Taking the turnpike home at the end of the day would double the price. And that does not include the unavoidable toll at the Holland Tunnel, recently raised to $9.50, for city-bound commuters with an E-ZPass during peak hours, or $12 in cash.
Extrapolating the difference in driving times, and throwing a couple of weeks of vacation into the calculation, a driver could save about $3,200 in tolls by avoiding the turnpike all year, but would spend about 160 hours doing it -- or $20 an hour, if the driver's time really is money.
It was not immediately clear whether turnpike traffic was lighter on Tuesday -- the Turnpike Authority said it would not have estimates on volume until Wednesday -- or commuters had switched to trains or buses because of the higher tolls.
The driver who took the turnpike said it was not crowded, but it was not empty, either. The prevailing speed was 75 miles an hour, 10 miles above the speed limit for the first part of the trip and 20 miles above for the remainder.
The driver who took Routes 1 and 1/9 went as fast as 50 miles an hour between New Brunswick and Elizabeth, but stopped at 14 red lights. He was sitting at one, next to Angel's Go-Go Bar in Elizabeth, when the other driver called to declare victory.
On the turnpike, Wilmer Cornejo, who lives in West New York, N.J., and works in South Plainfield, N.J., was angry. His one-way toll had climbed to $6.10, from $4, meaning that he will spend an additional $4.20 a day on his commute.
''I don't see why they have to be increased that much,'' he said.
Elizabeth Salib, a graduate student at Rutgers University, lives in Queens and drives to New Brunswick several times a week. ''I can't afford it,'' she said, adding that she would probably switch to Routes 1 and 1/9.
Benny Oei, a limousine driver from Queens, said he took local roads when his car was empty. But when he has passengers, he pays the tolls and saves the time.
The higher tolls are ''a bad idea,'' he said.
''Come on,'' he added. ''The economy is bad; business is not that great. For rich people it's nothing, but for the working class it's not a good idea.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drivers on the New Jersey Turnpike face a 53 percent toll increase. Reporters drove from East Brunswick to the Holland Tunnel to compare two routes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); INTERVIEWS (70%); APPROVALS (69%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (73%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (73%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (73%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



141 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Bring Back Boring Banks

BYLINE: By AMAR BHIDE


HIGHLIGHT: Amar Bhide, a professor at Tufts's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, is the author of ''A Call for Judgment: Sensible Finance for a Dynamic Economy.''

 BODY:
Medford, Mass.
CENTRAL bankers barely averted a financial panic before Christmas by replacing hundreds of billions of dollars of deposits fleeing European banks. But confidence in the global banking system remains dangerously low. To prevent the next panic, it's not enough to rely on emergency actions by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. Instead, governments should fully guarantee all bank deposits -- and impose much tighter restrictions on risk-taking by banks. Banks should be forced to shed activities like derivatives trading that regulators cannot easily examine.
The Dodd-Frank financial reform act of 2010 did nothing to secure large deposits and very little to curtail risk-taking by banks. It was a missed opportunity to fix a regulatory effort that goes back nearly 150 years. 
Before the Civil War, the United States did not have a public currency. Each bank issued its own notes that it promised to redeem with gold and silver. When confidence in banks ebbed, people would rush to exchange notes for coins. If banks ran out of coins, their notes would become worthless.
In 1863, Congress created a uniform, government-issued currency to end panicky redemptions of the notes issued by banks. But it didn't stop bank runs because people began to use bank accounts, instead of paper currency, to store funds and make payments. Now, during panics, depositors would scramble to turn their account balances into government-issued currency (instead of converting bank notes into gold).
The establishment of the Fed in 1913 as a lender of last resort that would temporarily replace the cash withdrawn by fleeing depositors was an important advance toward banking stability. But although the Fed could ameliorate the consequences of panics, it couldn't prevent them. The system wasn't stabilized until the 1930s, when the government separated commercial banking from investment banking, tightened bank regulation and created deposit insurance. This system of rules virtually eliminated bank runs and bank failures for decades, but much of it was junked in a deregulatory process that culminated in 1999 with the repeal of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation now covers balances up to a $250,000 limit, but this does nothing to reassure large depositors, whose withdrawals could cause the system to collapse.
In fact, an overwhelming proportion of the ''quick cash'' in the global financial system is uninsured and prone to manic-depressive behavior, swinging unpredictably from thoughtless yield-chasing to extreme risk aversion. Much of this flighty cash finds its way into banks through lightly regulated vehicles like certificates of deposits or repurchase agreements. Money market funds, like banks, are a repository for cash, but are uninsured and largely unexamined.
Relying on the Fed and other central banks to counter panics is dangerous brinkmanship. A lender of last resort ought not to be a first line of defense. Rather, we need to take away the reason for any depositor to fear losing money through an explicit, comprehensive government guarantee. The government stands behind all paper currency regardless of whose wallet, till or safe it sits in. Why not also make all short-term deposits, which function much like currency, the explicit liability of the government?
Guaranteeing all bank accounts would pave the way for reinstating interest-rate caps, ending the competition for fickle yield-chasers that helps set off credit booms and busts. (Banks vie with one another to attract wholesale depositors by paying higher rates, and are then impelled to take greater risks to be able to pay the higher rates.) Stringent limits on the activities of banks would be even more crucial. If people thought that losses were likely to be unbearable, guarantees would be useless.
Banks must therefore be restricted to those activities, like making traditional loans and simple hedging operations, that a regulator of average education and intelligence can monitor. If the average examiner can't understand it, it shouldn't be allowed. Giant banks that are mega-receptacles for hot deposits would have to cease opaque activities that regulators cannot realistically examine and that top executives cannot control. Tighter regulation would drastically reduce the assets in money-market mutual funds and even put many out of business. Other, more mysterious denizens of the shadow banking world, from tender option bonds to asset-backed commercial paper, would also shrivel.
These radical, 1930s-style measures may seem a pipe dream. But we now have the worst of all worlds: panics, followed by emergency interventions by central banks, and vague but implicit guarantees to lure back deposits. Since the 2008 financial crisis, governments and central bankers have been seriously overstretched. The next time a panic starts, markets may just not believe that the Treasury and Fed have the resources to stop it.
Deposit insurance was also a long shot in 1933 -- President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Treasury secretary, the comptroller of the currency and the American Bankers Association opposed it. Somehow advocates rallied public opinion. The public mood is no less in favor of radical reform today. What's missing is bold, thoughtful leadership.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



142 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing and Construction Lift Outlook on U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Manufacturing grew in December at the fastest pace in six months, and hiring at United States factories picked up, results that helped bolster the view that the economy was gaining momentum at the end of last year.
The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, said on Tuesday that its manufacturing index rose to 53.9 in December from 52.7 in November. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.
Also on Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that spending on construction projects rose 1.2 percent in November, following a revised 0.2 percent drop in October. The increase was the third in four months and the largest since a 2.2 percent rise in August. 
The November increase pushed spending to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $807.1 billion, still barely half the $1.5 trillion that economists consider healthy. Analysts say it could be four years before construction returns to healthy levels.
United States manufacturing has expanded for more than two years. Factories were one of the first areas of the economy to start growing after the recession officially ended in June 2009.
The latest survey from the Institute for Supply Management showed that domestic factories should start the year strongly. Factories hired last month at the fastest pace since June, the survey found. A measure of new orders rose, a good sign for future output. And exports also increased last month, though it was not clear how long that would last. The economy in Europe is faltering as the Continent continues to address its debt crisis.
Consumers are gaining confidence and are spending more. Some economists were forecasting that car sales increased in December after a strong month of sales in November. That should improve output among automakers and also steel companies, tire makers and others that supply the industry.
Orders for long-lasting manufacturing goods jumped in November, the Commerce Department said last month. Most of that increase reflected a huge rise in commercial aircraft orders, a volatile category.
Still, demand for core capital goods, which are often a proxy for business investment plans, fell for the second straight month. Business spending was a crucial driver of economic growth in 2011. If businesses trim spending, economic growth is likely to slow.
Businesses are less likely to retreat, however, if the economy continues to improve.
For construction in November, strength was seen in housing and government spending. Nonresidential construction fell, reflecting declines in construction of office buildings and shopping centers.
The industry was hit hard by the housing bust and has had trouble recovering. But home construction has begun a gradual rebound and should add to the nation's economic growth. The chief reason is that apartments are being built almost twice as fast as two years ago. Renting is often the only option for many people who have lost their jobs, their homes or both.
Builders in November broke ground on homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 685,000. That was a 9.3 percent jump from October and the fastest pace since April 2010.
Builders should start at least 600,000 homes this year. That is up from 587,000 last year and 554,000 in 2009 -- the worst year on record -- but it is half the number that economists expect in a healthy market.
Even so, the recovery appears to be strengthening, if fitfully. Last week, the Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rose in December to the highest level since April. That is important because consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers at a Home Depot store in Brooklyn. The Commerce Department said construction spending rose slightly in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (84%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); TIRE MFG (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



143 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Caucuses

 BODY:
The Iowa caucuses, in which a nation awaits the verdict of a handful of some of its least representative citizens, are not going to settle the race for the Republican nomination for president. But they did put on display the choice the Republicans present to voters: right, far right or the far, far right.
The caucuses Tuesday night were headed to an astonishing draw between Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney, followed by Ron Paul. More than anything, the tight finish suggested that Mr. Romney has had a hard time selling his recently minted conservatism to hard-core Republican conservatives; two-thirds of caucusgoers identified themselves as Tea Party supporters. 
The Republican caucuses only do a middling job of predicting who will win the presidency in November. But, this year, perhaps more than others, they were an important event to watch for any American voter.
The errors, absurd misstatements and unrelenting extremism were not the result of some ''gotcha'' moment in which a candidate was cornered in an interview or debate by a tricky (or maybe not so tricky) question. The Republicans have had months, millions of dollars and the advantage of there being no competing Democratic contest, to present the images of their own choosing -- and they are dark and disturbing.
The candidates were all nasty to each other; Newt Gingrich called Mr. Romney a ''liar'' on Tuesday. But when it came to President Obama, they were off the charts with baseless charges that would be laughable if they were not so insulting to the president and to the intelligence of voters.
Iowa's economy is not as bad as that in many parts of the country, so the candidates mainly tried to outbid each other in pandering to its socially conservative Republicans. Mr. Gingrich served up a right-wing theology that would dismantle every social advance since the institution of child labor laws and eviscerate the judiciary that has protected civil rights for a half-century.
Mr. Santorum talked endlessly about his opposition to a woman's right to choose an abortion and gay Americans' right to marry, while insisting that he would protect Americans' right to carry guns anywhere at anytime.
Even then, he had a hard time keeping up with Representative Michele Bachmann, founder of the House Tea Party caucus, who said she was the only Republican who would defend ''faith, marriage and the protection of life from conception to natural death.''
Representative Paul delighted young crowds with his libertarian slogans -- no war, no Federal Reserve, basically no government -- but seemed to have no real ideas other than to follow the literal words of the Constitution. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas based virtually his entire appeal on his religious faith -- a desperation play that failed and led him to retreat to Texas to decide whether to continue his obviously pointless candidacy.
In the middle of all this, of course, was Mr. Romney, no real conservative trying to be all forms of conservative -- forswearing his belief in abortion rights and global warming while insisting the health care reform he championed in Massachusetts isn't right for the rest of the country. He rivaled Mr. Gingrich in his false attacks on Mr. Obama, including claiming that the president travels the world apologizing for America.
As the Republican competition moves to New Hampshire next week, it is likely to focus less on social issues and more on economic issues. But that means even more of the slash-and-burn economics and class warfare that were also on display here.
Primaries bring out the extremism in candidates, but this year seems much worse because the ''center'' of the Republican Party has lurched so far to the right. The only good news in this primary season is that the more Americans listen to the Republican hopefuls, the more the voters will realize how out of touch these candidates are with the majority of Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RELIGION (67%); LGBT RIGHTS (61%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (61%); ABORTION (60%); MARRIAGE (60%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (50%); CHILD LABOR (50%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK PERRY (58%); RON PAUL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



144 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Publish a Forecast of Rate Moves, Guiding Investors

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve will begin later this month to publish the predictions of its senior officials about their own decisions, hoping to increase its influence over economic activity by guiding investor expectations.
The change was approved at the most recent meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee, in December, but was kept secret until Tuesday afternoon, when the Fed released an account of the meeting after a standard three-week delay.
The inaugural forecast, set for Jan. 25, will show the range of predictions made by Fed officials about the level of short-term interest rates in the fourth quarter of 2012, 2013 and 2014, although it will not list individual predictions. 
It also will summarize when they expect to start raising short-term rates, which they have held near zero since late 2008. And it will describe their plans for the Fed's investment portfolio.
The forecast could reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers by convincing investors that the Fed intends to keep rates near zero for longer than expected. But the benefits most likely would be modest, as rates already are very low and already are widely expected to remain near zero into 2014.
A more significant possibility, is that the changes will set the stage for the Fed to announce an expansion of its existing economic aid campaign, for example, by once again increasing its purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.
According to the meeting minutes, ''a number of members'' of the 10-person committee ''indicated that current and prospective economic conditions could well warrant additional policy accommodation, but they believed that any additional actions would be more effective if accompanied by enhanced communication.''
This, however, is unlikely to have any broad impact on the economy, because the Fed lacks the power to address the most important issues weighing on growth, including a lack of demand from gloomy consumers, high levels of debt throughout the economy and the depressed condition of the housing market. Stock traders took the Fed's announcement in stride as indexes continued their rise in the first day of trading in 2012.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 1.6 percent. The Fed's staff, which prepares an economic forecast noted for its unusual accuracy in an uncertain business, reduced its medium-term outlook for growth, citing the impact of events in Europe, according to the minutes.
''The Fed's core problem right now is that the parts of the economy through which those interest rate effects would normally get traction are blocked,'' said Vincent Reinhart, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley and a former senior Fed staff official. ''It is not clear how effective any of these policies will be.''
The change in communications policy is part of a broader effort by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to improve public understanding of the central bank's goals and methodology. It formalizes a series of experiments with forecasting that the Fed has made in recent years, beginning with its statement in December 2008 that rates would remain near zero ''for some time.''
Talking about future policy was a longstanding taboo among central bankers, who worried that investors would treat the predictions as promises and react badly when some predictions inevitably were off base. But the Fed now is casting its lot with the growing camp that regards shaping expectations as a primary tool for monetary policy, and is eager to seize any opportunity.
The forecast will summarize the predictions of the Fed's five governors -- two seats on the board are vacant -- and the 12 presidents of its regional banks, only five of whom hold votes on the committee at a given time. It will be included in an existing forecast of economic conditions -- the rates of growth, inflation and unemployment -- that the Fed publishes four times a year.
In presenting those forecasts, the Fed excludes the three highest and the three lowest estimates submitted by the officials. It then reports the highest and lowest predictions among the remaining 11 forecasts, showing a range that it describes as the ''central tendency.''
For example, the forecast published in November, showed the committee expected growth of 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in 2012.
The Fed also will publish what it described as ''qualitative information'' regarding the committee's expectations about the management of the Fed's balance sheet.
The Fed's plans for buying or selling assets are, at present, of even greater interest to most investors than the path of short-term interest rates.
Support for the changes was not unanimous, according to the minutes, which said that some ''did not see providing policy projections as a useful step at this time.'' But no formal vote was recorded. Instead, the minutes reflect that the participants -- not just the 10 members with votes -- reached a consensus.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, which will release its inaugural forecast on Jan. 25. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Ben S. Bernanke of the Fed, seen at a conference last year, wants to improve the public's understanding of how the bank works. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); APPROVALS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



145 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Overtures to Egypt's Islamists Reverse Longtime U.S. Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and STEVEN LEE MYERS; David D. Kirkpatrick reported from Cairo, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- With the Muslim Brotherhood pulling within reach of an outright majority in Egypt's new Parliament, the Obama administration has begun to reverse decades of mistrust and hostility as it seeks to forge closer ties with an organization once viewed as irreconcilably opposed to United States interests.
The administration's overtures -- including high-level meetings in recent weeks -- constitute a historic shift in a foreign policy held by successive American administrations that steadfastly supported the autocratic government of President Hosni Mubarak in part out of concern for the Brotherhood's Islamist ideology and historic ties to militants.
The shift is, on one level, an acknowledgment of the new political reality here, and indeed around the region, as Islamist groups come to power. Having won nearly half the seats contested in the first two rounds of the country's legislative elections, the Brotherhood on Tuesday entered the third and final round with a chance to extend its lead to a clear majority as the vote moved into districts long considered strongholds. 
The reversal also reflects the administration's growing acceptance of the Brotherhood's repeated assurances that its lawmakers want to build a modern democracy that will respect individual freedoms, free markets and international commitments, including Egypt's treaty with Israel.
And at the same time it underscores Washington's increasing frustration with Egypt's military rulers, who have sought to carve out permanent political powers for themselves and used deadly force against protesters seeking an end to their rule.
The administration, however, has also sought to preserve its deep ties to the military rulers, who have held themselves up as potential guardians of their state's secular character. The administration has never explicitly threatened to take away the $1.3 billion a year in American military aid to Egypt, though new Congressional restrictions could force cuts.
Nevertheless, as the Brotherhood moves toward an expected showdown with the military this month over who should control the interim government -- the newly elected Parliament or the ruling military council -- the administration's public outreach to the Brotherhood could give the Islamic movement in Egypt important support. It could also confer greater international legitimacy on the Brotherhood.
It would be ''totally impractical'' not to engage with the Brotherhood ''because of U.S. security and regional interests in Egypt,'' a senior administration official involved in shaping the new policy said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic affairs.
''There doesn't seem to me to be any other way to do it, except to engage with the party that won the election,'' the official said, adding, ''They've been very specific about conveying a moderate message -- on regional security and domestic issues, and economic issues, as well.''
Some close to the administration have even called this emerging American relationship with the Brotherhood a first step toward a pattern that could take shape with the Islamist parties' coming to power around the region in the aftermath of the uprisings of the Arab Spring. Islamists have taken important roles in Morocco, Libya, Tunisia and Egypt in less than a year.
''You're certainly going to have to figure out how to deal with democratic governments that don't espouse every policy or value you have,'' said Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and recently joined with the ambassador to Egypt, Anne W. Patterson, for a meeting with top leaders of the Brotherhood's political party.
He compared the Obama administration's outreach to President Ronald Reagan's arms negotiations with the Soviet Union. ''The United States needs to deal with the new reality,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''And it needs to step up its game.''
In the meeting with the Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, he said, the Brotherhood's leaders said they were eager to work with the United States and other Western countries, especially in economic areas.
''They certainly expressed a direction that shouldn't be a challenge to us, provided they follow through,'' he said, adding, ''Obviously the proof will be in the pudding.''
Brotherhood leaders, for their part, often talk publicly here of their eagerness for Egypt to have cooperative relations ''as equals'' with the United States. The Brotherhood renounced violence as a political tool around the time the 1952 revolution overthrew the British-backed monarchy. Over the years, many of its leaders said they had become comfortable with multiparty electoral democracy while serving as members of a tolerated -- if marginalized -- parliamentary minority under Mr. Mubarak.
They also seem to revel in their new standing. After the meeting with Senator Kerry and Ambassador Patterson, the Brotherhood's newspaper and Web site reported that Mr. Kerry said ''he was not surprised at the progress and leading position of the Freedom and Justice Party on the electoral landscape in Egypt, emphasizing his respect for the public will in Egypt.''
''Egypt is a big country with a long honorable history and plays an important role in Arab, Islamic and international issues, and therefore respects the conventions and treaties that were signed,'' the Brotherhood leaders said they told Mr. Kerry.
But, on the group's English language Web page, the report also urged the United States ''to hear the peoples, not to hear of them,'' and advised ''that America could play a role in the economic development and stability of various peoples of the world, if it wished.''
On Tuesday, the administration intensified its criticism of Egypt's military rulers over raids that last week shut down 10 civil society groups, including at least 3 American-financed democracy-building groups, as part of an investigation of illicit foreign financing that has been laden with conspiratorial and anti-American rhetoric.
''It is, frankly, unacceptable to us that that situation has not been returned to normal,'' a State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said, charging that Egypt's military rulers had broken pledges last week to top American officials, including Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta.
She called the officials behind the campaign against the organizations ''old Mubarak holdover types who clearly are not on the new page with the Egyptian people.''
The administration's willingness to engage with the Brotherhood could open President Obama to new attacks by Republicans who are already accusing him letting Islamists take over a pivotal ally. Some analysts, though, said the overtures amounted to a tacit admission that the United States should have begun such outreach to the region's Islamist opposition long ago.
Discreet American contacts with the Muslim Brotherhood go back to the early 1990s, although they were previously limited to unpublicized meetings with members of Parliament who also belonged to the Brotherhood but were elected as independents. And even those timid encounters evoked vitriol from Mr. Mubarak.
''Your government is in contact with these terrorists from the Muslim Brotherhood,'' he reportedly told the American journalist Mary Anne Weaver in 1994. ''Very secretly, without our knowledge at first,'' he said, adding, ''I can assure you these groups will never take over this country.''
Shadi Hamid, director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, argued that the United States missed chances to build ties to moderate Islamists earlier. When Mr. Mubarak jailed thousands of prominent Brotherhood members in 2005 and 2006, for example, the organization reached out to Washington.
''Now the Brotherhood knows it is in a stronger position and it is almost as if the U.S. is chasing them and they are sitting pretty,'' Mr. Hamid said. ''But what can the U.S. do, intervene and change the election results?'' he asked. ''The only alternative is to be against democracy in the region.''
Egypt's elections are expected to continue to Wednesday, with runoffs next week, and Parliament's first session is expected to open Jan. 23, two days before the anniversary of the protests that forced out Mr. Mubarak.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The third round of Egyptian elections began on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMED ASAD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Voters in Minya, Egypt, took part in the final phase of parliamentary elections on Tuesday. The Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party holds the lead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED DESOUKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RELIGION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



146 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Iowa's Decision Night Arrives With the Air Full of the Unknown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO, SUSAN SAULNY, STEVEN YACCINO and A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
PELLA, Iowa -- Under the glare of a giant backlighted cross, four volunteers for Ron Paul formed a human obstacle course in front of voters walking into Pella Christian High School here, about an hour's drive east of Des Moines.
''Are you undecided?'' they asked, the question seeming almost comical. It was 6 o'clock on caucus night. It was decision time.
Yet the nods and the yeses kept coming. ''It's unbelievable how many people remain unsure,'' said Esther Roorda, who handed out leaflets for Mr. Paul, a congressman from Texas.
Even here, in a rural pocket of Iowa known for its unapologetic social conservatism and evangelical tilt, the caucus had a deeply unsettled feel on Tuesday night. 
Three candidates, Mr. Paul, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum, were locked in a tight contest across the state. And that was reflected in scenes that played out in dozens of school gymnasiums, church halls and living rooms, as voters in 1,774 precincts tried, at long last, to decide.
The nation's first Republican nominating contest had an unusual dose of unpredictability. Irene Blom, the local Republican chairwoman in Pella, seemed to make a heavenly appeal for electoral clarity in her opening prayer to the hundreds of caucusgoers. ''Lord,'' she said, ''we pray that you guide and direct the person that you have chosen for us.'' She added, ''Help us to know who that might be.''
At 7:15 p.m., after reciting the words to ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' and the Pledge of Allegiance, speakers representing the candidates took the podium, many of them relatives of the contenders themselves. Representative Michele Bachmann's husband, Marcus, described his wife's ''titanium spine.'' Mr. Paul's daughter Joy said her father was resolutely against abortion.
Ms. Blom then said the Prayer for the Unborn. By 8 p.m., within this crowd of minds not made up, there were clear signs that voters had begun to coalesce around Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania. He is one of the field's most conservative candidates and had been a frequent visitor to Pella.
''Santorum all the way,'' Sue Robinson , 60, a buyer for a hospital, said as she filled out her ballot. ''In this community, there is a church on every corner. The decision is faith-based.''
The crowd began to fill out pink paper ballots, which they placed inside an empty Blue Bunny ice cream bucket. In a back room, volunteers tallied the sheets. Mr. Santorum had prevailed, decisively, with 412 votes, compared with 189 for Mr. Paul, 170 for Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and 150 for Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts.
In Clive: Conservatives Versus Moderates
On the western edge of the Des Moines area, in a precinct in the affluent suburban town of Clive, at least 600 people from Precinct 4 crammed into a conference room set up for only 300. The earliest to arrive, Roselea and Richard Grassman, got there more than an hour in advance, eager to get seats.
Here, the struggle between socially conservative and more moderate Republicans seemed real. Mr. Santorum surprised almost everyone when he walked in just after the caucus was called to order. ''Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate,'' Mr. Santorum told the crowd. ''Don't sell America short.''
He was followed by Ralph Reed, the national leader of the Faith and Freedom Coalition. Jackie Gingrich Cushman, the daughter of former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, started crying while relating a story of how her father had rescued the family dog from freezing water. And several members of Mr. Paul's family, including his daughter-in-law and grandson, were also there.
A surrogate for Mr. Romney said that the former governor would be ready to lead on Day One. The precinct had been considered a stronghold for Mr. Romney, and Precinct 4 remained true to its reputation. Mr. Romney won 238 votes, the most by far. Mr. Santorum won 67 votes; Mr. Paul, 53 votes; and Mr. Gingrich, 46 voters. Mr. Perry received seven votes and Mrs. Bachmann fives.
Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah received one vote.
SUSAN SAULNY
In Ames: Young and Old Rally for Ron Paul
Except for a few lights illuminating greenhouses at the edge of the campus, Iowa State University appeared dark on Tuesday night.
Students were still on their holiday break, and most of the dormitories were closed. Caucus organizers down the road at the Ames City Auditorium, which hosted two caucus precincts, were concerned that many young voters might not show up as a result.
And that could have been bad news for Mr. Paul, who had been polling well among young voters in Iowa.
''They have a lot on their plate,'' said Carolyn Jons, a first-time volunteer helping to organize the caucuses..
Among the 250 voters in both precincts who did turn out to cast a vote in the 800-seat concert hall, the audience leaned toward the middle-aged and elderly. But there seemed to be little in terms of generation gap.
Dino Curcio, 53, a private hockey coach, was outspoken about his support for Mr. Paul. ''I felt if I did not become a Ron Paul supporter, I would be voting for national suicide,'' he said.
So despite the absence of a strong showing by young voters, Ron Paul took the night with ease, winning 90 votes versus 61 for Mr. Romney. Mr. Gingrich won 49 votes, and Mr. Santorum, 44. The rest of the vote: Mr. Perry, 18; Mr. Huntsman 6; and Mrs. Bachmann, 5.
Aaron Hintz, 32, stood up, his fist in the air in triumph, as he heard the news.
''Eventually other people will come around to Ron Paul,'' he said, smiling as people got up to leave. ''He's not someone you can learn about in five minutes.''
Other voters were disappointed. Chad Geater, 38, said he had voted for Mr. Gingrich, whom he described as ''the only candidate who can actually lead.''
''A lot of people say we need an outsider, and I do not believe that,'' he said. ''Gingrich not only knows the issues, but he's done a lot of this before.''
STEVEN YACCINO
In Alton: Santorum
In Huckabee Country
The unemployment rate is less than 3 percent in this Sioux County town, a Republican stronghold where social issues dominate and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas was the big winner four years ago.
As voters ambled into the firehouse here, issues like abortion were at the heart of the campaign pitch made by a local couple supporting Mr. Santorum and a visiting Texan who was campaigning for Mr. Perry.
Inside, a volunteer for Mr. Paul tried to recast the candidate's official script to caucusgoers.
''I'm trying to appeal more to the pro-life and Christian conservatives,'' said the volunteer, Matt Laverman.
And in a year in which voters who identify themselves as evangelical Christians have been far more divided about which candidate to support, town like Alton have emerged as a prize.
A speaker for Mr. Santorum, Mike Callagy, offered a fiery pitch for the former Pennsylvania senator as the candidate who could restore America's ''moral center as defined by the Bible,'' adding -- in an apparent reference to the personal issues that have surfaced about other candidates -- ''his walk and his talk matched.''
But Mr. Romney's supporters took a more practical tact, calling him the best candidate to beat President Obama. ''I didn't vote for Mitt Romney in the last caucus, and I wish things had turned out differently,'' said Dan Ruppert. ''I'm definitely going to vote for Mitt Romney now.''
Mr. Santorum received 33 votes. Mr. Romney trailed with 17, followed by Mr. Paul with 12, Mr. Perry with 8 and Mr. Gingrich with 7. With 2 votes, Mr. Huntsman, who did not campaign in the state, outpolled Mrs. Bachmann, a onetime conservative favorite, who did not get a single vote.
Tom Kiernan, the president and chief executive of a bank who ran the caucus meeting, said he was surprised that the argument made by Mr. Romney's supporters did not win out.
''I thought the comment about electability would have more influence than it did,'' he said. ''But we've proven again that our ultraconservative Christian values have spoken to what we want our candidate to be and what values we want our candidate to have.'' A. G. SULZBERGER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Precinct 4 in Clive, Iowa, where Mitt Romney won handily, despite a surprise appearance by Rick Santorum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); ABORTION (62%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (90%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); RICK PERRY (74%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); MICHELE BACHMANN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



147 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Dueling Romney, Santorum Surges In Iowa Caucuses

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by A.G. Sulzberger in Alton, Iowa; Susan Saulny in Clive, Iowa; and Dalia Sussman and Allison Kopecki in New York.

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- Mitt Romney's quest to swiftly lock down the Republican presidential nomination with a commanding finish in the Iowa caucuses was undercut on Tuesday night by the surging candidacy of Rick Santorum, who fought him to a draw on a shoestring budget by winning over conservatives who remain skeptical of Mr. Romney.
In the first Republican contest of the season, the two candidates were separated much of the night by only a sliver of votes, with Mr. Romney being declared the winner by eight ballots early Wednesday morning. But the outcome offered Mr. Santorum a chance to emerge as the alternative to Mr. Romney as the race moves to New Hampshire and South Carolina without Gov. Rick Perry, who announced that he was returning to Texas to assess his candidacy.
''Being here in Iowa has made me a better candidate,'' Mr. Santorum said, arriving at a caucus in Clive, where he urged Republicans to vote their conscience. ''Don't sell America short. Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done.'' 
The Iowa caucuses did not deliver a clean answer to what type of candidate Republicans intend to rally behind to try to defeat President Obama and win back the White House. With 99 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney, whose views represent the polar sides of the party, each had 24.6 percent.
''Onto New Hampshire, let's get that job done!'' Mr. Romney told supporters at a late-night rally, when he was five votes shy of Mr. Santorum. ''Come visit us there, we've got some work ahead.''
The last time the Iowa caucuses produced such a close outcome was in 1980, when George Bush beat Ronald Reagan by two percentage points.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas was a close third on Tuesday with 21 percent of the caucus votes.
''We will go on,'' he said in an upbeat speech. ''There is nothing to be ashamed of.''
The Iowa caucuses, which sounded the opening bell of the Republican contest, did not bring the clarity to the nominating fight as Mr. Romney had hoped.
But even though he did not secure the authoritative victory that he had fought for in the last week, he handily dispatched two rivals who were once seen as his biggest threats, Mr. Perry and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. And Mr. Romney is poised on Wednesday to collect the endorsement of Senator John McCain of Arizona.
Mr. Gingrich was in fourth place with 13 percent of the votes, followed by Mr. Perry with 10 percent and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota with 5 percent. More than 120,000 Republicans took part in the caucus, a turnout that was slightly higher than four years ago.
With Mr. Perry heading back to Texas, Mr. Gingrich pledged to press forward and be on the stage at the next debate on Saturday in New Hampshire.
''There will be a great debate in the Republican Party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama,'' Mr. Gingrich said, pledging to raise the intensity of his criticism of Mr. Romney before the next contests. He offered a glimpse at his approach, calling Mr. Romney a liar whose conservative credentials could not be trusted.
The determined band of Republicans caucusgoers streamed into firehouses, gymnasiums and even a few living rooms across Iowa for the precinct meetings. The caucuses do not award any of the 1,150 delegates needed to win the party's nomination, but the result began reshaping the race as the campaign shifted to New Hampshire and South Carolina.
A snapshot of the Republican mind-set, according to polls of voters as they entered caucus sites, found that Mr. Romney had won the most support among those who said defeating Mr. Obama was the most important quality in a candidate.
Mr. Romney's business experience, which is the spine of his candidacy, was a draw for voters concerned about the economy. Among voters who said the economy was the issue that mattered most in deciding whom to support, a plurality -- about a third -- said they would support Mr. Romney.
In one of the most conservative pockets in the state, the northwestern Iowa town of Alton, a supporter of Mr. Romney urged Republicans gathered at a firehouse to resist ''throwing your vote away.''
''I didn't vote for Mitt Romney in the last caucus, and I wish things had turned out differently,'' said Dan Ruppert, who rose to deliver a testimonial for Mr. Romney. ''I'm definitely going to vote for Mitt Romney now.''
The surveys found that Mr. Paul had far outpaced his rivals among caucusgoers under 40. But he dropped behind Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum among voters 40 and older. Even though older caucusgoers made up a much larger portion of the electorate, Mr. Paul's outsize lead among younger voters kept him competitive.
In the survey of voters arriving at their caucuses, which was conducted by Edison Research for the National Election Pool of television networks and The Associated Press, nearly four in 10 said they had never attended a caucus before. Those new attendees supported Mr. Paul over any other candidate.
Many caucusgoers did not make up their minds until late; entrance polls indicated that nearly half had decided whom to support within the last few days. Mr. Santorum was the candidate who benefited the most from these late-deciders -- a third of them backed him.
Nearly six in 10 voters consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians, the poll found, which illustrated the surge for Mr. Santorum in the closing days of the campaign here.
Mr. Santotrum celebrated late Tuesday by recalling how he had campaigned in all 99 Iowa counties. ''Thank you so much Iowa,'' he told the crowd at a rally in Johnston. ''By standing up and not compromising, by standing up and being bold and leading, leading with that burden and responsibility you have to be first, you have taken the first step in taking back this country.''
Mr. Santorum now faces a challenge of trying to broaden his campaign organization on the fly to compete with the structure that Mr. Romney has spent years building. His aides said he will campaign this week in New Hampshire and South Carolina, vowing to compete with Mr. Romney everywhere.
In polls of Republicans entering the caucus sites, just more than four in 10 said the most important issue was the economy, while about one-third said the federal budget deficit was their chief concern. Asked what quality was the most important in a candidate, about three in 10 voters said the ability to defeat Mr. Obama, while about a quarter said someone who was a true conservative and another quarter said someone who had strong moral character.
As Republicans turned out across the state to render the first judgment of the candidates, some voters conceded that they were still wrestling with selecting someone who stands the best chance of winning in November or one who is fully aligned with conservative principles.
Don Lutz, who works in real estate, arrived early and called himself a ''Newt guy.'' But he said he would not cast his vote that way. He said he was supporting Mr. Romney.
''I don't want to have a vote for nothing,'' Mr. Lutz said in an interview at his caucus meeting in Clive, a suburb of Des Moines. ''I just don't think that Newt is going to be there in the end. When I look at the business side of things, Mitt is probably the most qualified.''
The fissures in the party, particularly among social and economic conservatives, have been exposed during the early stage of the presidential nominating battle. But while Republicans have yet to unite behind a single candidate, they are united in their determination to defeat Mr. Obama.
While Republicans were the focus of the night, thousands of Democrats gathered at their caucus meetings, too. Mr. Obama addressed supporters via video, urging them to come to his defense in the general election.
''It's going to be a big battle, though,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I hope you guys are geared up.''
A woman piped in from Cedar Rapids: ''How do you respond to people who say you haven't done enough?''
''That's why we need four more years,'' Mr. Obama said.
The Iowa campaign, which provided a laboratory for the unregulated money from outside groups that will course through the presidential campaign, quickly moved on to New Hampshire, which will hold its primary next Tuesday, followed by South Carolina on Jan. 21 and Florida on Jan. 31.
While the New Hampshire primary has traditionally drawn the lion's share of attention after the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Romney's strong lead in polls in the state has changed the strategy of some candidates, and South Carolina was quickly emerging as a focal point of the race.
Mrs. Bachmann, whose political fortunes have declined since she won the Iowa straw poll in August, said the caucuses were the beginning of the race for president, not the end of the road for candidates who finish at the bottom of the pack.
''The people of Iowa have spoken, and they have written the very first chapter in this long campaign,'' she said, not elaborating on her plans. ''There are many more paths to be written on the path to the nomination.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Votes from Republicans who caucused in Sigourney, Iowa, were counted on Tuesday inside the Keokuk County Courthouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Gov. Rick Perry of Texas campaigning Tuesday in Iowa. He was heading home to Texas for now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK SANTORUM (91%); RICK PERRY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RON PAUL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



148 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Dealbook Online

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI, PETER J. HENNING, KEVIN ROOSE and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
OFFICE SUPPLIES 3M, the maker of Post-it notes and Scotch Tape, has agreed to buy the office and consumer products business of the Avery Dennison Corporation for $550 million in cash. 
The Avery Dennison unit, which makes folder dividers and a popular brand of highlighters, will expand 3M's already extensive line of office and consumer supplies. The unit is expected to report profit of about $95 million on revenue of about $765 million for 2011. Avery Dennison said it planned to use some of the proceeds to reduce debt and buy back shares. EVELYN M. RUSLI
BUYING SPREE Deal-making in the shale gas sector, one of the hottest last year, is off to a strong start in 2012, with two foreign companies buying big stakes in operations in the United States.
The French oil giant Total announced plans on Monday to buy a piece of the Chesapeake Energy Corporation's shale operation in Ohio for $2.32 billion. Hours later on Tuesday, Sinopec International Petroleum Exploration and Production agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in five Devon Energy shale operations for about $2.2 billion. AZAM AHMED
TRICKY PROSECUTION Most insider trading cases start out with suspicions about well-timed transactions that prove to be lucrative once information about a company becomes public.
A recent decision in the United States District Court in Chicago dismissing civil insider trading charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission highlights how difficult it can be to bridge the gap between suspicious trades and securities fraud, according to White Collar Watch. PETER J. HENNING
MOUNTING LOSSES Last year was dismal for hedge fund performance, according to an index maintained by Eurekahedge, an independent information firm that specializes in hedge fund data.
Amid political uncertainty, the debt-ceiling debate in Congress and mounting fears of a European financial crisis, the Eurekahedge index, which measures average returns, dropped 4.1 percent for the year. KEVIN ROOSE and AZAM AHMED
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); DEBT CEILING (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (70%); EURO CRISIS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); OIL EXPLORATION (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%)

COMPANY: AVERY DENNISON CORP (94%); 3M CO (92%); CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (83%); TOTAL SA (69%); DEVON ENERGY CORP (55%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: AVY (NYSE) (94%); MMM (SWX) (92%); MMM (NYSE) (92%); MMM (FRA) (92%); CHK (NYSE) (83%); TTA (LSE) (69%); TOT (NYSE) (69%); TOT (BIT) (69%); FP (PAR) (69%); FP (BRU) (69%); DVN (NYSE) (55%); SNP (NYSE) (55%); SNP (LSE) (55%); 0386 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (92%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



149 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: 'Ideas Do Have Consequences': the Ron Paul Appeal

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
NEWTON, Iowa -- A Ron Paul stump speech offers something for almost everyone. And that may help explain why Mr. Paul, a 76-year-old Texas congressman, is polling so well here.
For college students, liberals and many veterans, his speeches attack federal drug policy, lament growing income inequality and condemn undeclared wars. By the standards of contemporary American political discourse, he can sound like a pony-tailed advocacy lawyer as he pummels a Democratic administration for carrying out extrajudicial ''assassinations.''
Alluding to the drone-strike killing in Yemen last year of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born radical Muslim cleric, by the Obama administration, Mr. Paul said at one of his final campaign stops: ''If you are construed by him and his executive branch as a bad person, even if you are an American citizen, than you qualify to be assassinated. And that is not the way it is supposed to be done.'' 
For more traditional Republican voters and economic conservatives, Mr. Paul offers dire predictions about the nation's fiscal future if the federal budget and debt are not slashed immediately and deeply; sharp attacks on the Federal Reserve, bailouts, and the dangers of debasing the currency; and a rousing defense of the second amendment. He warns that time is growing short to correct the country's course and save it from a fiscal calamity.
''We have met a crisis here in the last four years, which was a predictable crisis,'' he said during a speech in December. ''Many of the Austrian economists knew there was a bubble. We talked about it for a long time. And the bubble burst. It's different this time, it is big-time different. It's the biggest in the history of the world, what we are facing today.''
Evangelicals and social conservatives often find campaign literature on their seats before a speech starts that extols a proposal by Mr. Paul that ''effectively repeals Roe v. Wade and would prevent activist judges from interfering with state decisions to protect life.''
Mr. Paul's campaign talks are long, discursive, and bounce from place to place -- he generally does not use a prepared text -- but they tend to cover the same core areas: his commitment to following a strict interpretation of the Constitution and how he says that mandates a noninterventionist foreign policy; the need to constrain or eliminate the Federal Reserve; the elimination other parts of the federal government not called for by the Constitution; and a robust embrace of civil liberties that would mean repealing the Patriot Act.
Though he does not employ tested phrases that are ready made for campaign advertisements, Mr. Paul's antiwar, anti-bailout, anti-Fed passages are the ones his audience responds to most. And while most candidates tailor their stump speeches for a local audience, Mr. Paul believes his single-minded focus on the Constitution has universal appeal.
''The Constitution is a great document,'' he has said. ''I have personal beliefs. I believe that individuals should have the right to their life, the right to their liberty, and also the right to keep what they earn. Fortunately for me, the Constitution and my personal beliefs come together. Because the oath of office doesn't say, 'Well, I'm going to go to Washington and I'm going to fulfill my personal beliefs.' It says that we go to office and defend the Constitution against all enemies foreign and domestic.''
Mr. Paul's vow to be a strict Constitutionalist is at the core of his platform, but in recent campaign stops he has been spending more time focusing on his noninterventionist foreign policy, which has drawn criticism from within his party. Mr. Paul employs a defense that also serves as a contrast with his rivals.
''Those people who say that these ideas that I express are dangerous, it sort of baffles me a whole lot, because I think big government is dangerous. I think wars fought endlessly is dangerous. I think printing money and expanding government at will -- that is what is dangerous. Attacking personal liberty -- that is what's dangerous.''
Mr. Paul gives the sense that he is the leader of a movement more than a politician, and he believes the consistency of his message will win over voters. At an appearance in western Iowa he told supporters not to be discouraged by naysayers, that his message and movement were gaining acceptance.
''Smart people get frustrated,'' Mr. Paul said. ''They say, 'I agree with you, but you're one person, and not enough people. How are you going to get the majority to come along with you?'
''But you know what? This is ideological. Ideas do have consequences. Ideas are changing. The ideology of the founders was shared by maybe 5 percent of the people at that time, but they knew and understood and they were well educated and they were able to being the people along. So it isn't a numbers game. It has to do with determination and the rightness and the truthfulness of the ideas.''
''I do not know what the future will bring,'' he added. ''But I do know that a message can be sent -- and hopefully a message can be achieved -- in this election, this campaign, maybe on Tuesday. Who knows? I don't know what the results will be, but I am optimistic that we're moving in the right direction, and that many people are awakening now to the need for more liberty and less government.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BAILOUTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DRUG POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); US PATRIOT ACT (69%); RELIGION (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (57%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



150 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Jan. 4, 1965 | Lyndon Johnson Outlines 'Great Society' Plans

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On Jan. 4, 1965, in his State of the Union address, President Lyndon B. Johnson outlined the goals of ''the Great Society," a set of domestic programs designed to advance civil rights and aid those in poverty. 

 BODY:
On Jan. 4, 1965, in his State of the Union address, President Lyndon B. Johnson outlined the goals of ''the Great Society," a set of domestic programs designed to advance civil rights and aid those in poverty.
The New York Times described Johnson's plans: "He requested 'doubling the war against poverty this year' and called for new emphasis on area redevelopment, further efforts at retraining unskilled workers, an improvement in the unemployment compensation system and an extension of the minimum wage floor to two million workers now unprotected by it. He called for new, improved or bigger programs in attacking physical and mental disease, urban blight, water and air pollution, and crime and delinquency."
President Johnson had introduced his vision of a "great society" in a May 22, 1964 speech: "The great society rests on abundance and liberty for all. It demands an end to poverty and racial injustice, to which we are totally committed in our time."

The Great Society legislation included "War on Poverty" programs, many created under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, which established jobs and youth volunteer programs as well as Head Start, which provided pre-school education for poor children. Johnson's social welfare legislation also consisted of the formation of Medicare and Medicaid, which offered health care services for citizens over 65 and low-income citizens, respectively.
In addition, the Great Society included the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Voting Rights Act of 1968. The program also addressed a wide range of societal needs, such as funding for the arts, environmental protection and urban development,.
Johnson's hopes for a Great Society were undermined by the war in Vietnam, which forced restrictions on domestic spending and destroyed his popularity. He chose not to run for re-election, and many of his Great Society programs were cut by subsequent administrations. Parts of the Great Society did have a lasting impact, however, most notably the civil rights legislation and the creation of the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Connect to Today:
Johnson's social welfare programs were the most contentious aspect of the Great Society. The issue of social welfare remains controversial today, particularly as increasing numbers of Americans slip under the poverty line. In 2010, The Times Room for Debate series addressed the topic of rising poverty in the U.S.
In your opinion, in what ways does U.S. society today reflect Johnson's vision of "liberty and abundance for all"? How would you compare "poverty and racial injustice" today to 1965? If you were to create your own set of "Great Society" programs in 2012, which issues would you like to address and why?
Learn more about what happened in history on January 4
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Dec. 6, 1923 | Calvin Coolidge Delivers First Presidential Address on Radio
        
Nov. 17, 1973 | Nixon Declares 'I Am Not a Crook'
        
Nov. 3, 1936 | Franklin Roosevelt Re-elected in Landslide
        
Nov. 2, 1976 | Carter Defeats Ford in Presidential Election
        
Oct. 20, 1973 | Nixon Tries to Stop Investigation With 'Saturday Night Massacre'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTION LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); HISTORY (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); MEDICAID (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); MEDICARE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CITIES (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (55%); AIR POLLUTION (54%) Civil Rights; civil rights movement; poverty; U.S. History; U.S. presidents; Unemployment; workers; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



151 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Refuses to Delay Trading Rule

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: A divided Commodity Futures Trading Commission rebuffed a request from Wall Street to delay new restrictions on speculative commodities trading. 

 BODY:
A divided Commodity Futures Trading Commission rebuffed a request from Wall Street to delay new restrictions on speculative commodities trading.
The commission's decision, which was finalized Tuesday and announced on Wednesday, was split along party lines, with its three Democratic members voting to reject the request for a stay and the two Republican commissioners supporting the delay. The commission was likewise divided in October, when it adopted the so-called position limits rule, which would cap the number of contracts a trader can hold on 28 commodities, including oil and gas.
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association had asked the commission to stay the enforcement of the position limits while the groups pursued a legal challenge of the new rule. The lobbying groups filed a lawsuit against the commission last month in federal court in the District of Columbia, a move that escalated Wall Street's war against new regulations. 
The commission's adoption of the position-limits rule, which is expected to take effect in part later this year, was seen as a crucial step in the Obama administration's effort to enforce the Dodd-Frank overhaul, the regulatory crackdown passed in response to the financial crisis. 
"Congress was clear that we were to impose position limits promptly," Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner who championed the rule, said in a statement on Wednesday. He added that the denial of the stay request was "a good step toward keeping the ball rolling, and getting these limits in place." 
A spokesman for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said the decision would not impact the group's broader legal challenge to the rule. "We disagree with the C.F.T.C.'s denial of the stay request and look forward to presenting the issue to the D.C. Court of Appeals," said the organization's spokesman, Andrew DeSouza.
In the lawsuit, the two lobbying groups accused the agency of failing to adequately assess the economic effects of the rule. They also noted that Dodd-Frank left it to regulators to enforce position limits "as appropriate," arguing that, in essence, no limits were appropriate. Mr. Chilton has called this argument as "trying to dance on the head of a legal pin."
The rule's supporters say it will help protect consumers from speculative commodities trading. While the financial industry has increased its speculation in the futures market over the last few years, the prices of the underlying commodities have fluctuated wildly. In turn, energy costs and food prices have risen, pinching consumers at the gas pump and the grocery store. 

        
Wall St. Groups Sue Regulator to Challenge New Trading Rule
        
Commodity Panel Moves to Rein In Speculative Trading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); SECURITIES TRADING (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); FOOD PRICES (63%) Bart Chilton; C.F.T.C; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dodd-Frank; Dodd-Frank Act; International Swaps and Derivatives Association; Position Limits; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; Chilton, Bart; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; International Swaps and Derivatives Assn; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (94%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; International Swaps and Derivatives Assn; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Assn

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%) Chilton, Bart

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



152 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Former M.T.A. Chief Recounts His Ups and the System's Downs

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Jay H. Walder put his tenure in New York in a positive light, but said the transportation authority's infrastructure "was in terrible condition." 

 BODY:
Not much has been heard from Jay H. Walder, the former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, since he resigned abruptly last year to take over the sleek and generously financed rail system of Hong Kong.
But on Tuesday, his first formal day at the new job, Mr. Walder resurfaced to weigh in on the state of New York City's mass transit. His prognosis was oddly uneven: grim and overly optimistic in equal parts.
"New York, when I arrived there, was in a financial crisis," Mr. Walder said at a news conference in Hong Kong. "The system simply did not have enough money to continue to operate. The assets were not being renewed. And the infrastructure was in terrible condition."
"What I did," Mr. Walder added, "was to be able to right that financial basis and to be able to put the system back on firm financial footing."
Whether this statement can be considered accurate may depend on one's definition of the word "firm."
It is true that Mr. Walder, a former management consultant, aggressively cut costs at the transportation authority. He laid off workers, renegotiated contracts, and consolidated large parts of the bureaucracy, wringing more than $500 million in annual costs out of a notoriously bloated budget.
But the authority's current financial footing may be less sound than advertised.
Mr. Walder announced his departure for Hong Kong days after the authority unveiled a capital plan dependent on millions of dollars in still-to-be-approved federal grants. The capital budget, which pays for maintenance and expansion, is still underfunded by $10 billion. 
Meanwhile, the 2012 operating budget is held together by spit and glue: planners admitted last month that their balance sheet included $35 million in savings that had not yet been found. The budget also assumes that transit workers will go without raises for three years, under a contract that has yet to be negotiated.
It is not unusual for high-ranking executives to garnish their accomplishments, and Mr. Walder, who is starting a new job on a new continent, may simply have been paraphrasing his work. (A clearer explanation remained elusive on Tuesday, as representatives of Mr. Walder's new company, MTR Corporation, could not be reached.)
But Mr. Walder, whose new perch as chief executive of MTR comes with a salary worth at least three times his compensation in New York, made it clear that he was excited about his new charge. 
"I think we have a very different situation here," Mr. Walder said, of Hong Kong's mass transit system. "We have a first-class railway. We have a sustainable financial model that is supporting that railway. And I think the people of Hong Kong are benefiting tremendously from what we have." 
Mr. Walder added: "I don't think it's the same situation as what you have in New York."
Indeed. MTR, which earns millions of dollars from real estate developments along its rail lines, recently said it would increase train service during the holidays to meet customer demand. 
In New York, the transportation authority, which recently lost $325 million in state financing after Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo eliminated part of a payroll tax, ran fewer peak-hour trains between Christmas and New Year's
 as part of a program to save about $200,000 a year.
Mr. Walder, in a company press release this week, said he would be focused on expanding business opportunities for MTR. 
"There's no standing still," he wrote. "Companies cannot continue to succeed if they stand still."

        
The New Head of the M.T.A. Is Cool, for Now
        
Cuomo Picks Political Veteran to Lead M.T.A.
        
Jay Walder, M.T.A. Chief, Resigns Suddenly
        
M.T.A., Facing Shortfall, Finds Its Inner Suze Orman
        
M.T.A. and Port Authority Chiefs Keep Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) Hong Kong; Jay H. Walder; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Walder, Jay H; Budgets and Budgeting; Infrastructure (Public Works); Transit Systems; MTR Corp; New York City; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; MTR Corp

PERSON: Walder, Jay H

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) Hong Kong; New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



153 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Building a 'Knowosphere,' One Cable and Campus at a Time

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: An optimistic view of how growing global connections, both virtual and face to face, bode well for the human experiment. 

 BODY:
As I wrote over the weekend, the transition to a new year has provided a valuable moment to review goals for this blog and, more generally, assess prospects that the human condition (including the quality of our relationship with our environment) will be improved by the planet's fast-spreading web of communication tools. I looked at blogging on Dec. 30.
Now here's my broader take on what I've begun calling the "knowosphere" -- a word intentionally echoing the more allegorical "noosphere," the "planet of the mind" of Vladimir Vernadsky and Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. Whatever term you use, it's clear that the world is quickly being knitted by new ways to share observations and shape ideas that are bound to have profound impacts on the quality of the human journey. ("Knowosphere" has also been used by Larry Kilham, an entrepreneur and inventor who has been writing about how to remain innovative in the age of Google.)
As recently as a year ago, I was thinking that something new had to be built -- a kind of online hub and toolkit linking like-minded individuals, schools, businesses, museums and other institutions focused on collaborative learning and experimentation.
It'd include a Match.com-style portal for connecting, say, a harried teacher seeking an explanatory video on geo-engineering with student filmmakers eager to test their chops. It would help connect students from communities in different parts of the world pondering similar issues -- like coastal changes from rising sea levels.
The reality is that the tools and initiatives are already out there. See this fun geo-engineering video on YouTube.
And the connections are being made. See the educational work on coasts and climate undertaken by the British group Atlantic Rising.
Some new technology and organization is surely helpful. 
In his column on Sunday, Tom Friedman explored this terrain through the work of Blair Levin, an Aspen Institute fellow who is leading the Gig.U project. This initiative is aiming to build dozens of university-centered networks for innovation and education around the United States, with the goal of fostering what Levin calls "high-performance knowledge exchange and generation."
"Why Don't We Have Fiber Everywhere" is the title of a new post on the Gig.U Web site. I'm all for boosting connectedness here. But I'm more energized by what's already happening with fiber optic, and other links (particularly mobile phones) in parts of the world where cheap access to the Internet remains a dream.
The reality globally is that such connections are spreading at a blazing pace. The most exciting story is not in the United States, but East Africa, and it has its roots partly in the 2010 World Cup.*

Calestous Juma, a professor of "the practice of international development" at Harvard, recently pointed me to the remarkable history of Seacom, a privately financed (and mostly African-financed) fiber-optic cable that was laid from South Africa to Europe in 2009. (Video here.) A substantial impetus for the project was the need to ensure adequate data capacity to reliably broadcast the World Cup matches.
But since the cable was switched on, countries along Africa's east coast have been rapidly tapping in. And more cables are on the way.
After reading up on this development, I e-mailed the following thought and question to Juma before the holidays:
To me, the laying of this cable -- financed on the strength of the bandwidth demand created by the World Cup -- is perhaps the single biggest surprise and source of excitement I've had all year -- showing just how powerful a little connectedness can be, initially for commerce but soon (at least to my mind) for education and true connectedness, of the kind described by the word noosphere.
Combine the cables and related infrastructure expansion with looming ubiquity of smart phones and access to an amazing suite of online courses and knowledge [banks] and you have amazing prospects, to my mind.
Am I over-inflating the significance of what's happening?
Juma replied:
You are as overinflated as the reality is. Your intuition about a small event resulting in far-from-equilibrium scenarios is right on point. What is even better is the indeterminate evolution. Who would have thought really that the real kick would from a sporting event?
I wrote this piece at the time of the Seacom launch and there were some really difficult conversations with some of the editors who thought I was way too optimistic: "New Africa broadband 'ready.'"
Your scenario that includes infrastructure, access devices and content creates a vital force in development that will continue to propel the continent for some time to come.
I think mobile broadband there will have a huge impact on traditional and conservative sectors like education, health, creative arts (film, etc.) and certainly democracy. The underlying theme will be access to technical knowledge that has been Africa's most critical limiting factor to development.
Africa's have learned to do a lot with so little. You can imagine how much they will do with so much.
But unlike uses in other countries that focus more on blockbuster products that enrich a few individuals, I suspect that there will be a humanistic touch to Africa's mobile innovations, bringing solutions to persistent socioeconomic problems. The use of text messaging capacity to revolutionize the banking industry is a good example. Here also you have a different model that is humanistic in character: low-cost, high-volume applications reaching out to the masses.
When you combine the kind of work Levin and others are doing with this global build out of connections (which is going into fast forward as smart phone prices drop), it's hard not to be a rational optimist, as defined in Matt Ridley's illuminating recent book. As Ridley shows, connectivity and commerce are the roots of innovation.
Just as important, to my mind, they can be a source of empathy and trust by offering a sense of expanding community, as well.
The fiber and satellite and other digital links are only one component of the knowosphere. They are the spokes connecting hubs where people are actively engaged, face to face, with new models for innovation and learning.
There's enormous ferment along these lines on many campuses, with enhanced digital connections a great bonus, but person-to-person relationships with surrounding communities, including businesses, easily as important.
In a recent visit to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, I saw an amazing melding of learning and practice in the Design, Innovation and Society program and other clinic-style courses and labs. Some of the results are already on display, including young businesses such as Ecovative Designs -- a manufacturer of mushroom-based packaging and insulation. I'll be posting video I shot there soon.
As I've noted before, it remains to be seen whether the global build out of this network of creative networks results in the kind of unified planet theory of human progress envisioned in a line of thinking from Darwin through Havel.
Deeply embedded traits, particularly tribalism and the dominance of the near and now, cut against the prospect of having a smooth path toward a mature, interrelating, forward-looking civilization - even if individuals, through the Web, expand what the psychiatrist Dan Siegel calls our "we map."
But I believe () that the good will far outweigh the bad.
Progress starts with engagement and intentionality.
It is indeed a small world after all.
*I incorrectly wrote that the World Cup in South Africa was in 2009 and corrected this thanks to an alert reader.

        
Notes from a Blogging 'Discomfort Zone'
        
Your Dot: Meet the Neighbors
        
Sustain What?
        
The No(w)osphere
        
'Is This the Right Room for an Argument?'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); BANDWIDTH (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); TRENDS (64%); SKIING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) bandwidth; blogging; collaboration; communication; Dot Earth; Education; innovation; knowosphere; noosphere; Sustainability; telecommunications; universities; web; Friedman, Tom; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Economic Conditions and Trends; Fiber Optics; Telephones and Telecommunications; World Cup (Skiing); Aspen Institute; GigU; Africa; human nature; optimism

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Aspen Institute; GigU

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (64%) Friedman, Tom

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



154 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: M.I.T. Professor: High Weight and Horsepower Nullify Gains in Efficiency

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: A recently published study suggests that vehicle bloat removes the luster from any advances in efficiency-boosting technology. 

 BODY:
That cars have put on weight and added horsepower should be no great surprise to even casual observers of the auto industry. But a report by an economics professor at M.I.T. tries to quantify to what degree vehicle bloat has impacted the fuel economy that might have been.
According to Christopher Knittel, a professor of applied economics at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, if weight, horsepower and torque were held to their 1980 levels, and efficiency-boosting technologies continued to be honed -- fuel economy for both passenger cars and light trucks would have increased by almost 60 percent from 1980 to 2006, from a present average of 23 miles per gallon across the fleet to approximately 37 m.p.g. He concludes in "Automobiles on Steroids," a research paper published in the American Economic Review, that the actual economy gain during that period was just 15 percent.
Mr. Knittel culled historical data from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, trade publications and directly from automakers.
In a telephone interview Wednesday, Mr. Knittel said that while the addition of robust safety equipment to vehicles caused some of the weight gain, changing preferences among consumers was a greater contributor to the lackluster economy numbers.
"In 1980, just 18 percent of new cars sold in the United States were light trucks," he said. "By 2004, it was 60 percent. That led to a 30 percent increase in weight over that time, and a doubling of horsepower." In 1980, the average weight for passenger cars was 3,041 pounds, but it rose to 3,455 pounds by 2006.
He cited the television program "Magnum P.I.," whose titular character drove, among other cars, a Ferrari 308 GTS capable of reaching 60 miles per hour from a standstill in approximately 7.3 seconds. "Today, a V-6-powered Toyota RAV4 can beat that Ferrari," he said.
As might be expected, the auto industry defends its fuel-economy record, especially in recent years.
"This year, automakers are selling 270 models that achieve 30 m.p.g. or more," Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents 12 major manufacturers in the United States, wrote in an e-mail. "The M.I.T. report stops at 2006, just when automakers began meeting greater consumer demand for fuel economy with new technologies. In 2008, when gas reached $4 a gallon, we couldn't keep the most fuel-efficient autos on dealers' lots," she added.
Mr. Knittel acknowledged that gasoline costing $4 a gallon in 2008 led many buyers toward fuel-efficient vehicles and away from S.U.V.'s and pickups, but it was not indicative of a momentum shift, he said. "They certainly were losing weight then, but as gas prices fell that shift has slowed. I'm not faulting the automakers. It's the role of policymakers to incentivize fuel economy shifts," he said.
To ensure a more fuel-efficient auto fleet, Mr. Knittel favors a gas tax rather than the mandated fleet averages dictated by the Corporate Average Fuel Economy program, or CAFE, which would require automakers in 2025 to achieve a fleet-wide average of 54.5 m.p.g.
"Performance standards like CAFE are highly inefficient, but they're politically palatable," he said.

        
Driving Tips for Improving Fuel Economy
        
Congressman Presses California on Fuel-Economy Standards
        
Congress Considers Increased Financing to Study Alcohol Interlocks
        
Delayed Down Under, a Michigan Team Recharges in the World Solar Challenge
        
Poll Finds Support Among Small Businesses for Tougher Fuel Economy Standards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HISTORY (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; fuel economy; Fuel Efficiency; M.I.T.; SUV; Environment; Technology

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



155 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Some Countries Are More Social Than Others, Survey Finds

BYLINE: SOMINI SENGUPTA


HIGHLIGHT: In the big cities of India and China, it seems, people can't help being social. Nearly everyone who uses the Internet there is also active on social networks, according to a global survey by Forrester Research, and three out of four write blog posts or upload pictures and music. 

 BODY:
 In the big cities of India and China, it seems, people can't help being social. Nearly everyone who uses the Internet there is also active on social networks, according to a vast global survey by Forrester Research, and most of them do much more than read and watch what's posted online. Three out of four of them write blog posts or upload pictures and music.
Cultures reveal themselves online. Italians are twice as likely to visit a social networking site as Germans. The Japanese prefer anonymity and eschew Facebook, which demands real names, for the more flexible Japanese network called Mixi.
Europeans and Americans seem to be equally passive: less than a fourth post any content at all. They use social media heavily, though: 86 percent among online Americans and 79 percent among online Europeans, according to Forrester. The results of the online survey, collected from 95,000 Internet users in 18 countries, were released on Wednesday.
Three-fourths of Facebook users are outside the United States, as is more than half of the Twitterverse. In China, India, Mexico and Brazil - countries where Internet penetration is lower than in the United States and Europe -- 93 percent of those who are online use social networks at least once a month, the Forrester report found.
"If you've been putting all your social efforts into the U.S. and the U.K., it's time to shift your focus - and your budget - to the countries where users are more social," Forrester said.
A study by the Pew Research Center released in December captured somewhat different figures on social network use. In the United States, 60 percent of online adults said they used Facebook, while in France the share was 48 percent and Germany 44 percent.
The most revealing finding of the Pew study was that in countries with substantial social unrest, social network use rose markedly: In Egypt, 28 percent of online adults said they used social networking sites like Facebook in 2011, compared to 18 percent the year before. In Russia, the figure rose to 43 percent from 33 percent during the same period.
An earlier version of this post quoted the wrong results from a Pew Research Center study. The results in the earlier version referred to all adults, not just those who are Internet users. (Those found that 50 percent of adults in the United States said they used Facebook, while in France and Germany, the share was 35 percent.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (94%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%) Facebook Inc; Internet; Social

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook Inc

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (86%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



156 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for the Dean of Admissions of the University of Pennsylvania

BYLINE: JACQUES STEINBERG and HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: In an acknowledgment of the passionate interest that Indian students have in American colleges, India Ink introduces a regular feature in collaboration with The Choice, The New York Times's college admissions blog. First up: an interview with an Ivy League dean. 

 BODY:
In spring 2009, The New York Times started a blog called The Choice to demystify the process of applying to American colleges and universities, and paying for it. The blog has since offered countless tips and reams of news on all aspects of the American college admissions process to an audience of students and their families, as well as to their counselors and to college admissions officers themselves.
In an acknowledgment of the growing and passionate interest Indian students have in American universities, the offerings of The Choice blog will now be featured regularly on India Ink, though customized for an Indian audience. We'll look at everything from the importance of standardized test scores to what a liberal arts education really means -- and we want to hear from Indian students who are looking at American universities and their parents, about the questions they may have along the way. 
As our inaugural feature, we drafted a list of 10 questions about applying to elite American colleges from India, and then put those questions to the admissions officials from the University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy League institution that is one of the most prestigious and competitive in the United States. They are Eric J. Furda, dean of admissions, and Patrick Bredehoft, regional director of admissions. (As it turns out, the two men are scheduled to be in Mumbai from Jan. 13 to 15, to meet with alumni, recently admitted students and school counselors.)
What follows is an edited version of our exchange:
Q.
To what extent is the process of applying to be an undergraduate at the University of Pennsylvania, and other selective American colleges, similar for applicants from India (and other foreign countries) when compared with the process for American applicants? To what extent is it different?
A.
As with other international regions, the most significant differences for students applying from India (as compared with their counterparts in the United States) are likely to be: varying levels of English preparation (particularly academic English, since most Indians get exposed to some of the language in school), inconsistent SAT/test preparation and most of all, limited and even inaccurate information about American schools.
Admissions officers also have to be sensitive to cultural context around extracurricular opportunities, grading policies and family expectations as they relate to choices like intended major. None of these issues appear to be a major obstacle to applicant success in India, though, where we're seeing large numbers of qualified applicants. 
Students and families should also be aware of the financial aid policies at the schools to which they are applying. Is the school need-blind? What is the availability of financial aid for international students who are admitted?
Q.
How does the University of Pennsylvania balance the competing desire to assemble a freshman class that has a diverse range of students from non-American countries, with what would seem to be the primary mission of serving an American clientele?
A.
In terms of diverse recruitment, we're doing extensive on-the-ground work to ensure that we not only admit a robust cohort of Indian students each year, but that these students reflect the diversity in India. Geographically, Penn is recruiting from cities across the country, and expanding efforts beyond the major cities (not just Mumbai, New Delhi and Bangalore, etc.). 
India is a country comprised of multiplicity of ethnicities, languages and professional/socio-economic backgrounds, and we're committed to the idea that our Penn cohort should reflect that diversity. As an American institution, we do have a responsibility to our local Philadelphia region and to the nation as a whole. Having an internationally diverse institution benefits all of our students, from America and abroad.
Q.
On a related note: Will there, in fact, be only so many Indian applicants, more or less, who can be accepted each year? Is there, in effect, an upper limit for the number of applicants you will accept from India and other countries? If so, how does the figure for India compare with the figure from China?
A.
India is typically in the top three for admitted students by school country. Inherent in the college admissions process is a degree of selectivity. Although there is no upper limit from any one country, the class size at Penn is 2,420 students, so that is our enrollment upper limit.
Q.
How hard-and-fast is the Jan. 1 deadline for applicants from India and other countries, considering that some may wait to hear from universities closer to home before seeking out a school like the University of Pennsylvania? What sort of resources do you make available to potential applicants who want to visit the school before applying?
A.
It's true that the extreme competition for a place in the top Indian schools, coupled with demand for university places that significantly outstrips supply, is causing more Indian students to consider applying to U.S. schools (as reported in The New York Times). However, our strongest applicants are still choosing US schools because they perceive the value of a U.S. education that includes breadth of intellectual exposure through a broad based liberal arts curriculum, incredible potential for undergraduate research and unparalleled opportunities to gain preparation for leadership on a global scale. 
There is also a rapidly growing number of families who can consider a U.S. college education as a viable financial investment, which has promoted strong interest in Penn (and our peers) in India. We have our deadlines for a reason - so we have a reasonable amount of time to make very difficult decisions. If there is a personal reason or regional context (extreme weather) which would make a deadline a hardship, we would certainly consider giving some reasonable flexibility to the date. 
For international students, some students will submit their applications and then save the time and resources for a visit after they are admitted. For students who cannot make a visit from India, Penn's Office of Admissions makes frequent visits each year, which include open forums for students and parents.
Q.
How many applicants overall applied to the University of Pennsylvania for the current freshman class, and how many were accepted? How many applied from India, and how many were accepted? Has the percentage of Indian students, and applicants, changed significantly in the past decade?
A.
Penn's applicant has grown by 55 percent over the past five years, and the pool from India by 80 percent in that same time. For the class of 2015, 31,663 students applied to Penn, and 3,931 were admitted. (That is an admission rate of just over 12 percent.)
From India, 460 students applied, and 42 were admitted, for an admission rate of just under 10 percent. Still, a growing number of students have been admitted from India, with increasing diversity in terms of geography, number of schools, ethnicity and professional/socio-economic background. 
Q.
Does the University of Pennsylvania provide financial aid for applicants applying from India and other foreign countries, and how is that process different than it might be for American applicants? Are admissions need-blind in both cases? What sort of financial information does the university need to determine a student's financial need?
A.
Although we're still need-aware for most international students, we have seen growth in the endowed funds available for Indian students, along with the growing availability of financial aid for international students in general. Penn has a strong commitment to fully finance all students who are admitted. This includes a loan-free financial aid package, so students can graduate debt-free. Between $6 million to $8 million per year has been awarded to international students.
Q.
What advice would you give to applicants from India in particular when applying to the University of Pennsylvania, and other selective private colleges in the U.S.? Is there any common theme you see among Indian applicants and how could a student from India stand out?
A.
In general, Indian students tend to put forth strong applications in nearly every respect. The two of the most common issues and areas for improvement are: 1) Recommendations (which often tend to be brief, vague and short on details that help to define the applicant as an individual) and 2) Essays (which frequently err on the side of presenting an extensive resume of accomplishments, rather than highlighting the unique experiences or perspective of the individual applicant.)
Q.
Do you have any special groups or facilities for South Asian students or Indian students on campus? Do you have a variety of South Asia-related courses?
A.
Founded in 1992, the Center for the Advanced Study of India (CASI) at the University of Pennsylvania is the only research institution in the United States dedicated to the study of contemporary India. The University of Pennsylvania has been at the forefront of area studies since 1942 when Prof. W. Norman Brown pioneered the study of modern India, a full 15 years before area studies appeared on any other U.S. campus. That legacy continues at the School of Arts and Sciences through the Department of South Asian Studies and its South Asia Center, and the stellar holdings of the South Asian Studies Collection at the Van Pelt Library. 
Penn Masala, the world's first and premier Hindi a cappella group, was formed in 1996 by a group of Penn students. After breakthrough performances at Bhangra Blowout in 1998 and SASA 1999, the group drew sellout crowds in the U.S. and abroad.
Q.
To what extent does the University of Pennsylvania recruit in India, and do you bump into other American colleges when you do so?
A.
Penn's Regional Director of Admissions for India, Patrick Bredehoft, was amazed at the number of schools (U.S. and Canada) that were actively recruiting in India this fall. Counselors at one school in Mumbai told him that they had seen more than 50 visitors from different colleges and universities in the preceding month. He often found himself sharing time (or nearly overlapping) with other school representatives throughout his travels in the country. Penn continues to travel broadly and frequently to India, particularly when you factor in the significant recruitment bring done by our alumni volunteers as well.
Q.
Can you list a few recent alumni from India?
A.
Penn alumni from India are leaders in all fields of endeavor. We do however want to respect their privacy. But any Penn alumni reading this blog can certainly contribute ideas about their Penn experiences.
Meanwhile, you can read a reader Q&A that Mr. Furda did with The Choice blog in October 2009. Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed to this post.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); FAMILY (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%) American College Admissions; Choice Blog; University of Pennsylvania; The Choice on India Ink

COMPANY: INDIA INK (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (77%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



157 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2330 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
For Wall Street Overseer, Progress Comes at a Crawl | Leading a new federal agency intended to help prevent another financial crisis may seem like a dream job for most economic gurus, but the government made a nomination only last month after a painfully slow search process.
The Treasury Department first considered at least three other candidates during the 17-month hunt for a director of the new agency, the Office of Financial Research. But they all rebuffed the job, in part over fears about the contentious Congressional approval process. The White House finally identified the in-house nominee -- Richard Berner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary who was formerly chief United States economist for Morgan Stanley -- in a little-noticed news release late on a Friday in December.
"I was a little frustrated" by the process, said Lewis S. Alexander, a former counselor to the Treasury secretary, who helped lead the search. "This is a harder job to fill than I would have thought."
Establishing the Office of Financial Research has become another example of the struggle to put the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul into effect. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Dimon Detects 'Hostility' Toward Wall Street | Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said his firm expanded last year despite some challenges. "There is a lot of frustration out there and more than a little hostility toward our industry," he said in an e-mail to staff, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
When a Mattress Won't Do | Fearful for the health of banks, Greeks and Italians are searching for secure repositories for their money, and are finding them in unconventional places, Reuters writes.
"There has been a big increase in rentals of safe deposit boxes, about fivefold compared with last year," one unidentified banker at a foreign-owned bank told Reuters. "The most extreme case was a client who told me he was building a safe under his pool." REUTERS
Insult Added to Injury at Kodak | Eastman Kodak, which has struggled to stay afloat, was warned by the New York Stock Exchange that it was out of compliance with listing requirements, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Yahoo Said to Be Preparing to Name New Chief | Yahoo could announce a new chief executive as early as Wednesday morning, with Scott Thompson, president of PayPal, seen as a likely contender, AllThingsD reports, citing unidentified people close to the situation. ALLTHINGSD
Exxon Weighs Restructuring of Japanese Stake | Exxon Mobil said it was in talks with TonenGeneral Sekiyu K.K., its Japanese unit, to restructure its stake in the company, but still planned to remain in the country, Bloomberg News reports. Reuters, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter, earlier reported that Exxon was looking to sell most of its Tonen stake as it prepared to retreat from Japan. BLOOMBERG NEWS | REUTERS
Investors Bet on Medco Deal | Despite regulators' tough antitrust stance, shares of Medco Health Solutions rose to within $9 of Express Scripts' cash-and-stock agreement to buy the company, Bloomberg News writes. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PetroChina in Canadian Oil Deal | The Athabasca Oil Sands Corporation, a Canadian crude oil company, said it was selling a 40 percent stake in a project in northern Alberta to the PetroChina Company for $666 million, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
At RIM, Deeper Issues May Be Behind Delay, Analysts Say | After Research in Motion announced it would not release a new BlackBerry phone until the end of 2012, some analysts suspected that the delay was due to significant performance issues that the company must resolve, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Shale Deals and Political Risk | Amid evidence that the drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing can cause environmental damage, recent shale deals by Total and Sinopec to drill in the United States could encounter political resistance, Reuters BreakingViews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Australian Coal Miner Drops Asset Sales Managed by UBS | Bandanna Energy, the Australian coal miner, said it was abandoning formal asset sales managed by UBS, but said it would continue informal talks with potential buyers, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Maker of Artificial Hips to Spin Off Biologics Unit | Smith & Nephew, a European maker of artificial hips and knees, is receiving $98 million in cash for its biologics business, which will be spun off into a joint venture with the health care investing firm Essex Woodlands, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
UniCredit Offering Weighs on Its Shares | UniCredit of Italy, seeking to raise capital to comply with new banking requirements, offered existing shareholders a significant discount on new stock on Wednesday, sending its shares tumbling. DealBook 
Citigroup Sells $2.5 Billion of Debt | Citigroup on Tuesday completed its largest bond sale since 2009, attracting strong demand for debt that offered a premium of 360 basis points above Treasury securities, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Unable to Raise Capital, Brokerage Firm Calls It Quits | WJB Capital, a tiny broker dealer pushing to expand in the shadows of large Wall Street banks, has decided to close up shop after being unable to raise money from investors in recent weeks. DealBook 
Will Smaller Firms Shut Down? | After major investment banks announced big job cuts in 2011, the coming year may see some smaller players go out of business, Reuters BreakingViews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Internal Disputes at Jefferies | After a difficult few months in which it battled speculation about its financial health, Jefferies & Company faced a fresh challenge this week when employees in its prime brokerage unit threatened to leave the firm in a dispute over compensation and a recent restructuring, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Praise of Boring Banks | To prevent the next financial panic, the government should guarantee all bank deposits and require banks to ditch risky activities like derivatives trading, Amar Bhide writes in a column in The New York Times. "If the average examiner can't understand it," he says, "it shouldn't be allowed." NEW YORK TIMES
Banks Pessimistic on Asia | Big banks are preparing to make cuts in Asia as they darken their outlook for the region, which lately has been a driver of growth, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Competing for Star Bankers in Asia | Even as banks look to cut costs in Asia, they are competing for top deal makers like Matthew Koder, who was hired last year by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Pimco Hit With $5 Billion of Withdrawals | The Pimco total return fund, managed by Bill Gross, saw its first year of withdrawals on record, according to Morningstar, as it trailed most of its peers, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Analysts Predict 57% Jump in Bank Earnings | The forecast for 2012 follows a prediction that profit would increase 32 percent in 2011, when in actuality earnings per share probably decreased 18 percent, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Carlyle Buys Stake in Turkish Education Company | The Carlyle Group bought a 48 percent stake in Bahcesehir Koleji, a Turkish schools company that serves about 12,000 students, under its $500 million Middle East and North Africa fund, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Cerberus Sells Staffing Agencies to Japanese Company | Recruit, a Japanese human resources company, paid $410 million to buy two staffing agencies from Cerberus Capital Management, the private equity firm, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Reliance and Apollo Said to Eye El Paso Unit | Apollo Global Management, the private equity firm, and Reliance Industries, an Indian conglomerate, are among companies looking to buy an oil exploration unit of the El Paso Corporation, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bus Operator Files for Bankruptcy | Coach America, one of the country's biggest bus operators, said its decision to file for Chapter 11 protection arose not from business difficulties but from the burden imposed by its big debt load. DealBook 
Big Dutch Fund Dumps Wal-Mart and PetroChina | The biggest pension fund in the Netherlands, Algemeen Burgerlijk Pensioenfonds, said on Tuesday that it had divested its stakes in Wal-Mart Stores and PetroChina and blacklisted both companies in its portfolio, citing noncompliance with United Nations human rights principles, according to MarketWatch. DealBook 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Och-Ziff Pushes for Stricter Collateral Rule | Och-Ziff Capital Management, the hedge fund firm, and Fidelity Investments are asking the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for tougher requirements to ensure the safety of customer funds, as the agency prepares to release a new rule, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citigroup Sues Hong Kong Hedge Fund Manager | The Singapore unit of Citigroup sued Raghavendran Rajaraman, a hedge fund manager based in Hong Kong who had an account at the bank, seeking to recover $1.03 million of losses on gold trades, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Funds End 2011 on a Very Bad Note | Last year was dismal for hedge funds, according to an index maintained by Eurekahedge, an independent research firm that specializes in hedge fund data. DealBook 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Daily Deal Concerns Haunt Groupon | Shares of Groupon fell below their initial offering price, as merchants have questioned the value of offering daily deals and investors have grown skittish, Bloomberg News writes. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Chinese I.P.O.'s in America Are Shunned | In a sign of the difficulties facing Chinese companies, the combined value of those that delisted from American exchanges in 2011 exceeded the amount that companies raised in I.P.O.'s, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Preparing to Go Public in an Uncertain Market | More than 1,400 companies, including Facebook and Manchester United, are planning initial offerings this year, according to Bloomberg data, but bankers expect 2012 to be as rough as 2011, The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Andreessen Steps Away From Big Deals | Marc Andreessen, co-founder of the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, who recently invested in big technology companies like Facebook and Twitter, said some private company deals were "expensive," adding that he was now looking to invest in lesser-known start-ups, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
When Tech Investors Win, They Win Big | Successful technology companies that investors sold raised, on average, $25.3 million and sold for $196.8 million, scoring a 676 percent return, according to TechCrunch's CrunchBase. TECHCRUNCH
Klout Is Said to Raise About $30 Million | Klout, which gives users scores based on their social media influence, was said to have raised about $30 million in a round of funding, Business Insider reports, citing an unidentified person. BUSINESS INSIDER | TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Fed to Publish Interest Rate Forecast | As it seeks to strengthen its influence over the economy, the Federal Reserve will publish its senior officials' predictions about short-term interest rates, The New York Times reports. Its member set the rates. NEW YORK TIMES
Swiss Central Bank Chief Said to Have Profited on Currency Trades | Philipp Hildebrand, head of the Swiss National Bank, personally engaged in questionable currency deals that were thought to have been carried out by his wife, Kashya Hildebrand, the Swiss magazine Weltwoche reports, according to the Associated Press. ASSOCIATED PRESS
MF Global Said to Have Hastily Sold Assets to Goldman | In the days leading to its collapse, MF Global sold hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of securities to Goldman Sachs in an attempt to raise cash, but the brokerage was not immediately paid by its clearing firm and lender, JPMorgan Chase, Reuters reports, citing unnamed MF Global employees with direct knowledge of the transactions. REUTERS
MF Global British Employees May Not Receive Bonuses | Claims for cash bonuses by the failed brokerage's British employees were treated as unsecured, placed near the bottom of the heap in the bankruptcy proceedings, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Dealt Setback in MBIA Lawsuit | A judge lowered the burden of proof on the bond insurer MBIA, which has accused Countrywide Financial, a unit of Bank of America, of fraudulently inducing it to insure securities, Reuters reports. REUTERS
S.E.C. Sues Life Insurance Company | Life Partners Holdings, which buys life insurance policies, along with three of its executives were sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which alleged faulty statements, improper accounting and insider trading, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Central Bank Names Economics Chief | In a move that could signal the beginning of a less hard-line approach to policy, the European Central Bank named Peter Praet, a Belgian who is a former economist at the International Monetary Fund, as its de facto chief economist, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
U.S. Accuses Swiss Bankers of Tax Conspiracy | The United States charged three Swiss bankers with conspiring with wealthy Americans to avoid taxes, saying they tried to capture business lost as the Internal Revenue Service investigated UBS, Reuters reports. The bankers, Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller, worked for Wegelin & Company, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); MERGERS (65%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (83%); TONENGENERAL SEKIYU KK (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); PAYPAL INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 5012 (TSE) (60%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (56%); SCOTT L THOMPSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



158 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Video of Cuomo's State of the State Address

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is giving his second State of the State address on Wednesday. 

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, New York's 56th governor, delivered his second State of the State address on Wednesday at the Empire State Plaza convention center in Albany. Mr. Cuomo's speech, which can be watched in the player above, focused on economic development issues, including the expansion of casino gambling, and on increased accountability for the state's public school system. 
Read an article offering analysis of the speech and discussion and search the text of Mr. Cuomo's speech as provided by his office.
Post a Comment 

        
Gearing Up for Cuomo's State of the State Address
        
Analysis of Cuomo's State of the State
        
Livery Cabs Idle as the Power Couple Bickers
        
A Deal Within the Tax Deal: Transit Riders Beware
        
Tax Cut or Tax Increase?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); TAX LAW (84%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); GAMING (55%); CASINOS (55%) Andrew M. Cuomo; New York State; State of the State; Cuomo, Andrew M; Politics and Government; Speeches and Statements; State of the State Message (NYS); Albany; Government & Politics

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (95%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



159 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Advice on the Housing Crisis

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: A Federal Reserve report to Congress says Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could help end the chill in the housing market by worrying less about their own short-term financial condition. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve tried Wednesday to stir interest among policy makers in the problems afflicting the housing market, sending a white paper to Congress outlining suggestions for easing those problems.
The paper makes two basic points:
1. There are no silver bullets.
2. It certainly would be helpful if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are controlled by the government, gave the health of the housing market greater priority than their own short-term financial condition.
The Fed is concerned that the collapse of mortgage lending during the financial crisis is hardening into "a potentially long-term downshift in the supply of mortgage credit." One reason for this, the paper says, is that Fannie and Freddie, which provide the money for most mortgage loans, are scaring lenders by aggressively seeking refunds on defaulted loans.
The policy helps Fannie and Freddie "maximize their profits on old business and thus limits draws on the U.S. Treasury, but at the same time, it discourages lenders from originating new mortgages," the paper says.

In a similar vein, the paper says that Fannie and Freddie - known as government-sponsored enterprises, or G.S.E.'s - have pushed to resell foreclosed properties even when converting properties into rental units makes more sense. The paper calculates that for two-fifths of the properties owned by Fannie Mae, renting could actually reduce its losses.
The paper also gives a tepid review of recent changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which seeks to help homeowners refinance into more affordable loans, noting that "more might be done."
"The structure of the HARP program highlights the tension between minimizing the G.S.E.'s' exposure to potential losses and stabilizing the housing market," said the paper, which was delivered Wednesday to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has guardianship of Fannie and Freddie, has said repeatedly that it is required by law to minimize their losses, which are borne by taxpayers and already exceed $150 billion. The paper suggests this mandate could be interpreted more broadly, as "some actions that cause greater losses to be sustained by the G.S.E.'s in the near term might be in the interest of taxpayers" in the long term. It does not take the other road of calling for Congress to change the law.
Indeed, the overall tone of the paper is cautious, playing down, for example, the potential benefits of principal reductions for owners whose mortgage debts exceed the value of their homes. In this sense, it falls solidly in line with the conventional wisdom in Washington that policy makers lack the power to lift the housing market from its deep depression.
"There is unfortunately no single solution for the problems the housing market faces," the paper concludes. "Instead, progress will come only through persistent and careful efforts to address a range of difficult and interdependent issues."
Just the kind of work that Congress is equipped to handle.

        
Answers to Your Questions on the Foreclosure Crisis
        
What We've Learned: Ugly Truths About Housing
        
Beyond Fannie and Freddie, a New Approach
        
When Privatization Increases Public Spending
        
The Future of Freddie and Fannie

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%) Fannie Mae; Federal Reserve; Freddie Mac; housing; Mortgages; Senate Banking Committee; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae; Federal Reserve System; Senate Committee on Banking; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae|FNMA|OTCBB

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae; Federal Reserve System; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae; FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (92%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



160 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Aside, Market for I.P.O.'s Stays Cool

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Investors are eagerly awaiting an initial public offering from Facebook, but otherwise they are still recovering from a tepid market in 2011. 

 BODY:
It will take more than Facebook to heat up the tepid market for initial public offerings.
As conditions remain fragile, the backlog of public offerings has continued to grow. More than 200 American companies are now waiting to go public, the highest number in roughly a decade, according to Renaissance Capital, an advisory firm.
 Demand is mixed. Investors are eagerly anticipating an offering from Facebook, which is expected to go public in the second quarter at a market value of $100 billion. But other companies - including Toys "R" Us, Yelp and the Carlyle Group - may not get such a warm reception.
Facebook "will bring a potentially unprecedented amount of attention to the I.P.O. market," said Peter Falvey, a managing director at Morgan Keegan, an investment bank. But, he said, "its I.P.O. in all likelihood won't have a tremendous impact on the ability of other companies to execute offerings."
The problem is that investors are still recovering from 2011. About 70 percent of the companies that went public in 2011 are trading below their offering prices, according to Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital.
Wary of risk, investors have gravitated toward more established stocks in recent months. In 2011, the Renaissance Global I.P.O. Index, which tracks recent public offerings, tumbled 20.6 percent. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which tracks large-cap companies, was relatively flat for the year.
"Deals will come, but at least initially, investors are likely to look carefully at pricing," said Brian Reilly, head of United States equity capital markets for Barclays Capital.
Last year started with promise, with a rising tide of confidence in the equity markets and an exuberance for the new generation of Internet companies. A string of technology offerings, like LinkedIn, the professional social network, and Yandex, the so-called Google of Russia, posted at least double-digit gains on their debuts. In the first half of 2011, 78 companies went public in the United States, raising $25.6 billion, more than double the amount raised in the period a year earlier, according to data from Renaissance Capital.
But the rally was short-lived. With trouble in Europe and growth in the American economy remaining sluggish, volatility ruled the markets in the late summer, effectively shuttering the market for public offerings. In the second half of the year, a total of 448 companies went public worldwide, raising $55.6 billion, a 68 percent drop from the second half of 2010, according to data from Thomson Reuters. The markets in Asia were among the hardest hit, with I.P.O. volume plunging nearly 73 percent, to $32.7 billion, during the period. 
Several well-known brands managed to go public in November and December, including Groupon, Zynga and the fashion retailer Michael Kors. But many of the companies that went public in the second half of 2011 have struggled to hold on to early gains. Groupon, the daily deals site, has seesawed wildly. Its stock now stands at roughly $19, just below its initial price. Zynga, which went public in mid-December, has never closed above its offering price of $10 a share.
"The market got ahead of itself," said Jeffrey H. Bunzel, the head of equity capital markets for the Americas for Credit Suisse. "Earlier in the year, there were unrealistic expectations. Since then the macro environment has definitely come down."
With returns still depressed, many analysts say they believe 2012 will continue to be a challenging one for public offerings. Many companies hoping to go public will have to cut their prices or the size of their offerings to match investor appetite, they say.
"We don't believe investors will be very comfortable investing in this I.P.O. market because they are still nursing inferior returns for recent I.P.O.'s.," Ms. Smith said.
Despite the muted backdrop, the number of companies waiting to go public is growing. Nineteen companies filed to go public in the United States in December, nearly 50 percent more than in December 2010. The modest uptick was a notable increase compared with the doldrums of September, when there were zero filings.
Private equity is also expected to be a major driver of offerings in 2012. Deals backed by private equity made up more than half of the total volume in the United States last year, including multibillion-dollar offerings from the hospital company HCA and the pipeline operator Kinder Morgan. But most of the activity came in the first six months, amid favorable conditions, and buyout shops are facing increasing pressure to liquidate maturing portfolios.
"Financial sponsors have a very large portfolio of companies looking to access the public markets," Mr. Bunzel said. "The level of participation may be even higher this year, frankly."
While the majority of the public offering market is closely tied to the finicky winds of today's stock markets and the fortunes of Europe, many analysts say they believe Facebook will be a singular event. The social network, which has nearly a billion users, is expected to attract a bevy of investors at home and abroad.
A strong debut from Facebook will not be a cure-all for the feeble public offering market, analysts say. A flop, however, could deal a hearty blow.
"In the somewhat unlikely event that the valuation or aftermarket performance of Facebook's I.P.O. is disappointing," Mr. Falvey of Morgan Keegan said, "then there could be a hangover effect whereby investors think, if even Facebook's I.P.O. was disappointing, what does that mean for the prospects of other companies?"

        
Facebook May Be Forced to Go Public Amid Market Gloom
        
As Investors Flee Groupon, Outlook for I.P.O.'s Darkens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); STATISTICS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Carlyle Group; Facebook; Groupon; HCA; Initial Public Offerings; Kinder Morgan; LinkedIn; michael kors; Toys "R" Us; Yandex; Yelp; Zynga; Facebook Inc; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Media; Technology

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); TOYS 'R' US INC (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); YANDEX NV (53%); GOOGLE INC (53%); GROUPON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Carlyle Group; Facebook Inc; Yelp

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%); YNDX (NASDAQ) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



161 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of Iowa

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Republican caucus-goers took a weak field and made it stronger. 

 BODY:
It's easy to complain about the Iowa caucuses - easy and completely justifiable. Iowa's caucus-goers have given us the presidency of Jimmy Carter, lent credibility to Pat Robertson's political ambitions and created a permanent constituency for ethanol subsidies among Democrats and Republicans alike. As friendly and civic-minded as Iowans may be, there's no reason why a low-turnout contest in a small, rural state should play such an outsize role in every presidential nominating process.
But in the wake of Tuesday night's Romney-Santorum photo finish and Ron Paul's strong third-place showing, it must be said that this time around Iowans have discharged their responsibility impressively. Presented with the weakest presidential field of any major party in a generation, they made the best of a bad situation, punching the three most deserving tickets without handing any of them a decisive victory. 
This isn't what you'll hear from the many disappointed conservatives who dislike all of Iowa's top finishers - Romney because he's too moderate and phony, Paul because he's too libertarian and anti-interventionist, and Santorum for all sorts of reasons (his aggrieved personality, his lack of electability, the taint of Bush-era "big government conservatism," to name three). But on substance and strategy alike, Iowa's top three deserved their joint quasi-victory, and the losers all deserved to lose.
This was particularly true of Rick Perry, who managed to spend $6 million advertising in Iowa without laying a glove on his competition, and whose reputation as a stud campaigner evaporated in the dead air of his atrocious debate performances. But Michele Bachmann and Newt Gingrich also squandered significant opportunities: Bachmann by never finding a message more compelling than her promise to make Barack Obama a one-term president, and Gingrich by wallowing in the mix of grandiosity and disorganization that his former colleagues in Congress remember all too well.
At one time or another, all three of these also-rans - as well as Herman Cain, lest we forget - seemed well-positioned to win the caucuses. In ultimately rejecting their candidacies, Iowans rejected a cascade of gimmicky tax plans, flagrant pandering (Gingrich's denunciation of "big city attacks" on ethanol subsidies took the cake), and desperate appeals to identity politics. And they rejected, as well, the attempt to dress up in the mantle of True Conservatism(TM) records that were either threadbare or checkered by cronyism and corruption.
It's not that Romney, Santorum and Paul ran campaigns free of gimmicks or pandering or that they boast records untainted by crankery or folly. But both Santorum and Paul at least had a message that set them apart from the rest of the field. 
For all the talk about how Santorum's social conservatism was ill-suited to a campaign focused on the economy, the former Pennsylvania senator's emphasis on social mobility, family breakdown and blue-collar struggles spoke more directly to the challenges facing working Americans than any 9-9-9 fantasy or flat-tax gambit. From the opposite wing of the party, Paul's libertarian and anti-war campaign scrambled partisan categories in useful and unexpected ways and supplied an alternative to the ritual chest-thumping that sometimes passes for Republican foreign policy debate.
Meanwhile, Romney's cautious, calculating campaign managed to simultaneously stake out a plausible domestic agenda while ruthlessly exploiting the weaknesses first of Perry and then of Gingrich. Romney took few risks and inspired almost nobody, but his mix of substance and savvy largely confirmed the impression that he would be both the field's most effective general election candidate and its most plausible president.
In an ideal world, Romney's coronation would be postponed long enough to have a vigorous argument between Romney, Paul and Santorum (with Jon Huntsman getting in on the action as well, perhaps). They would debate foreign policy, domestic policy and the future of conservatism, with the also-rans and their gimmicks cleared off stage.
In the real world, some of the also-rans will hang around, and last night's results probably just set the stage for the swift Romney victory that's been coming all along. 
But give the people of Iowa credit: They did the best they could.

        
Ron Paul Rising
        
Let's Not Talk About Inequality
        
Romney's Three Paths to Victory
        
A Look at the Numbers
        
Ron Paul's World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ALCOHOLS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CORRUPTION (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (56%) Mitt Romney; presidential election of 2012; Republican primary campaign; Rick Santorum; Ron Paul; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Iowa

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RICK PERRY (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); HERMAN CAIN (76%); JIMMY CARTER (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



162 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Defying Republicans, Obama to Name Cordray as Consumer Agency Chief

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER and JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama will challenge Senate Republican foes of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by naming Richard Cordray as its director while Congress is out of town, according to a senior administration official. 

 BODY:
11:49 a.m. | Updated President Obama will challenge Republican foes of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by naming Richard Cordray as its director while Congress is out of town.
That would allow the agency to establish new regulations over financial institutions, putting into effect elements of the financial regulatory overhaul that was one of the administration's main achievements in Congress.
Mr. Obama's exercise of constitutional powers to name top officials without Senate confirmation while Congress is in recess is a stiff challenge to Republicans, who have attempted to block the maneuver by holding "pro forma" sessions over the holidays.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, objected strenuously, saying Mr. Obama was overstepping the bounds of his executive power and leaving the agency open to legal challenges.
"Although the Senate is not in recess, President Obama, in an unprecedented move, has arrogantly circumvented the American people," he said in a statement.
Mr. Cordray accompanied the president on Wednesday on a trip to Ohio, where the president is expected to deliver remarks on the economy at a high school in the Cleveland suburb of Shaker Heights. Cleveland is Mr. Cordray's hometown.
Mr. Cordray looked a little shell-shocked when he got off Marine One to board Air Force One for the flight to Cleveland, clutching his brown folder to his chest as he walked to the plane.
But he sounded ready for battle once the plane landed in Cleveland and reporters cornered him under the wing, and issued a not-so-veiled warning to Wall Street.
"We're going to begin working to expand our program to non-banks, which is an area we haven't been able to touch before now," he said.
The recess appointment represents a sharp departure from a long-standing precedent that has limited the president to recess appointments only when the Senate is in a recess of 10 days or longer. Breaking from this precedent lands this appointee in uncertain legal territory, threatens the confirmation process and fundamentally endangers the Congress's role in providing a check on the excesses of the executive branch.
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, called the recess appointment a "no-brainer," and said that Mr. Obama would not be waiting around for Congress to act this year.
"He nominated Richard Cordray six months ago," Mr. Carney said. "He won a majority of support in the Senate, yet Republicans refused to allow an up or down vote. This is a shame."
He declined to speak about the legal and constitutional challenge which may be ahead, but said White House lawyers were confident. "When pro forma sessions are simply used as an attempt to stop the president from making an appointment," then Mr. Obama was within his rights to move ahead.
President Bush, by this point in his tenure, Mr. Carney noted, had made 61 recess appointments, compared to Mr. Obama's 28.
Senator Tim Johnson, a Democrat of South Dakota who is chairman of the Banking Committee, praised Mr. Cordray's appointment.
"Mr. Cordray is eminently qualified for the job, as even my Senate Republican colleagues have acknowledged," he said. "It's disappointing that Senate Republicans denied him an up-or-down vote, especially when it's clear he had the support of a majority of the Senate."
The move came hours after the conclusion of the Iowa caucuses, and was sure to turn attention away from the Republican Party and back to the president. 
In December, Mr. Cordray's nomination was rejected after Democrats failed to achieve the 60 votes they needed to move his nomination forward.
The power struggle between the financial sector and its check-cashing, card-carrying customers has developed into one of the fault lines along which the political parties are playing out their own rivalries as the election year arrives.
Mr. Cordray is a former attorney general of Ohio noted for his aggressive investigations of mortgage foreclosure practices. Currently in charge of enforcement at the consumer agency, he was nominated in July to lead it.
Previous opposition from Republicans led to the withdrawal of Elizabeth Warren from consideration for the post. She is a Harvard law professor who was the driving force behind the agency's creation and is now a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate in Massachusetts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%) cordray; recess appointments; Cordray, Richard; Obama, Barack; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Senate; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Senate

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Cordray, Richard; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



163 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Apocalypse Iowa

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS AND GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: The scene at the caucuses brings to mind a scene from a movie. 

 BODY:
David Brooks:
 Gail, anybody can be a pundit when there's some decisive thing to talk about, but when you've got a tie, that's when we separate the pros from the amateurs. If a tie in a football or a baseball game is like kissing your sister, then a tie in an Iowa caucus would be like kissing Rick Santorum's sister.
Gail Collins: David, you must be exhausted. Did you wait up all night for the critical deciding votes from a precinct in Clinton County to come in? This is yet another reason to ignore the Iowa caucuses. The entire vote may be smaller than the population of Pomona, Calif. But the population of Clinton County is smaller than my sister's block in San Diego.
David: I am exhausted. I can't tell you how many reporters drank me under the table at the Marriott bar. Being part of the media elite stinks. But let's start with the guy who won it, nominally, Mitt Romney. My own view is that this result weakens him and makes it more likely that he gets the nomination. It makes him more likely because the candidates who might have gone the distance with him are in trouble or cracking up - Rick Perry and Newt Gingrich. 
Gail: I am totally fascinated by the way Newt is cracking up. All I can think of is that guy in "Apocalypse Now," climbing out of the swamp with a knife in his mouth.
David: But it weakens Romney because it shows that no matter how much he spends per vote, he can't break out of his educated suburban corporate Republican base. His motto should be, "We are the 25 percent!"
Gail: Fascinating how far the Republican base will go to avoid him. Rick Santorum. Wow.
David: The question is, Is Romney's weakness good weakness or bad weakness? If it's policy weakness, that's good weakness. Then he's just too moderate for the Republican Party and it is his very moderation that will help him in the general election.
If it's bad weakness, it's personality weakness. People just don't warm to him. As Jonathan V. Last pointed out in The Weekly Standard a few weeks ago, the guy has run in 22 campaigns in his life. His record is 5-17. That's not stellar.
Gail: Yes, if only he'd done better he could have managed to become the professional politician he always yearned to be. As Newt used to point out before he went gaga.
David: Now let's go on to the others. People tend to dismiss Santorum and Paul as one-trick ponies who of course can never win the nomination. Santorum is a dour social conservative. Paul is the candidate of Gold Bugs, dope legalizers, Truthers and college students who feel a kinship with grumpy old men (which turns out to be a surprisingly large block).
Gail: Maybe there's a large segment of the youth vote who always yearned to have a grandfather who stomped around yelling about the Fed but could also bond with the younger generation over the unfairness of the war on drugs and the war in Iraq. As opposed to their real grandfathers, who are playing golf in Boca Raton.
David: One thing I learned out here is how sour and grumpy the Republican electorate is. These people want something drastic. If Santorum can expand his message from the social issues to the populist economic issues, then he could go places. He certainly understands this. His organizational gaps could be filled in by the churches. Romney can't really challenge him on his most glaring weakness - his brand of conservatism. In a Republican primary campaign, he can't attack Santorum for being too conservative.
Gail: Personally, I'd be really glad to have a national conversation about whether to outlaw most forms of birth control. For once the kids and their grandparents would find themselves on the same side.
David: As for Paul, we're supposed to admire anybody who can mobilize the young, but I have to confess I found his rallies deeply off-putting. It's not that I mind watching hundreds of young people screaming their heads off about central bank policies. It's the tone of loopy anger that seems to envelop them.
At one point in Iowa I saw some Paulites in a screaming match with Tucker Carlson because he doesn't believe 9/11 was an inside job. Carlson, one of the bravest guys around, stood right up to them, even as they stuck cameras in his face and told him that a jet can't possibly topple a building on its own.
Gail: And even if you don't believe Ron Paul is racist or anti-Semitic, he has a really disturbing indifference to the opinions of people who hang around and write for his newsletters.
David: Paul himself isn't that bad, of course, but he did consort with the John Birch Society and there's an odd lack of rapport with the people around him. He could be in a closet alone or in front of 1,000 people and he'd say the same things in the same tone.
Gail: I'm loving the vision of Ron Paul's Closet Speech.
David: At the caucus I attended, his son Rand Paul attacked Santorum in ruthless personal terms. Paul blasted Santorum for allegedly channeling federal funding to people who are "anti-God!" He claimed that Santorum's religious piety was evident when he was campaigning, but wasn't evident in Washington. He accused Santorum of supporting foreign aid! It was an off-putting performance, to put it mildly.
Gail: On Tuesday night while Paul was doing his cheerful old coot act after he came in third, Rand was standing behind him looking as if he wanted to take a blowtorch to the ballroom. Maybe he's still sulking about how the environmentalists broke his toilet.
David: As for Gingrich, he is delightfully consistent in his inconstancy. The guy can't help himself. He doesn't fly off the handle, he lives out there. He's just like Lincoln in that respect. Or Churchill. Or Moses. I forget which one.
Gail: No, it's "Apocalypse Now." Robert Duvall. Or Martin Sheen. Or Marlon Brando. Or all three rolled into one.

        
The Year in Review - And Next Year in Preview
        
With Candidates Like This ...
        
The Not-Romneys
        
A President's Religion
        
And the G.O.P. Candidates Are ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BASEBALL (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%) Iowa; Iowa caucuses; mitt romney; newt gingrich; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican primary campaign; Rick Santorum; ron paul; Carlson, Tucker; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Rand; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; John Birch Society; Republican Party; Weekly Standard; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY (84%) John Birch Society; Republican Party; Weekly Standard

PERSON: RICK PERRY (91%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RON PAUL (79%) Carlson, Tucker; Gingrich, Newt; Paul, Rand; Paul, Ron; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012



164 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: The Iowa-Is-So-Important Phase Ends, the Iowa-Is-So-Over Phase Begins

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum is the Mike Huckabee of 2012. 

 BODY:
DES MOINES-In 2008, the very conservative Evangelical Christians in Iowa muddled the Republican presidential nominating contest, giving their support to an unelectable candidate, Mike Huckabee, who won here over the person that Republicans were most likely to settle for in the end, John McCain. That meant the G.O.P. had to spend millions more dollars, run more nasty ads, and toss around more radical right-wing ideas before turning their attention to the general election.
This year, the very conservative Evangelical Christians in Iowa muddled the Republican presidential nominating contest, giving their support to an unelectable candidate, Rick Santorum, who fought to a draw with the person Republicans seem most likely to settle for in the end, Mitt Romney. That means the G.O.P. will have to spend millions of more dollars, run more nasty ads and toss around more radical right-wing ideas before turning their attention to the general election.
The process, in 2008, meant that a politician who had once been essentially a moderate, Mr. McCain, had to transform himself into a right winger and the party went into the general far out of the nation's true ideological mainstream.

Mr. Romney is also trying to undergo that transformation, but like Mr. McCain's metamorphosis, it's pretty damaging and so far not convincing for conservatives. Mr. Romney "won" the Iowa caucuses (actually there was nothing to win here, only a non-binding preference vote) by 8 of the approximately 122,000 (yes that's right, 122,000) votes cast. About $4 million was spent on his behalf in Iowa. You do the math.
Of the 47 percent of voters who said in entrance polls that they were very conservative, only 14 percent said they supported Mr. Romney, while 35 percent supported Mr. Santorum, the former Pennsylvania Senator who thinks we can rescue Social Security by outlawing abortion. More of the 64 percent of voters who said they were Tea Party supporters went for Mr. Santorum than Mr. Romney, and Rep. Ron Paul of Texas got as much of their support as Mr. Romney did. The Iowa caucus goers did not identify Mr. Romney as a "true conservative".
Mr. Paul came in third, with 26,000 or so votes, which was bad news for Newt Gingrich, who only got about 16,000 after his brief period as the front-runner. A lot of negative ads, and a lot of negative character traits, torpedoed his chances.
This means that the contest will go to New Hampshire unsettled. (Rick Perry's decision to go home to Texas to "reassess" his candidacy will have no impact on the race. The same goes for Michele Bachmann's decision to suspend her campaign, which means she can go on raising money without actually running.) I expect Mr. Gingrich will stay in, if only because vanity has been driving his bid for the presidency all along. The 2012 campaign will probably mean he can command even higher fees as a lobbyist and speechifier than before.
New Hampshire's primary fight is likely to focus more on the economy than the campaign in Iowa, where the unemployment rate is less than half the national rate. But the candidates will also campaign in South Carolina, which has a strain of social intolerance like the one in Iowa. That's where George W. Bush destroyed John McCain in 2000 with a whisper campaign that he had a black child. Creepy, but that's how G.O.P. politics work in the presidential season, or really in any season.
A lot is going to be said about the ideological divide in the Republican Party. Don't make too much of that. The party is divided about which deeply unsatisfying candidate it is going to pick, but there is no doubt about its ideology. It is pinned against the right-wing wall of American politics.

        
And the Official Winner in Iowa Is ... Who Cares?
        
View of the World From New Hampshire and Iowa
        
Race and Politics, Revisited
        
The Pander Waves of Grain
        
Opinion Report: Obama Confronts Republican Obstructionists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); RELIGION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); ABORTION (50%) iowa caucuses; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Iowa

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (88%); RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RON PAUL (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012



165 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Boeing to Shut Wichita Plant, Citing Cuts at Pentagon

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
With the Pentagon pushing to cut costs, Boeing said on Wednesday that it would close its sprawling military airplane plant in Wichita, Kan., over the next two years and lay off many of the 2,160 workers.
Boeing said it would shift as many as 1,400 of the jobs to San Antonio, Oklahoma City or the Seattle area, by either transferring workers from Wichita or hiring others. It said it would eliminate the rest of the jobs.
The layoffs, to start in the third quarter of this year, represent the latest of several job cuts and plant closings by military contractors. On Thursday, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta is expected to discuss how the Pentagon plans to adjust its war strategies and weapons programs to save at least $450 billion over the next 10 years. 
The job cuts could also prompt a political furor in some states, particularly in a presidential election year. Politicians in Kansas expressed anger Wednesday about Boeing's move, calling it a betrayal of promises the company made last year when they helped it win a $35 billion Air Force contract for aerial refueling tankers.
Boeing said then that it would finish assembling the giant refueling planes in Wichita, creating several hundred jobs.
Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, said on Wednesday that he was ''outraged'' that Boeing was moving that work to Washington State.
''It is hard to believe that conditions would have changed so rapidly over the past few months to bring about the decision to not only move the tanker finishing work elsewhere, but to also close down the entire facility,'' he said. ''The fact that Boeing is now refusing to honor its commitment to the people of Kansas is greatly troubling to me and to thousands of Kansans who trusted that Boeing's promise would be kept.''
Mark Bass, a vice president for a division in Boeing's military business, told reporters on Wednesday that the plant, which Boeing has run for 80 years, was too large and inefficient to be competitive as the Pentagon cut costs.
He said other contracts for modifying and maintaining military aircraft were winding down, and a Boeing study concluded in November that the plant's business ''would continue to erode.''
He said the plant had 97 buildings and stretched across two million square feet, but it must compete for maintenance work with smaller companies operating out of two aircraft hangars.
Boeing maintains the president's planes, known as Air Force One, at the Wichita plant. Company officials said some of the modification contracts, for airborne command and logistics-support planes, were ending, and plans for updating B-52 bombers had not materialized as expected.
Mr. Bass said labor costs at the plant were higher than at rival sites.
Boeing will move the engineering and project management work to its plant in Oklahoma City, adding 800 jobs there, he said. The modification and maintenance work will shift to San Antonio, adding 300 to 400 jobs there. And 200 jobs related to the tanker project will be moved to Washington, he said.
Boeing's decision was a major setback for Wichita, which has long been an aviation center. Boeing spun off work on its commercial planes there in 2005, and the new company, Spirit AeroSystems, supplies sections for Boeing jets. Other plane makers, like Cessna and Hawker Beechcraft, are based in Wichita.
Boeing has laid off workers in other states over the last several years. The total work force in its military business has dropped to 63,000 from 71,000 at the start of 2009. Other military contractors have cut thousands of workers through buyouts and layoffs.
Boeing officials said they could not specify Wednesday how many of the cuts had been made in response to cancellations or delays in weapons programs. They said some of the employees had been transferred to the company's commercial-plane business, which has rebounded from the recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers at Boeing's Wichita, Kan., plant left a meeting Wednesday where the company announced it would close the operation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS HEYING/THE WICHITA EAGLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (58%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (58%); JERRY MORAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (97%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) KANSAS, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



166 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Relax. There's Plenty of Room.

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
TEXANS aren't known for understatement, so when Mark Williamson starts describing his couch (''We call it 'Texas depth' ''), it's a good bet he's not talking about a love seat.
And the couch in his suburban Dallas home, made by a local company called the Luxury of Leather and very similar to one he saw at Restoration Hardware, is indeed big: 100 inches long by 46 inches deep by 36 inches high. When relatives visited from South Carolina last year, everyone jumped onto the couch for a family photo. Seven people and a dog fit comfortably.
The first time he sat in the Restoration Hardware version, Mr. Williamson said, his feet didn't even touch the floor. ''It seemed like a couch for a basketball player or something,'' he said. But Mr. Williamson, who is 5-foot-10 and owns a company that organizes career fairs, has since adjusted to LeBron James-size seating.
''This couch is a beast,'' he wrote on a house and garden message board, with obvious pride. ''In fact it is so big it's almost like having a whole cow in your living room.'' 
Furniture has been bulking up for several years now, partly to match the scale of all the cavernous ''great rooms'' that became must-haves in new homes (and perhaps also to match expanding waistlines). But big furniture seems to have reached a critical mass of comical massiveness. One tipoff that the scale of a couch might be a bit out of whack? When you start comparing it to a large farm animal.
Home stores these days, especially mass-market retailers, are filled with enormous furniture: coffee tables big enough to land an airplane on and ''luxe depth'' sofas with sink-in cushions that could easily double as guest beds. Even high-end European brands like Poltrona Frau and Ligne Roset are selling bulky Chesterfield sofas and sectionals that seem to stretch into infinity.
These pieces dwarf the furniture of an earlier era, or even the more modest designs elsewhere in furniture stores today. At Raymour & Flanigan, the East Coast furniture chain, a chair from the Briarwood collection by HM Richards is equal in width to Le Corbusier's LC2 love seat, designed in the late '20s and sold by Design Within Reach. (The ''chair and a half'' version is nearly as big as the LC2 couch.) With its stout profile and rolled arms, the Briarwood chair is a throne for the King of Sunday Afternoon.
''I was just shocked,'' said Thomas Hine, the culture and design writer, recalling his visits to furniture stores in suburban Philadelphia a few years ago as he searched for a chair. ''I was appalled by how incredibly large furniture had gotten. I had no idea.''
Richard Wright, who runs the Chicago-based auction house Wright, which specializes in slimmer midcentury furniture, is also puzzled by the scale of today's furniture. ''It's very odd to me,'' he said. ''Sofas are ponderously deep now, as are chairs. I find deep seating very uncomfortable. You feel like a little kid.''
One of the most prominent retailers of supersize furnishings is Restoration Hardware, the California-based chain whose leather steamer trunks and machine-age desks suggest that the Indiana Jones estate is being liquidated. In its fall catalog, the company says its most recent line was partly inspired by the baronial spaces of 18th-century France.
Consider the Versailles chair, with its winged sides and cocoon-ish overhang that reaches a full five feet in height. The design is intended to ''fend off drafts in the grand chateaux of France,'' the catalog explains. Unless you actually own a drafty chateau, though, you're just as likely to feel like that old Lily Tomlin character Edith Ann when you sit in it.
''The strange thing is, you would likely need to live out in the suburbs to have the space for that furniture, but it seems the aesthetic is fairly urban,'' said Claire Zulkey, who has thought a lot about Restoration's Old-World-Europe-meets-steampunk look.
Last summer, Ms. Zulkey, a writer who lives in Chicago, carried the Restoration catalog with her on a road trip and began musing on what the furniture might suggest about a mythical population living inside the store. On her blog, she theorized that ''the people who live at Restoration Hardware are either very big, and thus enjoy furniture and accessories proportionate to their largeness, or they're petite, and enjoy feeling dwarfed by their home decor.''
The company declined to comment for this article, other than to say that it offers furniture in various scales and sizes.
Annie Elliott, an interior designer in Washington, said she battles against giant furniture and generally advises clients not to buy it. ''It doesn't look right, it's sloppy and probably too big for whatever room they're putting it in,'' Ms. Elliott said.
She recalled one client who insisted on buying the Dr. Pitt sectional sofa by Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams. ''It's U-shaped, but they sell ottomans that are the same seat height as the couch, so you can push it in and make a raft,'' Ms. Elliott said. The sectional was to go into a dining area that the client was converting to a family room.
''They pay me to save them from themselves,'' Ms. Elliott said. ''I suggested something more in scale so you could have a reading chair and maybe a place to put your drink.''
But the client insisted, and the sofa took up so much space that nothing else fit in the room. ''There wasn't room for a floor lamp,'' Ms. Elliott said. ''We mounted lights on the walls.''
When Mr. Williamson put his bovine couch in his family room, it instantly dwarfed the other pieces. He set out on a quest to find a table scaled to match the couch, he said, and eventually bought ''a behemoth of a coffee table that weighs 300 pounds.'' The appeal of both the coffee table and the couch is that they are childproof and seemingly indestructible.
He added: ''I can stand on top of the coffee table, and it won't even think about budging or breaking. And I stand on it quite often. Neighbors come over and I'm always showing them, 'Look, I can stand on this coffee table.' ''
In some cases -- particularly in New York, where doorways and elevators are narrow -- big pieces bump up against simple laws of physics. Max Bar-Nahum, the director of sales and marketing at Dr. Sofa, a Bronx-based company that specializes in the disassembly and reassembly of furniture, said he gets several calls a day from people who buy a couch or chair and discover it's too big to deliver. The steel-frame couches made by B&B Italia and other modern designers bring him a lot of business. ''You have no idea how big these sofas are,'' Mr. Bar-Nahum said.
Granted, it can be hard to gauge the size of furniture in a store, where the ceilings are often high and the showrooms loft-like.
But retailers show no sign of dropping the biggest pieces from their lines, even at a time when many Americans are downsizing in response to the housing crash and recession. The median size of a new home, as of the third quarter of 2011, was 2,244 square feet, down from 2,308 square feet in 2006, said David Crowe, chief economist for the National Association of Homebuilders. He added that the square footage should level off at about 2,200 -- a trend line that hardly screams Texas depth.
''The underlying reason is that people like it and they buy it,'' said Russell Bienenstock, editor in chief of Furniture World, a trade magazine, explaining the prevalence of oversize furniture. ''You have to assume retailers are re-ordering what is selling well.''
Michelle Enders, a senior buyer for Raymour & Flanigan, said the company carries a range of styles and sizes, but sales of sectionals, in particular, have been booming in the last two years. ''They make a lot of sense,'' Ms. Enders said. ''They maximize your seating area, and in the larger great rooms, they help to break the room up.''
Especially in McMansions, which still populate the suburbs like domestic mastodons.
''Look at the home inventory,'' said Bill Quirk, the president of HM Richards, the company that makes the Briarwood chair and its supersize chair-and-a-half sibling. ''People still need to furnish the big homes that were built. It's not like all of a sudden furniture will change.''
Mr. Quirk discovered firsthand how his company's seating looks inside a smaller home. ''I rented a place down in Naples, Fla., that had one of our chaises in it, and it took up the whole den,'' he said. ''I thought, 'This thing is wildly out of proportion for this beach house.' ''
Still, he observed, in a more-spacious home, a big chair takes the place of a formal love seat and fits better with the casual way that people live. And wall-mounted flat-screen TVs have eliminated media centers, creating more space for seating. For homeowners with what The New Yorker writer Tad Friend once called ''relaxed fit'' tastes, overlarge, cushiony seating is equated with comfort.
''People want the furniture to be more comfy,'' Ms. Enders said. ''The more contemporary furniture, which has lower seating with firmer backs -- I don't understand how the Europeans use that furniture.''
Ms. Elliott, the Washington interior designer, said she heard the same comfort-is-king refrain from the client who bought the Dr. Pitt sectional. ''She really wanted to create a space where you could let it all hang out -- where you could run from the kitchen and do a swan dive.''
To Mr. Hine, the culture and design writer, however, what appears to be a desire for comfort is really ''ostentatious indulgence.'' Referring to all those sprawling sofas and chairs, he said: ''They look like they have to be the most comfortable thing ever. But then there's an element of 'I want to impress everyone with how comfortable I am.' ''
Mr. Bienenstock, the Furniture World editor, offered another, more primal reason for the appeal of huge furniture -- one drawn from the theory of supernormal stimuli. Brooding birds, presented with the choice between a smaller egg or a larger one, have been observed to choose the larger, even if it was artificial. In other words, even birds think bigger is better.
''Maybe the same thing is going on with upholstery,'' Mr. Bienenstock said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EDITH ANN OR ALICE? Today's chair is yesterday's love seat. Above, a Bernhardt chair-and-a-half at Raymour & Flanigan
the LC2, below, designed by Le Corbusier in the late '20s, is sold by Design Within Reach.(D1)
SPACE FOR MORE: From left, Zachary, Mark, Zeta and Julie Williamson on the big sofa in their Allen, Tex., living room. Mr. Williamson likens its size to that of ''a whole cow.''
 BIG PERCH: The Molly chair from Raymour & Flanigan is almost four feet wide. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK VELTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE STORES (89%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAILERS (68%); BASKETBALL (68%); ANIMALS (67%); WRITERS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (63%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (53%)

COMPANY: POLTRONA FRAU SPA (55%)

TICKER: PFG (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337127 INSTITUTIONAL FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS337125 HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD & METAL) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (55%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (89%) TEXAS, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



167 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Seeking New York's 'Other' Opera Company

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

 BODY:
By now enough people have gotten on enough soapboxes about New York City Opera's sorry financial state. But while the company remains in limbo, its precarious situation should be a reminder to look at the bigger picture.
Institutions come and go; what is important is the preservation of core values. So what do we want from opera in New York?
A variety of repertory, including a healthy diet of new works. Stimulating interpretations of the standards. Affordability. A range in the scale of performances, from grand to modest. Opportunities for young artists.
Aided by brilliant marketing, the Metropolitan Opera has in recent years pivoted to seem younger and fresher, concerned with theatricality and its connection to the broader cultural landscape. But with 3,800 seats it cannot provide intimacy, and its much-touted new productions of classic works have largely been old wine in new bottles. For reasons of size and temperament it doesn't really do new opera. 
There is ample room for an ''other'' company. In the 20th century the Met had nimble, progressive foils: Oscar Hammerstein's Manhattan Opera, briefly, and then City Opera, which was founded in 1943 with a populist mandate and commitments to adventurous programming and cohesive dramatic values.
With City Opera's decline it has fallen to a range of even smaller companies to provide variety and intimacy. Dicapo Opera has presented recent American works with consistent distinction; Tchaikovsky's ''Iolanta,'' which it performed in December, has a planned Met debut in a few seasons. Amore Opera (an outgrowth of the Amato Opera) is lovably scrappy, and it scored a coup this fall with the American premiere of Mercadante's 1835 gem, ''I Due Figaro.''
Opera Omnia does creative, tiny productions of Baroque repertory. The Opera Orchestra of New York offers concert versions of more esoteric grand operas and the spectacle of star singers stretching their comfort zones.
Perhaps most intriguing and promising is the Gotham Chamber Opera. Over the past decade, with ample praise but without much fanfare, Gotham has earned a reputation for being dependably creative and musically keen. Its production last year of Haydn's ''Mondo Della Luna,'' ingeniously set amid star projections in the Hayden Planetarium, was one of the delights of recent seasons. Gotham's founder and artistic director, Neal Goren, has a gift for spotting talented young singers, and its executive director, David Bennett, seems intent on ensuring financial stability.
The company opened in 2001 with the American stage premiere of Mozart's ''Sogno di Scipione.'' (Christopher Alden's production will be revived in April to celebrate the company's 10th anniversary.) Though it has since concentrated on overlooked corners of the Classical and modern periods, this season Gotham boldly moved into new American opera, presenting the premiere of a work by the composer Nico Muhly, commissioned with the Opera Company of Philadelphia and Music-Theater Group.
With a donor base that shares several significant names with City Opera, including Mary Sharp Cronson, Brooke Hayward Duchin and the former City Opera board chairwoman Susan L. Baker, Gotham stands to benefit from any drop in support for the larger company. Mr. Goren, for his part, insists that more opera is better for everyone, and that City Opera's situation has not affected his plans.
''We're not doing anything differently,'' he said in a recent interview. ''We're in expansion mode, but we've been continuously in expansion mode. We're not changing our mission at all. We do works that go in intimate spaces.''
This season Gotham was prudent, with a two-production season consisting of Mr. Muhly's ''Dark Sisters'' and the ''Scipione'' revival, since it is new to the challenges of commissioned opera. But in April the company is planning to announce a 2012-13 season that is its largest yet, with four productions: three during the regular season and one in the summer of 2013. That is conspicuously the same number that City Opera is doing in its abbreviated season this spring.
The missing piece is a sustained commitment to new opera, which Mr. Goren admitted is a tough sell. He is hoping to present another commission in five years, he said, but nothing is planned before that.
In the meantime the production of new works in the city still falls mostly to ad hoc arrangements between presenters and independent producers, like the tireless Beth Morrison and her Beth Morrison Projects. City Opera hopes to bring back its valuable Vox festival of contemporary opera, which allows for a hearing of full-orchestra excerpts from works in progress but is, like so much else, up in the air.
On Wednesday Ms. Morrison, in collaboration with the Here Arts Center in the South Village, announced a new festival featuring music-theater premieres, but in completed, ready-to-tour productions rather than Vox's more workshop style. In an interview Ms. Morrison said that there have been moves toward organizing the city's small opera companies.
''There is a recognition among the small companies that there are significant challenges to doing this opera work, and there might be some benefit to an overarching organization,'' she said. ''There are discussions happening about how to better allocate our resources as small companies doing opera.''
A unifying structure could be helpful in focusing marketing strategies and organizing repertory choices. The question is whether any single group -- Gotham seems the most plausible -- will emerge from the pack as New York's ''other'' company in this diverse but uncertain landscape. Mr. Goren said that four productions a season are the most he feels the company can handle while maintaining quality. (It doesn't help that Gotham has no permanent home, though it plans a regular arrangement with the 600-seat Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College, where City Opera will perform Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' this spring.)
But with 10 years of inspired work under its belt Gotham could be on the cusp of great possibilities if the money were there for more, or if Mr. Goren were willing to consider engaging guest conductors. At the very least, given the number of chamber works being written today, the company should be doing a new opera every season or two. Which of its forward-thinking donors will step up to pay for it?
Then again, things may have shifted economically and aesthetically in such a way that New York, cultural capital though it claims to be, will no longer be home to two major opera companies.
''It's not for me to say,'' Mr. Goren said. ''The market is going to determine that. Berlin has that. London has that. Can New York support it? I certainly hope so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: City Opera's woes give smaller companies an opening. Above, Gotham Chamber Opera's ''Mondo Della Luna'' at the Hayden Planetarium in 2010
below, Amore Opera's ''Due Figaro'' last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH LEVITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 Gotham Chamber Opera's ''Dark Sisters,'' at John Jay College in November. Gotham has a reputation for being dependably creative and musically keen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



168 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: A Newcomer Is Showing Her Comfort Among Stars

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
The second act of ''Stick Fly,'' Lydia R. Diamond's meaty soap opera about an affluent black family, begins with its youngest character, 18-year-old Cheryl, the daughter of the family's maid, on the phone in the family's well-appointed kitchen. She's getting bad news from her mother. Life-changing bad news.
In a play where there is almost always a crowd of people onstage who are at cross purposes about race, class or gender, it's a rare moment of privacy. And for Condola Rashad, the actress who plays Cheryl and is making her Broadway debut in ''Stick Fly,'' it's the toughest scene in the show.
''No one's on the phone,'' Ms. Rashad explained during a recent lunchtime interview. ''I'm literally out there hurting my own feelings.'' 
She paused, then elaborated:
''You know how there's always the one girl in drama school who can cry at the drop of a hat? She has that emotional well she can tap into in a second? I'm not that girl. It takes a lot to get me to that place.
''The way I work emotionally is: I don't ever try to cry. I try not to, which is what for me produces organic emotion. But the director wanted something specific, he wanted it to be that emotional, so it's a matter of me making up dialogue.
''During the entire intermission I have to be on the phone in my head. For, like, 20 minutes I'm hurting my own feelings.''
At 25, Ms. Rashad, who graduated from the California Institute of the Arts in 2008, seems poised between drama school and stardom. She's young enough that college is still her most formidable point of reference. She likes to begin sentences with ''My thing is...,'' peppers conversation with ''totally'' and ''awesome,'' and speaks about herself as an actress with an earnest delight in self-discovery.
But now, in her second major stage role -- just out of school she played a rape victim in ''Ruined,'' Lynn Nottage's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama set in the Congolese civil war -- she is getting used to being recognized for gifts that go beyond the scope of her limited experience or her famous family name -- she's the daughter of Phylicia and Ahmad Rashad.
Among a ''Stick Fly'' cast that includes TV stars (Dule Hill,Mekhi Phifer) and Broadway veterans (Ruben Santiago-Hudson, Tracie Thoms), ''the discovery of the evening is the quietly captivating Ms. Rashad,'' Charles Isherwood wrote in The New York Times. ''Even when she is hovering at the edges of the drama, passing in and out of the kitchen or refilling wineglasses in the living room, Ms. Rashad's Cheryl is a powerful presence, sensitive to every hint of condescension directed her way.''
Kenny Leon, the director of ''Stick Fly,'' cast Ms. Rashad after she came to audition for a role opposite Samuel L. Jackson in another new Broadway play, ''The Mountaintop.'' That part was eventually given to Angela Bassett, an actress almost three decades older.
''Condola was too young to play the part in 'Mountaintop,' but she had a maturity that made me think she can do older and sexy,'' Mr. Leon said. ''Most actresses, they can do blue, red, green and that's it, they do what they do. But if I say to Condola, 'Do blue,' she says, 'What shade of blue do you want?' ''
Kate Whoriskey, the director of ''Ruined,'' added in an e-mail:
''I think she is one of America's great talents. When Condola came in to audition, she had a preternatural understanding of acting. Many actors transitioning from training to the professional world fall into two traps. They try to show all of the skills they learned at school in a 10-minute audition, or they play at being young rather than acknowledge that they bring their age into the room with them. What struck me about Condola's audition was her economy of choices and her stillness.''
She is tall, coltish and strikingly pretty with huge doe eyes; her looks betray her celebrity pedigree. Her father is the broadcaster and former All-Pro wide receiver. Her mother won a 2004 Tony Award for her role as the family matron in the revival of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' and, more famously, played Clair Huxtable, the mother in the groundbreaking hit ''The Cosby Show.''
In separate interviews both parents (who divorced when Condola was a teenager) said that they didn't have to warn their daughter about the trappings of fame because they didn't bring their celebrity home with them.
''She knows it's the work that matters,'' Phylicia Rashad said. ''If not for the work, no one would be a celebrity, except for the Kardashians.''
The family lived in Mount Vernon, just north of New York City. As a child young Condola studied classical piano, and she still considers music a calling; lately she's been writing songs for piano and guitar.
She went to the Fieldston School, in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, a private academy not unlike the one Cheryl is sent to in ''Stick Fly.'' Unlike her character Ms. Rashad wasn't an outsider in that world -- and didn't feel like one.
''I wasn't Cheryl, though I had friends like her,'' Ms. Rashad said. ''Girls who came from that kind of background, whose mothers might have been a maid -- you could tell that in the streets they could hold their own -- but they were aware of themselves, they knew how to speak correct English.
''So when Cheryl gets mad, definitely the street comes out. But my thing is, like, it's only going to be realistic if I really can be in touch with that other side of her, not to make it so over the top just to make it funny, because then 18-year-olds who come see it are going to go, 'Nope, that's not us.' ''
By all accounts relations between the parents and child are swell. Her father, Ms. Rashad said, ''is my hero,'' someone who has never missed a show in which she has appeared and has already been to ''Stick Fly'' half a dozen times; he once flew from South Africa to Los Angeles to catch her in a student production, she said.
''That's true,'' Mr. Rashad said in a phone interview. ''Though I did have a hard time staying awake at the play.''
Following in her mother's footsteps can be difficult, though Ms. Rashad acknowledged that the family name gives her a leg up; she's known Mr. Leon, who directed her mother twice on Broadway, since she was a little girl.
She can remember going to work with her mother toward the end of the Cosby run. (''She was pregnant with me one season,'' Ms. Rashad said, ''so that was my debut.'') And watching her mother on the set shaped her aspirations early.
Phylicia Rashad recalled that when Condola was 4, she announced, ''I'm going to be on 'The Cosby Show,' and my mother will be my assistant.''
But even before that, ''she sat at the piano one day and began to play,'' Phylicia Rashad said. ''She hadn't had instruction, and it was interesting to see that she touched the keys gingerly. She didn't bang. That showed sensitivity. And she said: 'Mommy, I need a reading teacher, a piano teacher and a dancing teacher. Can you get me those things?' ''
Condola Rashad said she and her mother are very different personalities, and she admitted that she is not above flaunting her idiosyncrasies.
''My mom is revered as this glamorous, regal woman,'' she said. ''She doesn't even mean to be, she's just, um, a queen. Even when you're just talking to her, she has this air about her, and I'm just like a weird, quirky person.''
''We celebrate our differences now, but there are things she had a hard time with,'' Ms. Rashad added. ''I came back from Cal Arts with tattoos'' -- she has a peacock feather on her right wrist and an African-American mermaid along her left side, among others -- ''playing guitar on the rooftop, blasting rock 'n' roll from my room, and she was, like, 'What is happening?' ''
Informed of her daughter's comments, Phylicia Rashad laughed.
''If that's her assessment, that's just lovely,'' she said. ''I'm glad she thinks of her mother as royalty, but the child of royalty is royalty also.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Condola Rashad has made an impression on Broadway in ''Stick Fly.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK VELTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 In ''Stick Fly,'' Condola Rashad, center, shares the stage with the Broadway veterans Ruben Santiago-Hudson and Tracie Thoms, among other stars, and has more than held her own. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); CIVIL WAR (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

TITLE: Stick Fly (Play)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



169 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Prosecutor Investigates Hospital's Management

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
The Brooklyn district attorney's office has been looking into management practices at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center, a money-losing hospital serving mostly poor patients, several hospital trustees said Wednesday.
The investigation, which has been going on for several months, is focused on the relationship between hospital officials and a Caribbean medical school in which the officials had a financial stake, the trustees said.
It has also been looking at whether Rajiv Garg, the hospital's chief executive until he was abruptly replaced early last week, had been improperly reimbursed by the hospital for expenses that included a first-class plane ticket to London and a holiday party that he hosted with his wife at the Lambs Club, a fashionable restaurant in Midtown Manhattan, the trustees said. 
Several trustees said the district attorney's office had subpoenaed records, including payroll documents and contracts, and had invited various hospital officials into the to talk. But it was unclear Wednesday whether any criminal behavior was suspected, or whether officials had broken hospital rules. A spokesman for Charles J. Hynes, the district attorney, declined to comment.
Wyckoff Heights, in Bushwick, is largely dependent on taxpayer money -- government payments from Medicare and Medicaid -- to keep it afloat. It is on the brink of financial collapse, and in November a state task force said it should be merged with two other troubled Brooklyn hospitals.
The hospital's board of trustees named Ramon J. Rodriguez, a member of a state task force on Brooklyn hospitals, as an interim replacement for Mr. Garg. The trustees said Mr. Rodriguez moved swiftly to demand the resignations of several people closely associated with Mr. Garg, including Dr. A. C. Rao, the chief of surgery, and Julius Romero, associate vice president for medical education.
The district attorney, one trustee said, was looking into whether Dr. Rao and another doctor had received payments from the Caribbean medical school, Spartan Health Sciences University in St. Lucia, based on the number of Spartan students that the hospital agreed to train during their crucial third year of medical school, a hands-on experience called a clinical clerkship.
Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the State Education Department, said Spartan had not been approved by the department's Office of Professions, and as a result could place students in New York hospitals for no longer than 12 weeks. Mr. Dunn said Spartan had applied for approval in 2007, and at that time, according to state records, Mr. Garg and Dr. Rao had financial interests in the school. It was unclear whether they still do.
Jonathan Marks, a criminal defense lawyer representing Mr. Garg, denied any wrongdoing on his client's part, and said Mr. Garg had fully disclosed his financial interest in Spartan to the trustees. Mr. Marks said he did not know anything about reimbursed expenses, like a holiday party or a trip to London.
A woman who answered the phone at Mr. Garg's home on Wednesday and identified herself as his wife said he was out of the country and could not be reached for comment. Dr. Rao's wife said he was working late, and also could not be reached.
Several trustees spoke about the investigation on condition of anonymity, saying they were not authorized to comment. But one trustee, Vincent Arcuri Jr., a retired construction executive, said that the trustees had not been fully briefed on the investigation, and that the lack of information ''has been destroying us.''
Mr. Arcuri said that he had not attended the party at the Lambs Club, but that some doctors at the hospital had complained about it. He said the expense, estimated by another trustee at $14,000, was too small to have come to the attention of the full board.
Mr. Arcuri said Mr. Garg had flown to London for a scientific or medical conference. ''It would have been good for us to know about this beforehand, but it wasn't required,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); HOSPITALS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MEDICAID (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (70%); MEDICARE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); SAINT LUCIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



170 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
QUESTION OF CHINA LOOMS
IN TAIWANESE ELECTIONS
When voters go to the polls next week in Taiwan, one issue remains a constant: whether the island should speed, slow or halt its wary embrace of China. Page A4
TIPS FOR SCOTLAND YARD 
A report commissioned by British police issued recommendations on law enforcement interacting with the news media in light of cozy relations that were revealed during investigations of phone hacking scandals. Page A4
MYANMAR'S FIRST GIRL BAND
With sensual choreography and provocative outfits, Myanmar's first girl band pushes the limits of artistic acceptability in a socially conservative country. Page A11
National
F.D.A. LIMITS THE USE
OF ANTIBIOTICS IN LIVESTOCK
Federal drug regulators announced that use of a critical class of antibiotics in cattle, pigs, chickens and turkeys must be restricted because it may have contributed to the growing threat in people of bacterial infections that are resistant to treatment. Page A12
PLANS FOR A SMALLER ARMY
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta has concluded that the Army has to shrink to 490,000 soldiers over the next decade, according to military officials and analysts. Page A17
New York
MAN SENTENCED TO 32 YEARS
FOR FRAMING EX-GIRLFRIEND
The Queens private detective who raped his ex-girlfriend and then framed her for a series of fictional crimes was sentenced to the maximum of 32 years in prison, closing a case that prosecutors said involved one of the most elaborate schemes in recent history. Page A19
ENDLESS ROAD WORK
The Brooklyn-Queens Expressway is a roadway that has earned an infamous reputation in the New York metropolitan area, if not urban America as a whole, for construction that never ends. Page A18
Business
MARKET STILL CAUTIOUS
FOR PUBLIC OFFERINGS
Faced with a fragile economy, more than 200 American companies are now waiting to go public, the highest number in roughly a decade, said an advisory firm. Page B1
DISNEY-COMCAST AGREEMENT
The Walt Disney Company and Comcast said that they had reached a decade-long distribution agreement covering all Disney's television content, including streaming for mobile devices. Page B2
COMMODITY TRADE LIMITS
A divided Commodity Futures Trading Commission rebuffed a request from Wall Street to delay new restrictions on speculative commodities trading. Page B8
Sports
GIANTS FACE REX RYAN,
ROB RYAN AND MATT RYAN
By Sunday, the Giants will have faced a number of opponents on their quest for a Super Bowl: the New England Patriots, the San Francisco 49ers, the New Orleans Saints, the Green Bay Packers and three guys named Ryan. Page B10
SOCCER GOALKEEPER SCORES
Tim Howard, the United States national team's goalkeeper who is playing in the English Premier League, became only the fourth goalkeeper in league history to score a goal, managing the feat from his own penalty area. Page B15
Arts
OTHER SOURCES OF OPERA
WITHIN NEW YORK CITY
By now enough people have gotten on enough soapboxes about the New York City Opera's sorry financial state. But while the company remains in limbo, it has fallen to a range of smaller companies to provide variety and intimacy as a complement. Page C1
Home
THE PIRATES OF THE EAST END
RESCUE ONE MAN'S HOME
Luck and cheap credit allowed the acquisition of a house in East Hampton, N.Y. Tension arrived with maintaining it, and those crafty pirates of the East End: plumbers, carpenters and electricians. Page D1
Style
IN SEARCH OF A KNOCKOUT
READY FOR THE RED CARPET
It is award season again in Hollywood and young female stars are working around the clock with stylists to find that perfect dress for the red carpet. Page E1
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SENTENCING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (88%); ATHLETES (86%); SOCCER (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); FUTURES (74%); BACTERIA (74%); POULTRY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); SCANDALS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); WIRETAPPING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%); CITIES (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (81%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%); GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); MYANMAR (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



171 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Would Skyrocket If Iran Closed the Strait

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- If Iran were to follow through with its threat to blockade the Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit route for almost one-fifth of the oil traded globally, the impact would be immediate: Energy analysts say the price of oil would start to soar and could rise 50 percent or more within days.
An Iranian blockade by means of mining, airstrikes or sabotage is logistically well within Tehran's military capabilities. But despite rising tensions with the West, including a tentative ban on European imports of Iranian oil announced Wednesday, Iran is unlikely to take such hostile action, according to most Middle East political experts. 
United States officials say the Navy's Fifth Fleet, based in nearby Bahrain, stands ready to defend the shipping route and, if necessary, retaliate militarily against Iran.
Iran's own shaky economy relies on exporting at least two million barrels of oil a day through the strait, which is the only sea route from the Persian Gulf and ''the world's most important oil choke point,'' according to Energy Department analysts.
A blockade would also punish China, Iran's most important oil customer and a major recipient of Persian Gulf oil. China has invested heavily in Iranian oil fields and has opposed Western efforts to sanction Iran over its nuclear program.
Despite such deterrents to armed confrontation, oil and foreign policy analysts say a miscalculation is possible that could cause an overreaction from one side or the other.
''I fear we may be blundering toward a crisis nobody wants,'' said Helima Croft, senior geopolitical strategist at Barclays Capital. ''There is a peril of engaging in brinksmanship from all sides.''
Various Iranian officials in recent weeks have said they would blockade the strait, which is only 21 miles wide at its narrowest point, if the United States and Europe imposed a tight oil embargo on their country in an effort to thwart its development of nuclear weapons.
That did not stop President Obama from signing legislation last weekend imposing sanctions against Iran's Central Bank intended to make it more difficult for the country to sell its oil, nor did it dissuade the European Union from moving toward a ban on Iranian oil imports.
Energy analysts say even a partial blockage of the Strait of Hormuz could raise the world price of oil within days by $50 a barrel or more, and that would quickly push the price of a gallon of regular gasoline to well over $4 a gallon. ''You would get an international reaction that would not only be high, but irrationally high,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation.
Just the threat of such a development has helped keep oil prices above $100 a barrel in recent weeks despite a return of Libyan oil to world markets, worries of a European economic downturn and weakening American gasoline demand. Oil prices rose slightly on Wednesday as the political tensions intensified.
American officials have warned Iran against violating international laws that protect commercial shipping in international waters, adding that the Navy would guarantee free sea traffic.
''If the Iranians chose to use their modest navy and antiship missiles to attack allied forces, they would see a probable swift devastation of their naval capability,'' said David L. Goldwyn, former State Department coordinator for international energy affairs. ''We would take out their frigates.''
More than 85 percent of the oil and most of the natural gas that flows through the strait goes to China, Japan, India, South Korea and other Asian nations. But a blockade would have a ripple effect on global oil prices.
Since Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates all rely on the strait to ship their oil and natural gas exports, a blockade might undermine some of those governments in an already unstable region.
Analysts say that a crisis over the Strait of Hormuz would most likely bring China and the United States into something of an alliance to restore shipments, although Mr. Goldwyn said China would more likely resort to private diplomacy instead of military force.
Europe and the United States would probably feel the least direct impact because they have strategic oil reserves and could get some Persian Gulf oil through Red Sea pipelines. Saudi Arabia has pipelines that could transport about five million barrels out of the region, while Iraq and the United Arab Emirates also have pipelines with large capacities.
But transportation costs would be higher if the strait were blocked, and several million barrels of oil exports would remain stranded, sending energy prices soaring on global markets.
''To close the Strait of Hormuz would be an act of war against the whole world,'' said Sadad Ibrahim Al-Husseini, former head of exploration and development at Saudi Aramco. ''You just can't play with the global economy and assume that nobody is going to react.''
The Iranians have struck in the strait before. In the 1980s, Iran attacked Kuwaiti tankers carrying Iraqi oil, and the Reagan administration reflagged Kuwaiti ships under American flags and escorted them with American warships. Iran backed down, partially, but continued to plant mines.
In 1988, an American frigate hit an Iranian mine and nearly sank. United States warships retaliated by destroying some Iranian oil platforms. Attacks and counterattacks continued for months, and a missile from an American warship accidentally shot down an Iranian passenger aircraft, killing 290 passengers.
Energy experts say a crisis in the strait would most likely unfold gradually, with Iran using its threats as a way to increase oil prices and shipping costs for the West as retaliation against the tightening of sanctions. So far, energy experts say, insurance companies have not raised prices for covering tankers, but shipping companies are already preparing to pay bonuses for crews facing more hazardous duties.
''My guess is this is a lot of threats,'' said Michael A. Levi, an energy expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, ''but there is no certainty in this kind of situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iranian naval ships during exercises on Tuesday in the Strait of Hormuz. The country has threatened a blockade of the passage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBRAHIM NOROUZI/JAMEJAMONLINE, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) MAP: The vital Strait of Hormuz narrows to 21 miles across. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (52%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (93%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



172 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: After South Boston, A Restaurant Was Easy

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN

 BODY:
Emerging from the housing projects of South Boston where James Bulger, known as Whitey, once ruled, Barbara Lynch has become one of Boston's most successful and celebrated restaurateurs.
Without so much as a high school diploma, the 47-year-old Ms. Lynch has built a company, Barbara Lynch Gruppo, of nine culinary businesses that have 250 employees and produce $19 million in annual revenue. Along with six popular and award-winning restaurants, like No. 9 Park, Menton, Sportello, B&G Oysters and The Butcher Shop, Ms. Lynch runs Drink, an upscale watering hole; Stir, a demonstration kitchen and cookbook store; and 9 at Home, a catering business. On the drawing board are a small food lab and a food-manufacturing business.
Ms. Lynch spoke recently about defying the odds in an industry where most restaurants fail after the first three years and the overwhelming majority of chef/owners are men. A condensed version of the conversation follows.
Q.How did you work up the courage to open your first restaurant? 
A. I have always been a risk-taker, even as a kid. I stole an MBTA bus when I was 13 just for laughs and never got caught. It was all because of my upbringing. I was the youngest of six children raised by my single mother and I was fearless. I had worked for several chefs, including Todd English, and by the time I was 26, I had my first executive chef's job at Rocco's, an Italian restaurant in the theater district, with a staff of 22 underneath me seven days a week, breakfast, lunch and dinner. By the time I was 34, I knew I didn't want to work for another chef.
Q.What was it about your upbringing?
A. I just didn't want to be on welfare. I'd wake up in the morning and see this dilapidated building we lived in, and I knew there had to be a better life. I was a bookie in high school, and I'd place bets for some of my teachers. I dealt drugs, anything to survive. And when I was 13, I got my first cooking job making meals for the priests living in the rectory of the church across the street. I figured if I could cook, I'd have a job for the rest of my life.
Q.Why do you think your restaurants succeeded?
A. I had a vision of exactly the kind of place it had to be. I'd worked at a private club in Boston as a waitress when I was 15 and the chef there was an Escoffier chef who made sweetbreads under a bell, put together the most elegant white-glove dining, and he was making people happy by cooking. I knew then that was what I wanted to do. I would provide fantastic hospitality to make people feel amazing, with great china and great silverware and a great space. And it worked.
Q.How did you find investors?
A. I got some advice from a friend of my future husband's brother, who helped me with the business plan. Then I started networking throughout Boston. My first angel investor was Arnold Hiatt, an executive at Stride Rite Corporation. I was very conservative about my plan. I didn't come in with lots of data or charts telling them how many seats I was going to have. I knew I wanted my check average to be $56, and I made clear that I wasn't going to set myself up to fail. I wasn't trying to set myself up as the best chef in the city. I was just going to have a really great restaurant that is attainable and not intimidating. I think my investors loved the fact that I was self-taught, that I came from Boston, that I was raised by a mother with five other children and that I was clearly a hard worker.
Q. What was the smartest thing you did to please your investors?
A. I made it a point to pay them back in three years. I didn't take a salary until I paid them back.
Q.What did you live on?
A. Those were definitely lean years. I had just gotten married, and we made a commitment to putting everything into this restaurant. All I did was work.
Q.What failures have you learned the most from?
A. I haven't had many failures but one was to open a produce store called Plum Produce in the South End of Boston. It was basically a beautiful little storefront in which we had porcini mushrooms, heirloom apples, all sorts of produce from the local farmers who supplied the restaurants. But when I opened it in 2006, the South End was filled with young professionals who didn't like to cook during the week. My lesson was to do more research and understand the challenges of retail more.
Q. Anything else you would do differently?
A. My advice would be, try to own the property. I don't care if it's a garage but buy it because with me, nine restaurants later, I don't own any of my buildings. I lease.
Q. Why are there so few successful women chef/owners?
A. Part of the problem is that many women have insecurities about being a chef and not understanding the business side. When I started, I had a general manager and a business manager, both men, and they would sit down, go over the profit-and-loss statements every month, and I had a hard time understanding those P.& L.'s. They made me feel, ''Oh you're just a chef from the projects. You don't know anything.'' But after a while, I felt something wasn't right. I realized I had to learn the business side, too, because this is my vision and it all comes from the top.
Q.Is your business profitable?
A. Yes. It's been profitable since I started No. 9 Park in 1998, and I paid back my investors. All my properties have been profitable since Day 1 except Menton. That's my toughest challenge, and I'm still tweaking the formula. It's a high-end restaurant, and the economy makes it tough. The location is great but the developers around me have failed to keep up.
Q.How closely involved are you in the day-to-day operations of each business?
A. My management team keeps nightly logs of everything going on in each entity -- who cut their finger, what table we screwed up on, which meat wasn't hot enough -- so I read those first thing every day. I created the vision and the culture and everyone on my senior staff has been with me for eight to 10 years, which is unheard-of in this industry, but it helps me stay on top of the day-to-day business.
Q.Do you hire people from your old neighborhood?
A. I have. At Sportello, which is minutes from where I grew up, I have two servers and a line cook, all of whom happened to have grown up in Southie or Dorchester. I get people from all over applying for jobs, and we hire whoever is a great fit and hungry to learn.
Q.How can you tell who gets it?
A. The ones who get it have an incredible work ethic -- that's huge -- and they are open to learning new things. If they just wanted to bartend or wait tables, they might go elsewhere, but they come here because they want to learn.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An answer in the Small Business feature on Thursday about the Boston restaurateur Barbara Lynch referred incorrectly to the founding of the Stride Rite Corporation. It was started by Jacob A. Slosberg and Philip Green -- not by Arnold Hiatt, who joined the company later and became its president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara Lynch, at Sportello, one of her Boston restaurants, defied the odds in a high-risk industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CATERING SERVICES (76%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



173 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Real Connections In Game Land

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
I used to talk to Natasha on the phone.
You remember the telephone. When I first met Natasha about five years ago in my neighborhood -- the south side of Williamsburg, Brooklyn -- we would, you know, call each other when we wanted to meet up for lunch or a drink.
As do many friends over time, Natasha and I eventually found ourselves texting each other. But now that seems like a long time ago. That's because Natasha doesn't call or write anymore. I'm even hard-pressed to find her on Facebook.
We're still good friends, but there is only one reliable way to communicate with her these days: Words With Friends, the popular electronic Scrabble knockoff. You see, Natasha disconnected her cellphone service, but she still uses her iPhone on Wi-Fi. She always has at least a dozen Words games going, and she now uses the chat window in each game as her primary real-time link with the world. 
Natasha might take a couple of days to respond to an e-mail or Facebook message, but make a new move in a Words game and she's on it in minutes. When visitors from out of town want to let her know they're around, they tell her via Words. After she reconnected recently with an old classmate, they flirted through Words for six months before meeting in person. (I hear it went well.)
When Natasha learned that I wrote about video games, she thought that was exotic. And it was, five years ago. Now an electronic game is a basic staple of her everyday existence.
This is not so unusual. Almost every adult in the industrialized world (and many in developing economies) now uses some sort of electronic device daily, and all of those devices offer some sort of game. As games become ubiquitous, they are not only content but also context, context for mundane human relationships among people who don't even consider themselves gamers.
Just ask Shawna, to her chagrin.
Shawna is another neighborhood friend. Like Natasha, she is independently employed, works mostly from home and is around 30 years old. Like Natasha, Shawna is Internet literate but has barely the faintest interest in Xboxes, PlayStations or anything else to do with traditional video games. Also like Natasha, Shawna maintains some of her closest relationships through a video game.
The big difference is that Shawna has been pulled into game land against her will. The culprit is her own mother, a 50-year-old labor-and-delivery nurse in South Carolina. ''My mother is obsessed with YoVille,'' Shawna said the other day, her tongue not entirely planted in cheek.
Like many Facebook games YoVille is about letting players decorate a house, an apartment, a plantation, a town or nearly any other virtual environment. In order to keep making your virtual dollhouse larger and more attractive, you usually have to start spending real money or continue recruiting more and more friends. Logging in six times a day also helps. It is a formula that makes for insipid games but a reasonable business model. (Like Words With Friends, YoVille is owned by Zynga, the Internet game company that recently went public.)
Early home-decoration games like the Sims found their most fervent players among school-age girls, but the core audience for these kinds of Facebook games is middle-aged women like Shawna's mom. When Shawna tried to quit the game, that didn't go over well at home.
''She actually started complaining to me that my apartment in YoVille was a mess and how I needed to log in more and decorate it,'' Shawna said. ''I thought she was kidding, but she wasn't. It's like she was complaining about my real apartment.''
Shawna added that her mother must be at work around 6 a.m., and that she gets up early to play YoVille.
''Now she's got my 10-year-old nephew into it,'' she said. ''I think it's kind of cute, but the problem is she started sending me serious messages about family business in YoVille, and I was missing them because I didn't play the game as much as she does.''
What sort of serious messages?
''You know, basic things like the fact that my brother was getting married,'' Shawna said. ''You think I'm kidding, but I'm not.''
When we play a game with or against someone, we get something out of it that we don't find on a message board or in a bare chat room, e-mail, text or even a phone call: a sense that we are actually doing something together.
Sure, even in real life you sometimes just want to sit and talk. But no matter how artificial the activity itself may be, that warm feeling of participating in something together with someone you care about is genuine. The substance of the game is almost irrelevant; when you know that another person is logging in every few hours or days to make a move, that connection is surprisingly intimate.
Of course, as anyone who has ever played Monopoly or Risk with close family members can attest, competitive games with those close to you don't always end well. That's why people in the best relationships seem to play collaboratively.
You could ask a third friend of mine all about that, but she doesn't talk about it much. It's too painful. (None of my friends wanted to be publicly attached to these stories for the rest of their lives.)
Unlike Natasha and Shawna, my third friend is a real gamer. Her preferred console is the PlayStation 3, and she always played games with her boyfriends, curling up for hours and sharing the controller as they explored various virtual adventures.
Playing video games was one of the main hobbies she shared with her fiance right until he died suddenly one month before their planned wedding last fall.
Many weeks after her tragedy, she asked me (via text) if I could recommend any ''game therapy.'' She needed something to take her mind off the hell she was in, even for a little while.
One game her fiance had bought was the sleeper zombie hit Dead Island, which I had wanted to play anyway. My friend was camped out in mourning at her mother's house (with her PS3), so we started to play together remotely.
Dead Island is great, but we didn't get far before she told me she needed something stronger -- an even more potent distraction from the real world. What else could I do but turn her on to World of Warcraft?
World of Warcraft is famously immersive, and within a week my friend was fully engaged: asking detailed questions about spells and weighing the pros and cons of different abilities. Unsurprisingly, perhaps, she chose to play as a night elf druid that specializes in healing.
To play with her I made a human paladin that specializes in protection.
When we type back and forth in the game, it's mostly about how to defeat the next monster or about the dungeon we're about to clear out. For her time in the game is time away from her grief. So I keep it light and try to keep her attention focused on the orcs and skeletons and ogres and demons we're slaying.
I can't quite do that on the phone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Words With Friends offers its players a chat window. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZYNGA)(C1)
A night elf temple in World of Warcraft, above, an online computer game that is famously immersive. YoVille, left, is a game with a Facebook application that allows players to decorate a house, a town or nearly any other virtual environment, as well as send messages to others. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BLIZZARD ENTERTAINMENT
 ZYNGA)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TOYS & GAMES (88%); COMPUTER GAMES (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



174 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: MDC Partners Picks Up RJ Palmer

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
RJ PALMER, a leading independent media agency, is being acquired by MDC Partners in a deal that underscores the growing importance to marketers of media services in a digital age.
RJ Palmer is based in New York and handles accounts with billings estimated at more than $800 million for brands like Ben & Jerry's, sold by Unilever; Build-A-Bear Workshop; the footwear retailer DSW; Dulcolax, Flomax, Spiriva and Zantac, from Boehringer Ingelheim; Keurig, sold by Green Mountain Coffee; Lunesta, from Sunovion; Perdue Farms; Sherwin-Williams; and Sports Illustrated, published by the Time Inc. division of Time Warner.
The services provided to clients by RJ Palmer include media planning and buying as well as branded entertainment, which is focused on helping to incorporate brands into programming like television shows. 
The holding company MDC Partners owns all or part of 50 agencies like Anomaly, Concentric Pharma Advertising, Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Laird & Partners, Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, Sloane & Company and Vitro. MDC is acquiring 100 percent of RJ Palmer and a controlling stake in a unit of RJ Palmer, Trade X Media, that specializes in corporate bartering services.
The deal, which is to be formally announced on Thursday, will cost MDC an estimated $25 million, including additional considerations based on future performance. RJ Palmer will operate as a stand-alone division of MDC; all of its senior managers and 70 employees are to continue with the agency.
MDC Partners has been on a buying spree in recent years, seeking to accelerate growth through acquisitions to better compete against its far larger rivals like WPP, the Omnicom Group, the Interpublic Group of Companies, the Publicis Groupe, Dentsu and Havas. MDC made four deals in 2011, 13 in 2010 and two in 2009.
MDC will be ''more ambitious'' in deal-making in 2012 than last year, said Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive at MDC, which is based in New York, because he is ''feeling better and better'' about the economic climate, albeit ''in a cautious way.''
''The American economy is growing, growing slowly,'' Mr. Nadal said. ''I see this as an opportunity to bulk up, get more expertise'' in areas like media services, analytics and digital advertising.
The deal for RJ Palmer, also known as RJ Palmer Media Services, is the largest by MDC in the media realm. It is part of an effort by MDC to increase the amount of media billings under the aegis of its agencies, now at almost $1 billion, to $10 billion ''in the next five to 10 years,'' Mr. Nadal said.
''There is significant opportunity'' in media services, Mr. Nadal said, as the business undergoes ''a dramatic change'' because consumers are so ardently embracing digital, social and mobile media.
''As we service more Fortune 100 clients,'' he added, more comprehensive media offerings are needed.
RJ Palmer was opened in 1979 by Robert J. Palmer, who died in 2009. He sold his interest in the agency in the 1990s but remained active until 2007.
RJ Palmer is considered among the first independent media agencies in the United States along with shops like Independent Media Services, which was founded in 1966 by Richard Gershon, who died on Nov. 15.
As ''one of the few independent media operations left standing,'' said Peter Knobloch, chief executive at RJ Palmer, the agency's principals had been approached many times about a possible sale.
This time, the answer was yes because of pledges from Mr. Nadal that MDC would ''allow us to do what we've been doing,'' Mr. Knobloch said, and ''keep our way of doing business.''
''We spent lots of time with Miles going over this,'' he added, and were assured that MDC would not be ''enveloping us and sticking us in another group, or another area, with more of a 'control' aspect.''
''MDC is looking to grow in the media area,'' Mr. Knobloch said, ''and we hope we'll help them along those lines.''
The resources that MDC and its agencies can provide RJ Palmer ''will help us grow'' in specialties like social media, he added, where ''I'd love to get my hands on more resources.''
The new digital ways to reach consumers are proliferating so rapidly, Mr. Knobloch joked, that ''by the time we get off the phone, there'll be another.''
RJ Palmer has offices in Atlanta and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in addition to its headquarters in New York. The senior managers at RJ Palmer who will remain after the sale include, in addition to Mr. Knobloch, Jim Vail, president; Pete Regan, chief operating officer; Peter Stieglitz, chief financial officer; and Vince Laraia, president of Trade X Media.
Last month, at a conference, Mr. Nadal discussed how he was becoming more bullish on the outlook for the advertising, marketing and media industries in 2012 than had previously been the case.
Mr. Nadal said he believed that the strength of the balance sheets of most marketers meant they would maintain or increase ad spending.
''I think you're going to see very good growth,'' he added. ''Wall Street keeps saying, 'This is 2008 all over again,' and it's not.''
After the sale of RJ Palmer, the ranks of independent media agencies include Empower MediaMarketing , Horizon Media, Mediasmith and TargetCast TCM.
''There's not that many left on the prairie,'' Mr. Knobloch said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RJ Palmer principals include Peter Knobloch, the chief executive, behind the desk
Pete Regan, left, the chief operating officer
 and Jim Vail, the president. The firm is being acquired by the holding company MDC Partners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); MOBILE MEDIA (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FOOTWEAR (73%); RETAILERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); SHOE STORES (56%); SOCIAL MEDIA (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); MDC PARTNERS INC (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); TIME INC (71%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (69%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (58%); BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (57%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (57%); BUILD-A-BEAR WORKSHOP INC (57%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (57%); PERDUE FARMS INC (57%); SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO (57%); HAVAS SA (56%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); MDZ.A (TSX) (90%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (90%); PUB (PAR) (83%); GMCR (NASDAQ) (57%); BBW (NYSE) (57%); UNIA (AMS) (57%); UNA (BIT) (57%); UNA (AMS) (57%); UN (NYSE) (57%); ULVR (LSE) (57%); UL (NYSE) (57%); SHW (NYSE) (57%); HAV (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (57%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (57%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (57%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (57%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



175 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: In Bold Step, Europe Nears Embargo on Iran Oil

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels.

 BODY:
PARIS -- European countries have taken their boldest step so far in the increasingly tense standoff with Iran over its nuclear program, agreeing in principle to impose an embargo on Iranian oil, French and European diplomats said on Wednesday.
A final decision by the European Union will not come before the end of January and would be carried out in stages to avoid major disruptions in global oil supplies. But the move by some of Iran's most important oil customers appears to underscore the resolve of Western allies to impose on Iran the toughest round of sanctions to date, increasing pressure on Tehran to stop enriching uranium and negotiate an end to what Western leaders argue is an accelerating program to build a nuclear bomb.
Iran denies any military intent and refuses to stop enrichment of uranium for what it describes as civilian purposes. But it has responded to the threat of new American and European sanctions with a series of military and diplomatic threats. It has test-fired new missiles, announced the production of its first nuclear-fuel rod, warned an American aircraft carrier not to return to the Persian Gulf, and threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz to shipping, which analysts said could drive oil prices up by at least 50 percent. 
Iran has also said that it wants to reopen talks with the West on the nuclear issue, which was interpreted in Paris as an effort by Iran to buy time to continue its program.
The threats from Iran, aimed both at the West and at Israel, combined with a recent assessment by the International Atomic Energy Agency that Iran's nuclear program has a military objective, is becoming an important issue in the American presidential campaign. Republican presidential candidates are urging stronger measures against Iran, including some who are pushing for the use of military force, to stop the Islamic government from getting nuclear weaponry and to better protect Israel.
Israel has warned that time is running out to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, given that Tehran has been moving its enrichment facilities deep into mountains, making it harder to attack them militarily. Israel has called on the United States and the West to make sanctions more punishing to persuade Iran to negotiate seriously and to make the development of a nuclear weapon more costly for an economy already suffering from an array of financial and trade sanctions.
In Washington, the Obama administration welcomed the reports that the European Union was moving toward an oil embargo in Iran as ''very good news and the result of lots of consultations among us, between the U.S. and E.U. countries,'' said the State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland. Such action ''is consistent with tightening the noose on Iran economically,'' she said. ''We think that the place to get Iran's attention is with regard to its oil sector.''
Last weekend, President Obama signed legislation aimed at imposing sanctions on foreign companies that do business with Iran, which could reduce Iran's ability to sell its oil and other exports. Iran's first vice president, Mohammad-Reza Rahimi, then declared that if sanctions were imposed on Iranian oil exports, Iran would block shipping through the Strait of Hormuz.
While American officials discounted the threat as self-defeating for Iran, at the same time they said they had plans to keep the strait open.
Iran has its own domestic politics, with parliamentary elections in March, and the government wants to show that it will protect Iran's interests, both economic and military.
The increasingly shrill tone from Iran seemed a direct response, diplomats suggested, to economic sanctions that are finally biting hard and threaten to damage Iran's ability to export oil. Oil represents about 60 percent of Iran's economy, and oil exports are a vital source of foreign currency. In 2010, European countries bought about 18 percent of Iranian oil exports, with most of the rest going to Asia. So a European oil embargo would have a limited but significant effect on Iran, which depends heavily on its oil exports for cash to buy needed imports.
In 2010, oil from Iran accounted for some 5.8 percent of total European imports of crude, with Spain, Italy and Greece the most reliant. The new Italian prime minister, Mario Monti, said this week that Italy would support an oil embargo as long as it was applied gradually and deliveries to repay Tehran's debts to the Italian energy company ENI were exempted.
Turkey, not a member of the European Union, is another important customer, getting about 30 percent of its oil imports from Iran. It has asked the United States for a waiver on dealing with Iran's Central Bank so it can continue to buy at least some Iranian oil.
The United States and France have been pushing hard for an embargo and sanctions against Iran's Central Bank. But some European nations depend heavily on Iranian oil and have been reluctant to cut off their imports during a severe economic slump.
At the end of December, lower-ranking diplomats agreed in Brussels to the shape of a European oil embargo on Iran, vowing to meet objections by some states that have significant oil imports from Iran, including Italy, Spain and Greece.
Those countries also expressed concerns about the impact on their already fragile economies of the increase in oil prices that would inevitably follow a sudden embargo. Wednesday's news caused a spike in the price of oil, with Brent crude reaching nearly $114 a barrel, up nearly $2 from Tuesday.
European Union diplomats said Wednesday evening that while objections to an embargo had been overcome, there had been no formal agreement yet.
The compromise was to draw up phased sanctions that would not immediately break pre-existing contracts, the diplomats said. Italy, for instance, has already paid for a significant amount of Iranian oil in advance, one senior French diplomat said. ''If they stopped importing right now they would lose a lot of money,'' the diplomat said.
The phased approach would also give international oil markets time to adjust to fill the supply gap created by a ban on Iranian oil, the diplomat said. Talks among European envoys will continue and focus partly on what contracts should be exempted from the ban and for how long.
''Now modalities and timing still need to be decided,'' said another European diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity as negotiations were under way. ''There's still a lot of work to be done,'' that diplomat said.
In addition, European nations must resolve differences over sanctions on the financial sector in Iran, including transactions with the Central Bank, and here there was little agreement, diplomats said.
Alain Juppe, the French foreign minister, said Wednesday evening in Portugal that a decision on an oil embargo could take place at a European Union summit meeting on Jan. 30, although putting one into place would take longer.
''It's at this occasion I hope that we can adopt this embargo on Iranian oil exports,'' Mr. Juppe said at a news conference in Lisbon. ''We are working on this. and things are on track.''
He said that ''we have to reassure some of our European partners who purchase Iranian oil, we have to provide them with alternative solutions.'' But alternatives exist, he said, without going into specifics, ''and I think we can attain the objective by the end of January.''
In Tehran, the governor of Iran's Central Bank, Mahmoud Bahmani, acknowledged Wednesday that the ''psychological effects'' of new United States financial sanctions were partly responsible for the devaluation of Iran's currency, the rial, which rebounded some from record lows on Tuesday. Mr. Bahmani said Iran might raise interest rates to stabilize the market.
In comments published Wednesday, Mr. Bahmani said that Iran could handle sanctions itself. ''I say this with great certainty that sanctions don't create problems for the country's economy,'' he said. ''While knowing this, the enemy is depending on creating psychological tensions. If we are intimidated, we will be playing into the enemy's hands.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi of Iran, left, and his Turkish counterpart, Ahmet Davutoglu, right, in Tehran on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTA KENARE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) EUROPE (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); IRAN (88%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



176 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Cool Market For I.P.O.'s Continues

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI. 
David Pogue, whose State of the Art column normally appears on this page, is off.

 BODY:
It will take more than Facebook to heat up the tepid market for initial public offerings.
As conditions remain fragile, the backlog of public offerings has continued to grow. More than 200 American companies are now waiting to go public, the highest number in roughly a decade, according to Renaissance Capital, an advisory firm.
Demand is mixed. Investors are eagerly anticipating an offering from Facebook, which is expected to go public in the second quarter at a market value of $100 billion. But other companies - including Toys ''R'' Us, Yelp and the Carlyle Group - may not get such a warm reception. 
Facebook ''will bring a potentially unprecedented amount of attention to the I.P.O. market,'' said Peter Falvey, a managing director at Morgan Keegan, an investment bank. But, he said, ''its I.P.O. in all likelihood won't have a tremendous impact on the ability of other companies to execute offerings.''
The problem is that investors are still recovering from 2011. About 70 percent of the companies that went public in 2011 are trading below their offering prices, according to Kathleen Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital.
Wary of risk, investors have gravitated toward more established stocks in recent months. In 2011, the Renaissance Global I.P.O. Index, which tracks recent public offerings, tumbled 20.6 percent. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which tracks large-cap companies, was relatively flat for the year.
''Deals will come, but at least initially, investors are likely to look carefully at pricing,'' said Brian Reilly, head of United States equity capital markets for Barclays Capital.
Last year started with promise, with a rising tide of confidence in the equity markets and an exuberance for the new generation of Internet companies. A string of technology offerings, like LinkedIn, the professional social network, and Yandex, the so-called Google of Russia, posted at least double-digit gains on their debuts. In the first half of 2011, 78 companies went public in the United States, raising $25.6 billion, more than double the amount raised in the period a year earlier, according to data from Renaissance Capital.
But the rally was short-lived. With trouble in Europe and growth in the American economy remaining sluggish, volatility ruled the markets in the late summer, effectively shuttering the market for public offerings. In the second half of the year, a total of 448 companies went public worldwide, raising $55.6 billion, a 68 percent drop from the second half of 2010, according to data from Thomson Reuters. The markets in Asia were among the hardest hit, with I.P.O. volume plunging nearly 73 percent, to $32.7 billion, during the period.
Several well-known brands managed to go public in November and December, including Groupon, Zynga and the fashion retailer Michael Kors. But many of the companies that went public in the second half of 2011 have struggled to hold on to early gains. Groupon, the daily deals site, has seesawed wildly. Its stock now stands at roughly $19, just below its initial price. Zynga, which went public in mid-December, has never closed above its offering price of $10 a share.
''The market got ahead of itself,'' said Jeffrey H. Bunzel, the head of equity capital markets for the Americas for Credit Suisse. ''Earlier in the year, there were unrealistic expectations. Since then the macro environment has definitely come down.''
With returns still depressed, many analysts say they believe 2012 will continue to be a challenging one for public offerings. Many companies hoping to go public will have to cut their prices or the size of their offerings to match investor appetite, they say.
''We don't believe investors will be very comfortable investing in this I.P.O. market because they are still nursing inferior returns for recent I.P.O.'s.,'' Ms. Smith said.
Despite the muted backdrop, the number of companies waiting to go public is growing. Nineteen companies filed to go public in the United States in December, nearly 50 percent more than in December 2010. The modest uptick was a notable increase compared with the doldrums of September, when there were zero filings.
Private equity is also expected to be a major driver of offerings in 2012. Deals backed by private equity made up more than half of the total volume in the United States last year, including multibillion-dollar offerings from the hospital company HCA and the pipeline operator Kinder Morgan. But most of the activity came in the first six months, amid favorable conditions, and buyout shops are facing increasing pressure to liquidate maturing portfolios.
''Financial sponsors have a very large portfolio of companies looking to access the public markets,'' Mr. Bunzel said. ''The level of participation may be even higher this year, frankly.''
While the majority of the public offering market is closely tied to the finicky winds of today's stock markets and the fortunes of Europe, many analysts say they believe Facebook will be a singular event. The social network, which has nearly a billion users, is expected to attract a bevy of investors at home and abroad.
A strong debut from Facebook will not be a cure-all for the feeble public offering market, analysts say. A flop, however, could deal a hearty blow.
''In the somewhat unlikely event that the valuation or aftermarket performance of Facebook's I.P.O. is disappointing,'' Mr. Falvey of Morgan Keegan said, ''then there could be a hangover effect whereby investors think, if even Facebook's I.P.O. was disappointing, what does that mean for the prospects of other companies?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A wall at Facebook's New York office is signed by employees. The company may go public in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Yelp, the online review service, may also go public this year. Demand for public offerings is mixed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); STATISTICS (72%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); YANDEX NV (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); GOOGLE INC (53%); GROUPON INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%); YNDX (NASDAQ) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



177 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo's Renovator in Chief

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Yahoo has chosen its Mr. Fix-It.
After a few months' search, the struggling Internet media company announced on Wednesday that its new chief executive would be Scott Thompson, the president of PayPal, the online payment service owned by eBay.
The 54-year-old Mr. Thompson, analysts say, has a background mainly in technology rather than digital media or corporate turnarounds. While PayPal is a consumer service, analysts said that was very different from a media company. 
Mr. Thompson joins a company that is losing momentum against the ascendant powers in the consumer Internet business -- Google and Facebook. Its woes persist even though it has 700 million online visitors a month, one of the largest audiences on the Web; is a leader in online news, sports and finance; and will report net profit of more than $1 billion in 2011 on revenue of nearly $4.44 billion, estimates Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus.
Still, Facebook surged past Yahoo last year in online display advertising in the United States for the first time, according to eMarketer, a research firm. Yahoo has farmed out its search advertising to Microsoft, in a cash payment and revenue-sharing deal.
The overall online ad market increased more than 20 percent to $31.3 billion last year, while Yahoo's share of that thriving market slipped to 11 percent from 13.3 percent in 2010, eMarketer estimates.
Yahoo's slippage prompted the ouster last September of Carol Bartz, a respected technology executive recruited to be Yahoo's chief executive in 2009. But Ms. Bartz proved unable to rejuvenate the company.
Now it is Mr. Thompson's turn.
''Yahoo seems like the ideal fixer-upper from afar,'' Mr. Rohan said. ''But Internet assets are hard to fix.''
In a conference call on Wednesday morning, Roy J. Bostock, the chairman of Yahoo's board, said Mr. Thompson had proved at PayPal that he could take a company with solid assets and build a business. That is the central challenge at Yahoo, Mr. Bostock said, noting its collection of online media offerings and large audience. The problem, he said, was that Yahoo had been floundering -- ''treading water,'' as he put it. ''You can call it a turnaround, if you want to,'' Mr. Bostock said.
Analysts say Mr. Thompson must first decide how to focus Yahoo's strategy.
In recent years, the company has spread itself too thin by making sizable investments in technology and also in creating original media content, said Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst at Forrester Research. That, she noted, is in contrast to Google, which aggregates content from around the Web and concentrates its investment in technology, but does not spend money to create media content itself.
Mr. Thompson, analysts say, will probably push to harvest more advertising dollars from all the consumer data it collects from people using its popular e-mail service and visiting its sites, which cover a range of topics including finance, sports and gossip.
''It's not about putting up pretty content, but about maximizing the value of the eyeballs in front of that content,'' said Charlene Li, founder of the Altimeter Group, a technology research firm. ''There's a real opportunity for him at Yahoo, if they can take all this data and use it for advertisers.''
At PayPal, Mr. Thompson demonstrated an ability to take an existing business, redefine it and achieve strong growth. Since he took over PayPal in 2008, and before that when he was chief technology officer, Mr. Thompson helped guide the company's transition from being a payment method for eBay shoppers alone to an online payment system for all kinds of transactions. Under Mr. Thompson, PayPal expanded its number of users to more than 104 million, from 50 million, and increased its revenue to more than $4 billion, from $1.8 billion.
''That, to me, is a track record of building,'' Mr. Bostock said.
In the conference call and an interview later, Mr. Thompson said that it was too soon to discuss any strategic shifts he might make. But he said Yahoo had to innovate and improve its offerings for both consumers and advertisers. ''That balancing is what we need at Yahoo,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''That is how big businesses with network effects are built on the Internet.''
Yet when a company's momentum wanes, the same snowballing effect can make recovery unusually difficult. Mr. Thompson acknowledged that challenge, but said the trend was reversible at Yahoo, without describing the path to recovery.
''The core business assets are stronger than people believe at this point,'' he said. ''We can turn the network effects in our favor as opposed to against us.''
Mr. Thompson began meeting with Yahoo board members in November, he said. And the more he looked at the company, whose Silicon Valley offices in Sunnyvale, Calif., are a few miles from PayPal, based in San Jose, Mr. Thompson said, the more he became convinced that Yahoo's problems were fixable and that he could do it, despite his lack of experience with online media and advertising.
''There is really a lot here, a lot of upside,'' he said. ''And it's clear what I need to learn at an accelerated pace.''
The appointment of a new chief executive, Mr. Bostock said, will not slow down Yahoo's current negotiations to sell off most of its stakes in China's Alibaba Group and Yahoo Japan to its Asian partners. If a deal is reached, it would involve a complicated asset swap and cash payments from Alibaba and Softbank -- and bring Yahoo as much as $10 billion in cash to invest to reinvigorate its main business in the United States, people briefed on the talks said.
But a new chief executive, analysts say, does make it less likely that Yahoo will be sold to private equity investors. When asked during the conference call about that, Mr. Bostock said, ''I do not envision us not being a public company going forward.''
Since Ms. Bartz left, Yahoo has been run by Tim Morse. He will now return to his former post as chief financial officer.
Yahoo shares on Wednesday fell 3 percent, to close at $15.78.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Thompson, Yahoo's next chief, has a background primarily in technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (78%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); SPORTS REVENUES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (62%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (91%); PAYPAL INC (84%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT L THOMPSON (90%); CAROL BARTZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



178 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Productive and Popular, but Facing a Challenge in Remaining So

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo knows he is bound to come back to earth.
After an unusually productive first year in office that made him one of the nation's most popular governors, his challenge in 2012 is maintaining momentum.
Referring to his sky-high popularity -- 68 percent of New York voters approved of his job performance in a recent Quinnipiac University poll -- Mr. Cuomo said in an interview Wednesday, shortly after delivering his State of the State address, ''Seventy percent I don't believe is a sustainable level of popularity in this state.'' 
''Given the diversity of the state, the partisanship, the party enrollment, it's just an absurdly high level,'' he said. ''That's why I've always taken it with a grain of salt. Forget the number, I think people feel good that the government is working, and that's what that number reflects basically, and I hope to keep them in a place where they're feeling good.''
Mindful of the political risks if his momentum slows, Mr. Cuomo exhorted lawmakers in his nearly hourlong speech to ignore cynics who say ''what happened last year was a fluke, you can't do that again, that was for whatever reason, the stars, the planets, it was a one-time situation.''
''Last year we learned how to walk,'' he told lawmakers and the gathered audience, which included Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the governor's girlfriend, the Food Network star Sandra Lee. This year, he said, ''we're going to run.''
But Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat who is already talked about as a possible presidential candidate in 2016, outlined a plan for 2012 that was more pragmatic than visionary, combining soaring rhetoric about New York's greatness with plans for rebuilding bridges, creating commissions, opening casinos and restoring Buffalo. His top-line proposal would have made Robert Moses proud -- Mr. Cuomo wants to build the nation's largest convention center at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens.
''Last year, in many ways the high-profile accomplishments dealt with social justice issues and legislation addressing social justice issues,'' he said. ''This year, the relevant set of challenges are economic development and making the state function to generate jobs in partnership with the private sector. They are apples and oranges.''
Whether one agrees with him or not, Mr. Cuomo accomplished a lot in his first year. He persuaded a Republican-led Senate to endorse same-sex marriage. He reached a deal with the Legislature to approve a property tax cap. He closed a $10 billion budget deficit in March without tax increases, and then last month appeared to bow to the Occupy movement by creating higher tax brackets for the rich while lowering tax rates for the middle class. He largely tamed the Legislature, which appeared ungovernable during the brief Spitzer and Paterson administrations, so quieting it that at times Albany's rule by ''three men in a room'' -- the governor and legislative leaders -- seemed reduced to one.
Mr. Cuomo also demonstrated some of the other characteristics that have surfaced over the course of his political career, including a penchant for operating in secret and an eagerness to stamp out even seemingly minor perceived threats. If a voter blinked last month, he or she would have missed the governor's speedy revision of the state's tax code, without public input or legislative debate. He resisted for seven months before releasing his daily schedules to The New York Times -- a type of document his predecessors had agreed to release. And his administration went to some length to forestall Occupy Albany demonstrators from camping near the Capitol, creating a curfew to keep them from staying overnight at a state-owned park.
But, even if Mr. Cuomo faces the challenge of following up on his own first act, he also has the advantage of taking office after four chaotic years in Albany.
''If the government is functioning, if we're not fighting, if it looks like a professional, competent operation, that's what they are responding to,'' he said of voters.
Sitting in his office during the interview, he brandished a copy of ''The Happy Warrior,'' a book Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote about Gov. Alfred E. Smith, and cited the description of Mr. Smith's governing style to explain why he has assiduously courted a maligned Legislature.
''He says in here, F.D.R. talking about Al Smith, that the test of an executive is the ability to get things done with a legislature,'' he said, while thumbing through pages looking for an apt quote. ''An executive, in part, rises or falls on his ability to get things done with the legislature. That's my job.''
While still nosing through the book, Mr. Cuomo fielded one last question: Will he be in Iowa in four years, when the next presidential caucuses are held?
''You think I'm going to move and become a farmer?'' he replied, gamely. ''Not only are my ratings going to plummet, they're going to plummet to the point I have to flee the state. You would love that story, 'Former governor flees the state!' ''
''I'm focused on being the governor of the State of New York,'' he said, smiling. ''If you get past your cynicism for a second, you would understand that. I have been doing things and pursuing things that I would not if I were thinking about running for president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo at his State of the State address. ''I think people feel good that the government is working,'' he said later. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (64%); CASINOS (64%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); BUDGETS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



179 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: A Convention Center at Aqueduct Is Urged

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
One of Manhattan's most desirable real-estate assets was at the center of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's proposal Wednesday to build the country's largest convention center at a racetrack-casino in Queens.
A new 3.8-million-square-foot exhibition hall and hotel at the Aqueduct racetrack in Jamaica, Queens, would free up 18 windswept acres owned by the state overlooking the Hudson River in Midtown Manhattan, a site occupied since the 1980s by the much- maligned Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. 
The land could fetch billions of dollars from developers, say state officials, urban planners and real estate executives. That could plug budget gaps and pay for expensive projects, like expanding Pennsylvania Station.
''The Javits site is worth $4 billion,'' said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. ''You can release that value and use it for the long-term advantage of city and state. All by itself, the convention center in Queens becomes the biggest urban development project in the country.''
Still, the question is whether the Queens project makes sense, experts said. The convention business is highly competitive, and attendance is falling around the country. Most convention centers are run by public authorities at a deficit.
Mr. Cuomo said the Javits center, which is in the middle of a $500 million renovation, no longer belongs in Manhattan, where it is too small to compete for the large trade shows now going to convention centers in Chicago, Orlando and Las Vegas.
Under Mr. Cuomo's proposal, the state would forge a joint venture with the Genting Group, the Malaysian company that has invested $800 million in opening a gambling hall at Aqueduct. Genting, not the state, would finance a $4 billion convention center, with a hotel and expanded gambling space, while the government would contribute the land in Queens.
''This will bring to New York the largest events, driving demand for hotel rooms and restaurant meals and creating tax revenues and jobs, jobs, jobs,'' Mr. Cuomo said in his State of the State speech. ''In addition to the new convention space, up to 3,000 hotel rooms will be developed. We will make New York the No. 1 convention site in the nation.''
After the Javits center is demolished, the state would develop a master plan for housing, hotels and museums on the site, between 34th and 40th Streets and west of 11th Avenue, and sell or lease the land to developers.
The Javits center has always been busy, but mainly with trade shows that attract patrons from the New York region, rather than conventioneers who book hotel rooms and spend a lot of money in Manhattan.
Over the past two decades, many cities have built exhibition halls or expanded existing convention centers in the hope of attracting professional associations and similar groups, whose attendees typically spend four or five days in a city. But competition, the recession and videoconferencing have taken a toll.
Heywood Sanders, professor of public administration at the University of Texas and an expert on convention center economics, said he doubted that the Queens plan would succeed.
''The convention business is a disaster everywhere,'' Professor Sanders said. ''Simply building more space gets you nothing more than a big empty building. And to put it in a place where there aren't any hotels, restaurants or amenities next door is to doom it to serving only a local or metropolitan market.''
But New York City officials said they could lure more conventions with a larger hall. ''It's absolutely appropriate for the Queens economy -- trying to maximize the benefits of being home to two international airports,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City. ''It would have terrific benefits for the borough and the city economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An illustration of the proposed $4 billion exhibition hall, hotel and expanded casino at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARQUITECTONICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); GAMING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CITIES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



180 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A Fight for Post Offices and Towns' Souls

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
FOX, Ark. -- People over a certain age here remember what happened to Mozart.
It sat there perfectly content for years, a little community on a crooked mountain road in the southern Ozarks. Then one day they closed the post office. Now Mozart is a place on the road where only those who knew it was there would know it was there. The same thing happened with Newnata, Rushing and Cozahome.
But if the people in Fox have a say, it will not happen again, at least not here.
''There are those who have been downtrodden so long, they can't get back up,'' said Stanley Morrison, 59, a logger and a justice of the peace here in rural Stone County. ''And there are others who've been downtrodden so long they decide to fight back.'' 
Along with the residents of other tiny towns across the country, from Challenge, Calif., to Economy, Ind., the people of Fox learned last summer that their post office was being studied for possible closing by the United States Postal Service. It was one of the more than 3,600 deemed by the postal authorities to have too little a workload -- less than $27,500 annual revenue is one such measurement -- or to be too close to another office to justify keeping open by an agency that is billions of dollars in debt and facing a steeply and steadily declining revenue stream.
The response, here as elsewhere, has been swift. Letters have been sent, petitions drawn up. People have taken day trips to their representatives' offices, bringing so much political pressure that Congress persuaded the Postal Service last month to declare a moratorium on the closings until May.
Still, McKinney Boyd, a spokesman for the Postal Service, said the process would pick right back up at the end of the moratorium.
''We understand that many people in small communities are extremely passionate about their post offices, but at the same time we're losing more than $23 million a day,'' he said. ''With those kinds of losses, the Postal Service has to look at ways to offset its expenses.''
The residents of Fox are planning to pick right back up where they left off, too.
The resistance movement here has been led by Renee Carr, the director of the Rural Community Alliance, a nonprofit group. She has filed public-records requests, badgered elected officials, made a YouTube video and created a chart of the local post office's revenues, which, she says, is more accurate than the figures she managed to obtain, at long last and with the help of a United States senator, from the postal authorities.
She has been joined in her campaign by a dogged brigade of retired postmasters, waging similar fights in little communities and four-building towns across Arkansas, where roughly a third of post offices are on the list of possible closings.
Over in Tilly, a no-stoplight community where the post office sits in the back corner of Fountain Grocery, residents created a fact-filled PowerPoint presentation and prepared for a visit by the postal authorities with a series of dry-runs at the church.
''I don't remember an issue where we had to pull together like this,'' said Charlene Fountain, whose mother was the postmaster until her sister took over.
The people of tiny Ida, which was on an early list of closings, came together and filed a formal appeal, helped in their data gathering by the longtime but recently retired postmaster. In Prim, residents are considering a fund-raiser so that they can hire a lawyer if an appeal becomes necessary.
The campaigners mount their defense of the rural post office on practical grounds, as the place where the elderly have their medications sent, where those living on remote mountain roads far outside town keep a letter box, where the Pentecostals who do not look kindly on computers conduct much of their business and where postmasters discreetly read letters for the customers who are unable to do so themselves. These arguments are bolstered by what data they can get their hands on. While Ms. Carr and others acknowledge that rural post offices generally run at a deficit, they take issue with the calculations used by the Postal Service to make its decisions about closings -- a criticism also raised by the Postal Regulatory Commission in a recent report.
The deeper anxiety is an existential one. Prim, Tilly, Ida, Fox -- all of these communities were named into existence decades ago, and in some cases more than a century ago, by a postmaster. While the postal authorities insist that there will be alternatives to stand-alone offices -- for example, an outdoor bank of boxes -- residents fear that places that began with post office buildings would simply cease to exist with their departure.
''I haul logs and I see a lot of the country,'' Mr. Morrison said. ''The places that have lost their post offices have just died.''
The letter-writing campaigns have gotten the right attention. Even Republican members of Congress who came into office on the wave of fiscal hawkishness in 2010, like Senator John Boozman and Representative Rick Crawford, are coming to the defense of the rural post office.
Mr. Boozman, in an interview, raised the same concerns echoed by his constituents and the Postal Regulatory Commission: that the closing process has been frustratingly opaque. ''It appears that their method so far has been pretty arbitrary,'' he said.
The lack of clarity has given rise to suspicion in areas unaccustomed to rancor but now in a fight for survival. Talk of politics, friends with connections, even Masonic conspiracies has surfaced to explain why one office made the list and another, remoter one inexplicably did not.
Mr. Boozman has even proposed legislation that would ban the closing of any post office if the nearest one is more than 10 miles away. ''There are times when it's not as profitable,'' he said, explaining this apparent departure from small-government orthodoxy, ''but it's important to provide that service.''
The politics here are obvious, said Steve Brawner, a columnist for The Arkansas News Bureau, as anything contributing to the decline of rural America, like school consolidation, is especially difficult to take in a state like Arkansas.
But Mr. Brawner argued in a November column that the Postal Service's dire fiscal challenges, like others the nation is facing, mean that nobody will be able to get everything they want.
''People make choices about where they live and how they navigate their lives,'' he wrote. ''Congress should let the Postal Service make choices as well, like any business would when times change and it starts losing money.''
Those fighting for their post offices said that they would be willing to pay more for postage or give up mail on Saturday, or even every other day, to keep their buildings. They even say that it makes sense to close some offices -- if not theirs.
What galls many, though, is the argument made by the Postal Service that the Internet is killing the traditional mail service. That may be so, they say, but it is in the very places facing the closings where it is least so.
''We were going to use the Internet to get bulk postage,'' said Jane Carlton, a member of Prim's five-woman committee to save the post office, describing their effort to begin a letter-writing campaign. ''But no one could figure it out how to do it.''
So, she said, they got in their cars and spent an afternoon taking the letters door to door.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some post offices in Arkansas, like the ones in Tilly, top left
Prim, top right
Ida, above
and Fox, left
 are being studied for possible closing by the Postal Service. But residents are fighting back to save what they see as their communities' lifelines. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Fox learned last summer that its post office might be closed. (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PETITIONS (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



181 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Pushes Job Creation In 2012 Plan

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, vowing to revive New York's stagnant economy, on Wednesday unveiled more than a dozen initiatives aimed at creating jobs across the state, including building the nation's largest convention center in Queens and offering $1 billion in incentives to lure companies to Buffalo.
Delivering his second annual State of the State address to a crowd of more than 2,000 in a convention hall at the Empire State Plaza, Mr. Cuomo proposed to employ New Yorkers in new jobs repairing bridges and state parks, erecting power transmission lines and at Las Vegas-style casinos.
After a freshman year in which the governor tried to stabilize a divided and scandal-ridden Capitol, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, told lawmakers it was time to harness their newfound comity and mount a more ambitious effort to drum up business in New York. 
''This program will make a major impact on the trajectory of this state's economy if we get it done,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''And the people of this state desperately need it.''
Mr. Cuomo's address came less than a month after he called lawmakers back to Albany to approve a new, higher tax bracket for the highest-earning New Yorkers that he said was necessary to get the state's finances through trying economic times. The state still faces a $2 billion budget gap in its next fiscal year, which begins April 1, and the governor must come up with a plan within the next two weeks to close that gap.
His speech -- in which he outlined numerous goals, including expanding the state's database of criminals' DNA and ending fingerprinting for food stamp applicants -- marked a change from his approach last year, when he succeeded by persuading lawmakers to embrace a small handful of clearly articulated priorities, particularly measures capping property tax increases and legalizing same-sex marriage.
But Mr. Cuomo has insisted in recent months that the state, with an unemployment rate that stood at 8 percent in November, cannot simply wait for the national economy to improve. His hourlong speech offered an assortment of proposals that seek to reverse some of the impact of the national economic slowdown.
Mr. Cuomo threw his support behind the construction of a 3.8-million-square-foot convention center at the Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, as a joint venture with a subsidiary of the gambling company Genting Group, which in October opened a casino with electronic games at the racetrack. And he said it was time to begin the process of amending the state's Constitution to allow for full-fledged resort-style casinos developed off Indian land, given the proliferation of gambling on Indian land and in neighboring states.
''We are surrounded by gaming,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''And for us, this is not about chips and cards. This is about the jobs that the casino industry generates.''
At the same time, he proposed private redevelopment of the land now occupied by the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan, and he vowed to set aside $1 billion in economic incentives to draw businesses to Buffalo, the state's second-largest city and long an economically depressed area. The governor's office said the nature of the incentives for Buffalo, and how they would be financed, had not yet been determined.
He detailed a far-reaching infrastructure program, which would be highlighted by the construction of a new Tappan Zee Bridge financed in part by investments from labor union pension funds. He also proposed to accelerate scores of other public works projects for which the government has already sought financing. Under his plan, 48 state parks and historic sites would be improved, more than 100 bridges would be repaired or replaced, and 2,000 miles of roads would be refurbished.
''It all comes down to one word: jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''That's what people need in this state, and that's the focus of this plan.''
Mr. Cuomo also said he would wade into several thorny political issues. He called for lawmakers to approve a system of public financing for campaigns as well as lower campaign contribution limits.
On education, Mr. Cuomo declared himself ''the students' lobbyist'' and said he would appoint a bipartisan commission to recommend reforms in the contentious areas of teacher evaluation and management efficiency.
He also repeated his call for the reduction of retirement benefits for future public workers, which drew an immediate rebuke from union leaders.
''The ability to attract good workers will be important if the governor seeks to pursue his ambitious agenda,'' said Kenneth Brynien, president of the Public Employees Federation. ''The governor's proposal for a new pension tier is like eating your seed corn. It may help you get by now, but you will starve later.''
But Mr. Cuomo's message of job creation lined up tightly with what many lawmakers said they were hoping to hear.
The Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, declared that ''job growth is the long-term solution to our budget problems,'' and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said his top priority would be getting economic help to the working poor. Mr. Silver called for lawmakers to raise New York's minimum wage to at least $8 an hour from $7.25, saying it was ''absurd'' to think a family could live on that sum, and named several states, including Massachusetts and Connecticut, that he said had higher minimum wages.
''We should be leading the pack, not lagging behind it,'' Mr. Silver said.
The governor's economic focus drew plaudits from beyond the Capitol. Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, praised him ''for using this moment of economic challenge as an opportunity to launch long-discussed but rarely acted-on projects.''
Michael Kink, the executive director of the labor-supported Strong Economy for All Coalition, said Mr. Cuomo deserved credit for ''responding to the broad public anger about lack of action on jobs'' with concrete ideas.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who attended the speech, called Mr. Cuomo's convention center proposal a ''great idea'' and said redeveloping the Javits center site would fit in well with construction projects, including Hudson Yards, that are already under way on the West Side.
''I liked his focus on the economy and on job creation; that is really what this state needs, and New York City as well,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''It's a challenge to all of us to put our nose to the grindstone and actually do the work.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); GAMING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); APPROVALS (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); SCANDALS (69%); FINGERPRINTING (68%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



182 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Charges Against Journalists Dim the Democratic Glow in Turkey

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY and SEBNEM ARSU

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- A year ago, the journalist Nedim Sener was investigating a murky terrorist network that prosecutors maintain was plotting to overthrow Turkey's Muslim-inspired government. Today, Mr. Sener stands accused of being part of that plot, jailed in what human rights groups call a political purge of the governing party's critics.
Mr. Sener, who has spent nearly 20 years exposing government corruption, is among 13 defendants who appeared in state court this week at the imposing Palace of Justice in Istanbul on a variety of charges related to abetting a terrorist organization.
The other defendants include the editors of a staunchly secular Web site critical of the government and Ahmet Sik, a journalist who has written that an Islamic movement associated with Fethullah Gulen, a reclusive cleric living in Pennsylvania, has infiltrated Turkey's security forces. 
At a time when Washington and Europe are praising Turkey as the model of Muslim democracy for the Arab world, Turkish human rights advocates say the crackdown is part of an ominous trend. Most worrying, they say, are fresh signs that the government of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is repressing freedom of the press through a mixture of intimidation, arrests and financial machinations, including the sale in 2008 of a leading newspaper and a television station to a company linked to the prime minister's son-in-law.
The arrests threaten to darken the image of Mr. Erdogan, who is lionized in the Middle East as a powerful regional leader who can stand up to Israel and the West. Widely credited with taming Turkey's military and forging a religiously conservative government that marries strong economic growth with democracy and religious tolerance, he has proved prickly and thin-skinned on more than one occasion. It is that sensitivity bordering on arrogance, human rights advocates say, that contributes to his animus against the news media.
There are now 97 members of the news media in jail in Turkey, including journalists, publishers and distributors, according to the Turkish Journalists' Union, a figure that rights groups say exceeds the number detained in China. The government denies the figure and insists that with the exception of four cases, those arrested have all been charged with activities other than reporting.
Turkey's justice minister, Sadullah Ergin, last month blamed civic groups for creating the false impression that there were too many journalists in jail in Turkey. He said a new plan to enhance freedom of expression this year would alter perceptions.
In court on Wednesday, a defiant Mr. Sener, looking gaunt and pale, blamed the police officials he had investigated for setting him up. ''It has been 11 months that I have not been given the chance to utter a single word to defend myself,'' he said, speaking to friends during a brief intermission. ''I have been a victim in a revenge operation -- nothing else.''
The European Human Rights Court received nearly 9,000 complaints against Turkey for breaches of press freedom and freedom of expression in 2011, compared with 6,500 in 2009. In March, Orhan Pamuk, a Turkish writer and Nobel laureate, was fined about $3,670 for his statement in a Swiss newspaper that ''we have killed 30,000 Kurds and one million Armenians.''
Human rights advocates say they fear that with the Arab Spring lending new regional influence to Turkey, the United States and Europe are turning a blind eye to encroaching authoritarianism there. ''Turkey's democracy may be a good benchmark when compared with Egypt, Libya or Syria,'' said Hakan Altinay, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''But the whole region will suffer if Turkey is allowed to disregard the values of liberal democracy.''
Among the most glaring breaches of press freedom, human rights advocates say, was the arrest of Mr. Sener, 45, a German-born reporter who was working for the newspaper Milliyet at the time of his arrest. In 2010 he won the International Press Institute's World Press Freedom Hero award for his reporting on the murder of Hrant Dink, a prominent Turkish-Armenian journalist who was assassinated in Istanbul in 2007.
Mr. Sener said he believed that he was in jail because he dared to write a book criticizing the Turkish state's negligence in failing to prevent Mr. Dink's murder. His defense team says the prosecution's case rests on spurious evidence, including a file bearing his name that an independent team of computer engineers concluded had been mysteriously installed by a virus on a computer belonging to OdaTV, an antigovernment Web site. He was held for seven months without charges. If convicted, he faces up to 15 years in jail.
''Nedim Sener is being accused on the basis of rumors and fantasies,'' said his lawyer, Yucel Dosemeci. ''He is being targeted to create a culture of fear.''
In late December, Turkey drew fresh criticism after the police detained at least 38 people, many of them journalists, saying they had possible links to a Kurdish separatist group. But critics say dozens have been arrested whose only offense was to have expressed general support for the rights of Kurds, a long-oppressed minority here.
Over the past year, the government has been arresting prominent critics like Mr. Sener, as well as dozens of current and former military personnel, intellectuals and politicians who have been linked to what officials say was a plot to overthrow the government by an organization called Ergenekon.
Four years into the investigation, no one among the more than 300 suspects charged in the case has been convicted, even though courts have heard more than 8,000 pages worth of indictments, many of them based on transcripts of surreptitiously recorded private telephone conversations.
Advocates for press freedom say that the government has also moved to mute opposition by using punitive fines and by intimidating the ownership of leading media companies.
In a celebrated case in 2009, the Dogan media group, a large conglomerate, was saddled with a $2.5 billion fine by the Tax Ministry for unpaid taxes. Dogan officials say privately that the real reason was that its publications had given prominent attention to a series of corruption scandals involving senior government officials.
The European Union has expressed concerns about the chilling effect of the fine, which was negotiated down to about $621 million, officials familiar with the case say, as part of a tax amnesty issued last year.
Now, some journalists who work for the Dogan group say there is an unwritten rule not to criticize the governing party. Mr. Erdogan, who has previously called on his supporters to boycott the Dogan group, strongly denied any political motives behind the fine.
After Mr. Erdogan swept to power in 2002, human rights activists initially lauded him for expanding free speech. But after an unsuccessful attempt by the secular opposition to ban Mr. Erdogan's party in 2008, critics say, Mr. Erdogan embarked on a systematic campaign to silence his opponents.
They say the curbs on press freedom also reflect the fact that Turkey no longer feels obligated to adhere to Western norms at a time when it is playing the role of regional leader and its talks on joining the European Union are in disarray.
Mr. Sener and Mr. Sik were defiant in March as police officers took them into custody at their homes before television cameras. ''Whoever touches it gets burned!'' Mr. Sik shouted, referring to the Gulen movement, whose members, analysts say, have infiltrated the highest levels of the country's police and judiciary.
In March, the unpublished manuscript of Mr. Sik's book on the movement, ''The Army of the Imam,'' was confiscated by police officers. But the police were unable to stop its publication on the Internet, where at least 20,000 users downloaded it.
While the Internet has become the main weapon against censorship, more than 15,000 Web sites have been blocked by the state, according to engelliweb.com, which tracks restricted pages. For more than two years until last fall, YouTube was banned on the grounds that some videos on the site were insulting to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey.
The monitoring agency last summer called on Web sites to ban 138 words, including ''animal,'' ''erotic'' and ''zoo'' in English and ''fat,'' ''blonde'' and ''skirt'' in Turkish. It is a tribute to Turkey's still vibrant media culture that the prohibition inspired an online competition to create the best short story out of the banned words.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Istanbul last month denounced the detention of at least 38 people, many of them journalists, suspected, the police said, of ties to Kurdish separatists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ETTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); COUPS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); POLICE FORCES (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



183 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Vows New Push To Improve Education

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo says he is taking on a second job: lobbyist for students.
In his State of the State address on Wednesday, the governor pledged to wage a campaign to put students first because all of the other parties involved in public education -- from superintendents to maintenance workers and bus drivers -- have lobbyists promoting their interests. ''It's not about the business, it's not about the lobbyists,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''It's about the students, and the achievement, and we have to switch that focus.''
But in a speech devoted largely to job creation and economic development, Mr. Cuomo offered few details on how he planned to fight what he called the state's growing ''public education bureaucracy.'' 
As expected, Mr. Cuomo announced that he would convene an education commission this year to recommend reforms in two major areas: teacher accountability and student achievement, and management efficiency.
He said only that its members would be jointly appointed with the State Legislature, leaving many unanswered questions about the makeup of the commission and how it would operate.
Mr. Cuomo said the commission needed to find ways to advance a statewide teacher evaluation system, saying that a 2010 state law mandating such a system had not worked.
''Two years and it hasn't even started yet,'' the governor said. ''Our children deserve better than that, and hopefully they'll get it this year.''
A new teacher and principal evaluation system was outlined in New York's application to the federal Race to the Top program, which netted a $700 million grant, though efforts have stalled as some school districts and teachers' and principals' unions, including those in New York City, have been unable to agree on how to proceed.
Mr. Cuomo provided no examples of what he called management efficiency, and his aides declined to elaborate.
''Obviously, there's a need to address bureaucracy,'' said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers, representing nearly 300,000 teachers. ''But we didn't learn enough today about how he plans to address it. If the commission is just going to set up some arbitrary dates about arbitrary processes, that's only going to add more bureaucracy.''
Mr. Iannuzzi added that he disagreed with the governor's assessment of the law mandating the teacher evaluation system, saying it would take more time to reach agreements that would improve achievement and learning.
Elizabeth Ling, state director of Democrats for Education Reform, an advocacy group, said: ''It's essential that the governor structure the commission so that it can actually achieve real meaningful reform. It would be a squandered opportunity if he appointed the same bunch of hacks who helped create the current mess.''
Still, Robert Lowry, deputy director of the New York State Council of School Superintendents, said he supported the idea of a new commission because it could potentially spur a discussion about balancing public education costs and needs.
''There are a lot of people who would disagree with the governor's rhetoric and parts of his analysis, but would agree with the big picture,'' Mr. Lowry said. ''How do we produce more learning for students with the resources our taxpayers can provide?''
Mr. Cuomo, in his address, also proposed to expand a grant program created last year for State University of New York schools, calling them ''a precious jewel of this state.''
He said that 60 SUNY campuses would be able to compete for three $20 million grants to promote academic excellence and economic development in local communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



184 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Remain Steady Amid Europe's Debt Woes

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Major stock indexes were little changed in a low-volume session on Wednesday, but some investors were encouraged to see equities avoid a sell-off amid the euro zone's lingering debt problems.
Indexes held on to the previous day's large gains even as the euro dropped sharply against the dollar. Notably, American banks held up well, even though bad news in Europe centered on the difficulties for some European lenders.
Tight credit markets are making it expensive for European banks to raise capital and for euro zone countries to refinance debt. 
The latest sign of stress came from Italy's biggest bank, UniCredit, which fell nearly 10 percent after it offered to sell 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion) in shares at a steep discount to shore up its balance sheet. That level, in turn, could discourage other lenders from tapping the market to raise money.
UniCredit slumped 14.5 percent on Wednesday, the biggest blue-chip loser in Europe. A gauge of European bank shares dropped 1.6 percent, but in New York, the KBW bank index added 0.34 percent.
''Some of what's been going on in the last weeks is the U.S. is starting to delink from Europe,'' said Jim Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis.
''Not that we've totally isolated ourselves, but the fact you're seeing more days when the euro is off and the market here is up is evidence of some delinking,'' he said. ''If the U.S. economy is growing again, it's much less vulnerable to external shocks.''
Investors were encouraged by a sharp rise in new orders for factory goods in the United States in November, further evidence the economy was recovering.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.04 points, or 0.17 percent, to 12,418.42. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 0.24 point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,277.30. The Nasdaq dipped 0.36 point, or 0.01 percent, to 2,648.36.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 8/32, to 100 5/32. The yield rose to 1.98 percent, from 1.96 percent late Tuesday.
New-vehicle sales released on Wednesday showed that automakers ended the year with strong sales, but they forecast lower growth in 2012. G.M. shares rose 0.5 percent, to $21.15, while Ford added 1.5 percent, to $11.30.
Yahoo shares fell 3.1 percent to $15.78 after the company named the PayPal president, Scott Thompson, its chief executive.
AT&T agreed on Tuesday to pay TiVo a minimum of $215 million and additional monthly licensing fees to settle a patent infringement dispute. AT&T shares rose 0.16 percent, to $30.43, and TiVo jumped 10.1 percent, to $9.82.
But the euro and European stocks struggled as investors fretted about the region's debt crisis and more countries prepared to tap markets. The euro, which moved in lockstep with equities for most of the last quarter, slumped to its lowest level against the dollar in nearly a week.
The euro fell as much as 0.84 percent to $1.2941, within striking distance of its 2011 trough of $1.2858, hit in the last week of December. It closed at $1.2944 in New York on Wednesday.
''The market is still teetering between European concerns and better economic data here in the United States, so I'm not surprised to see this kind of volatility,'' said King Lip, chief investment officer at Baker Avenue Asset Management in San Francisco.
Crude oil future prices rose after European governments agreed in principle to ban imports of Iranian oil, dealing a blow to Tehran that crowns new Western sanctions months before an Iranian election. Oil settled at $103.28 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); BANK ROBBERY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); PATENTS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT L THOMPSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



185 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Ties to China Linger as Issue As Taiwanese Prepare to Vote

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
TAIPEI, Taiwan -- As he nears the end of his first term, President Ma Ying-jeou faces a litany of challenges that might sound familiar to Western politicians: stagnant wages, a growing wealth gap and steep housing prices that have frozen young urbanites out of the real estate market.
His main opponent in this month's elections has vowed to create well-paid jobs, 800,000 units of low-cost housing and more generous subsidies for retirees and farmers.
But when voters go to the polls on Jan. 14 -- only the fifth time they have done so since Taiwan threw off single-party rule in 1996 -- they will also be guided by their views on a separate, overwhelmingly important issue: whether this vibrantly democratic island of 23 million should speed, slow or halt its wary embrace of China. 
The calamitous mainland civil war that drove the defeated Nationalists here in 1949 left China and Taiwan in a formal state of war. China's singular aim is reunification, even if it requires military force, and each side has kept a wary eye on the other through decades of internal tumult. The question of their fraught relations -- culturally close, politically suspicious -- grow ever more urgent as China's wealth and regional influence expand, and ever more obvious as mainlander tourism here surges.
Mr. Ma, 61, a Nationalist, has overseen a raft of agreements that have revolutionized the way ordinary Chinese and Taiwanese interact. There are now direct flights, postal services and new shipping routes between Taiwan and the mainland, and a landmark free trade agreement has slashed tariffs on hundreds of goods.
The agreements opened the gates to the deluge of Chinese tourists -- 213,000 arrived in November, 30 percent more than in November 2010 -- who buoyed the local economy with more than $3 billion in spending last year. Other firsts include a pair of giant pandas from China, an early reward for Mr. Ma's Beijing-friendly gestures, and nearly 1,000 mainland students who now study at Taiwan universities.
The burst of contact has reawakened old sensitivities and raised new ones.
Nathan Batto, a political scientist at the Academia Sinica, a research institute in Taipei, said that the underlying issue for many voters was whether Taiwan could remain autonomous.
''The single question that frames all elections here is who we are and what do we want to be,'' he said. ''Should Taiwan get closer to China or keep its distance?''
The United States has not publicly weighed in on the race, but, privately, some officials have expressed unease over the candidacy of Mr. Ma's main opponent. She is Tsai Ing-wen, 55, an academic and former government minister whose Democratic Progressive Party has traditionally advocated formal independence. In the past, pushes for independence have irritated China and worried Washington, Taiwan's steadfast ally and its supplier of military hardware.
Beijing has not been coy in telegraphing its preference. At a recent news conference, a spokesman for its Taiwan Affairs Office said a victory for Ms. Tsai could ''inevitably threaten the peaceful development of cross-strait ties.''
In Taiwan, the welter of factions includes indigenous residents and descendents of the mainland Chinese who settled here decades, or even centuries, before the Nationalists arrived. Business-minded Taiwanese know where the money is: the million or so Taiwanese now working and investing in China appear to be backing the Nationalists and Mr. Ma.
''We certainly don't want to jeopardize the status quo,'' said Liu Chia-hao, a spokesman at Taipei 101, an iconic green-glass tower that dominates the Taipei horizon. Mr. Liu said that mainland visitors packing the building's observatory and high-end shops helped the $1.8 billion project break even three years early.
''We'd like this vibe to continue,'' he said.
Even in some of Ms. Tsai's party's traditional bases of support, like the largely ethnic Taiwanese population of southern Pingtung County where she was born, are tilting toward the Nationalists. Since 2008, mainland officials, encouraged by Mr. Ma's new trade policies, have been offering princely sums for every last mango, banana and orchid the Pingtung farmers grow.
''President Ma promised he would open agricultural markets to China, and in his first month he did,'' said Cheng Cheng-ying, manager of the Taiwan Floriculture Exports Association.
Invoking the blue flag of the Nationalists and the green of Ms. Tsai's party, he said, ''If you ask my neighbors, they say they are green, but inside they have all become a little bit blue.''
But warming ties have also stoked deeply rooted fears, fanned by Ms. Tsai and her party, that the island is becoming too cozy with the authoritarian behemoth next door.
''Let's face it, China wants nothing more than to devour us, and the K.M.T. is giving us away,'' Zhou Zhu-zhen, a retired nurse, said last month during a rally, using an acronym for the Nationalists.
The race has been dominated by parochial concerns and mudslinging. Last week, Ms. Tsai and her surrogates accused the president of using the intelligence authorities to monitor her campaign illegally. The Ma camp has been raising questions about Ms. Tsai's role in a state-financed biotech company that yielded her handsome profits. Both have denied any wrongdoing.
On paper and in person, the two bear striking similarities. Educated abroad -- Mr. Ma at Harvard and New York University, and Ms. Tsai at Cornell and the London School of Economics -- they spent their early careers in academia. Both are reluctant campaigners, wonkish rather than telegenic. Each promises generous social spending and a city's worth of low-cost housing.
Polls suggest that they are in a statistical dead heat, with a third candidate, James Soong of the People's First Party, pulling roughly a tenth of the vote, mostly from the incumbent. Ms. Tsai hopes to prevail with her party's traditional supporters: besides the island's native Taiwanese and the farmers in the south, they include blue-collar workers who dream of a return to the 1990s, when Taiwan was a high-tech manufacturing powerhouse.
The front-runners dance gingerly around the issue of China. It emerges mostly in the form of debate on the so-called 1992 Consensus, a nebulous pact between Beijing and Nationalist Party leaders that allows both to recognize the principle of one China, bypassing uncomfortable details. Ms. Tsai, a former minister of the Mainland Affairs Council, which helps set cross-strait policy, says the arrangement is a fiction. She wants the voters to determine how Taiwan defines itself in future negotiations with China.
Although she has dialed down her party's stridency on independence, Ms. Tsai warns that Nationalist policies are eroding Taiwan's sovereignty. In an interview, she offered a simple example of distasteful compromise: ''When Chinese visitors come, we have to put away our flags,'' she said.
Mr. Ma waves off such complaints, saying that detente has strengthened the island's global standing.
Beijing has halted efforts to wrest away the few remaining countries that recognize Taiwan diplomatically, and has removed its longtime opposition to the island's participation in some international bodies. The last three years of calm across the straits, Mr. Ma said, have been good for the island and the region.
''Taiwan is no longer regarded as a troublemaker,'' Mr. Ma said in an interview, ''but as a force for peace.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tsai Ing-wen, top, and President Ma Ying-jeou, above, resemble each other in campaign styles, but not in stances on China. Video: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASHLEY PON/REUTERS
 PICHI CHUANG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLITICS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (68%); AIR SERVICE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



186 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: New Limits on Commodity Trades Are Approved, Despite Calls for a Delay

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
7:44 p.m. Updated
A divided Commodity Futures Trading Commission has rebuffed a request from Wall Street to delay new restrictions on speculative commodities trading.
The commission's decision, which was reached on Tuesday and announced on Wednesday, was split along party lines, with the three Democratic members voting to reject the request for a stay and the two Republican commissioners supporting the delay. The commission was likewise divided in October, when it adopted the so-called position limits rule, which would cap the number of futures contracts a trader can hold on 28 commodities, including oil and gas. 
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association had asked the commission to stay the enforcement of the position limits while the groups pursued a legal challenge of the new rule. The two lobbying groups filed a lawsuit against the commission last month in the Federal Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia, a move that escalated Wall Street's war against new regulations.
The commission's adoption of the position-limits rule, which is expected to take effect in part later this year, was seen as a crucial step in the Obama administration's effort to enforce the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory crackdown passed in response to the financial crisis.
''Congress was clear that we were to impose position limits promptly,'' Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner who championed the rule, said in a statement on Wednesday. He added that the denial of the stay request was ''a good step toward keeping the ball rolling, and getting these limits in place.''
A spokesman for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said the decision would not affect the group's broader legal challenge to the rule. ''We disagree with the C.F.T.C.'s denial of the stay request and look forward to presenting the issue to the D.C. Court of Appeals,'' said the organization's spokesman, Andrew DeSouza.
In the lawsuit, the two lobbying groups accused the agency of failing to adequately assess the economic effects of the rule. They also said that Dodd-Frank left it to regulators to enforce position limits ''as appropriate,'' arguing that, in essence, no limits were appropriate. Mr. Chilton has called this argument ''trying to dance on the head of a legal pin.''
The rule's supporters say it will help protect consumers from speculative commodities trading. While the financial industry has increased its speculation in the futures market over the last few years, the prices of the underlying commodities have fluctuated wildly. In turn, energy costs and food prices have risen, pinching consumers at the gas pump and the grocery store.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); FOOD PRICES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



187 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders Increase 1.8%

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Orders to American factories rose in November by the most in four months, showing that gains in manufacturing will help the economy grow. 
Bookings for factory goods rose 1.8 percent after a revised 0.2 percent drop the previous month, data from the Commerce Department showed Wednesday. Demand for aircraft, autos and metals compensated for a drop in computers and electronics.
Slowing demand for capital goods like computers is a sign that business investment will cool this year, reflecting concern over a slowdown in global growth and a less advantageous government tax credit.
''Manufacturing is holding up fairly well,'' said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa. ''Business investment has been very strong during this recovery, so some softening isn't surprising.''
Economists forecast factory orders would rise 2 percent, according to the median of 57 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
Orders for durable goods, or those meant to last at least three years, increased 3.7 percent. Demand for capital goods excluding aircraft and military equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 1.2 percent.
Bookings for commercial aircraft, a volatile category, jumped 74 percent after dropping 14 percent. Orders for computers and electronic products fell 4.3 percent.
Bookings for nondurable goods, including petroleum and chemicals, rose 0.3 percent, the report from the Commerce Department showed.
Inventories climbed 0.5 percent in November, indicating factories were ramping up production to restock warehouses.
Manufacturing in the United States grew in December at the fastest pace in six months, the Institute for Supply Management's factory index showed Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); FACTORY ORDERS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



188 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: A Cold Lesson In Fire Safety

BYLINE: By THOMAS GAFFNEY

 BODY:
THE Christmas Day fire that killed five people, including three children, in Stamford, Conn., has sent many homeowners scrambling to check their own safety equipment.
''We had a run on fire extinguishers like you wouldn't believe,'' said Marc Fogel, the owner of Karp's True Value there. Customers who were unnerved by the episode were also eager to buy smoke and carbon monoxide detectors, as well as escape ladders, he added.
''This is what shocks me: people who tell me that they don't have any smoke alarms,'' Mr. Fogel said. 
Lisa Stamatin, a manager at Keough's Hardware, described a similar rush.
Initial reports suggested the fire was caused by improperly discarded fireplace embers, which The Associated Press reported this week were removed so the children wouldn't worry about Santa Claus coming down the chimney.
Fire experts issued reminders that it is unnecessary to remove embers right away. ''There's no need to,'' said Tom Olshanski, a spokesman for the United States Fire Administration. ''Fireplaces are designed to handle embers and burning wood.''
Embers, he said, posed a bigger risk outside the fireplace because they still might be hot enough to ignite a flame long after the fire has died. ''The golden rule is, 24 hours after the fire, the embers will be cool enough to take out,'' Mr. Olshanski said, adding some new research suggested waiting three days.
After a fire has gone out, fireplace doors or metal mesh screens should be closed. He also stressed that chimney flues should be inspected annually, especially in older homes, because a flammable substance forms as brick and mortar deteriorate.
A more expensive safeguard -- one growing in popularity -- is a residential fire sprinkler system.
''Residential sprinklers, we know, are the next evolution,'' Mr. Olshanski said.
In Scottsdale, Ariz., half of the city's homes are equipped with these systems, the result of a rule change in 1986 governing new-home construction.
''In the first 15 years, we cut our fire fatalities in half,'' said Jim Ford, deputy chief and fire marshal of Scottsdale. And in the last 25 years, there has been only one death from a fire in a sprinklered home.
Prince George's County in Maryland enacted similar legislation in 1992, with similar benefits. The fire department said that nobody had died from a fire in a home with a sprinkler system, compared with more than 100 people who died in fires in homes without them.
''I think everyone genuinely agrees that sprinklers can help save lives in fires,'' said Brian J. Meacham, an associate professor in the department of fire protection engineering at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts. He said the larger debate was over the cost of installation and whether it should be voluntary or mandated by law.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency says the systems cost roughly $1.60 per square foot to install in new homes. That means the additional cost for a new home of an average size of 2,400 square feet would be about $3,800.
''My understanding is retrofitting costs at least twice that in new construction,'' said David T. Butry, an economist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology who studies the advantages and disadvantages of residential sprinklers.
Mr. Olshanski said he believed homeowners should take any steps they could to guard against life-threatening fires. ''We believe, in the fire service, that all fires are preventable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFTERMATH: The home in Stamford, Conn., overlooking Long Island Sound, where three girls and their grandparents died in a fire on Christmas morning. Reports suggested that improperly discarded fireplace embers caused the fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME SECURITY (90%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SMOKE DETECTORS (90%); FIRES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); CARBON MONOXIDE (71%); ENGINEERING (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HOUSING STARTS (62%); GAS SENSORS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); ARIZONA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



189 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Good Year For Autos, But a Test Waits in '12

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting

 BODY:
DETROIT -- American automakers last year posted their best sales since the financial crisis, earning healthy profits from better products amid a steady increase in demand for new cars.
But the road ahead for General Motors, Ford and Chrysler will be crowded with tougher competition from foreign automakers, as the relatively healthy American car market becomes an even bigger draw.
Japan's car companies are looking to rebound from natural disasters in Asia, and the debt crisis in Europe has automakers there looking to North America for more market share. Already, Nissan and Volkswagen have posted big sales gains in the United States for last year. 
Even with increased demand, the Detroit companies will be hard-pressed to maintain their combined 47 percent share of the market, up from 45 percent in 2010, analysts said.
''It is not going to be an easy task,'' said Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry analysis at the research Web site TrueCar.com. ''They did benefit from the misery of others in 2011.''
Auto sales in the United States surged in December for the seventh consecutive month, as the industry continued its methodical comeback from the depths of recession.
Sales rose 8.7 percent in December, and increased 10 percent for all of 2011 compared with the previous year.
With about 12.8 million vehicles sold, it was the industry's best year since 2008 -- although still well short of the 16 million annual sales level enjoyed before the recession.
The biggest beneficiaries of the increased demand were G.M., Ford and Chrysler. All three companies reported increases in market share in the same year for the first time in two decades, according to the automotive-research Web site Edmunds.com, which began tracking share numbers in 1991.
Because of their restructurings -- and in the case of G.M. and Chrysler government bailouts -- Detroit was solidly profitable, a fact that President Obama has sought to use to his political benefit as he seeks re-election this year.
The continued comeback of new-vehicle sales underscored that the United States remained the most profitable car market in the world.
''It's not the cash cow it once was, but it's still a mature and profitable market, as opposed to more volatile emerging markets, or stagnant ones in Europe,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the consulting firm IHS Automotive.
Analysts said consumers were spending more freely on new vehicles because their current cars were aging and financing options were more readily available.
Mr. Toprak estimated that leasing accounted for 25 percent of sales in 2011, more than double the level of two years earlier.
The Detroit automakers all reported increases during December. Chrysler, which had lagged the market a year ago, said its sales jumped 37.1 percent from the year-earlier period on the strength of new Jeeps and sedans. Sales at G.M. climbed 4.6 percent during the month, and Ford reported a 10.1 percent increase.
Among the foreign manufacturers, Volkswagen said its monthly sales increased 31.4 percent, Hyundai posted a 13.3 percent improvement and Nissan reported a 7.7 percent gain. Toyota said its sales were flat in December, while Honda reported an 18.8 percent drop.
The research firm J. D. Power & Associates said December was the first month in which sales to individual consumers -- a figure that excludes bulk deliveries to businesses and government buyers -- topped one million since the August 2009 spike during the federal cash-for-clunkers trade-in program.
''The industry has managed through another series of external shocks and is in a healthier position as the year closes,'' said John Humphrey, senior vice president for global automotive operations at J. D. Power.
Sales are expected to climb further this year. Edmunds.com is forecasting 2012 sales of 13.6 million, while TrueCar.com expects 13.8 million.
With the European economy floundering, most global automakers are putting more resources than ever into products for American consumers. Leading the way is Volkswagen, which introduced several revamped models last year and has big plans for more growth.
''We expect V.W. to be very aggressive in the U.S. market,'' said Mr. Toprak. ''Toyota and Honda will also likely gain back some of the share they have lost, but not all of it.''
Toyota and Honda lost sales last year because of supply constraints from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan as well as floods in Thailand. Their historic dominance in the small and midsize car segments also eroded because of the presence of more competitive models from the Detroit car companies.
Both Toyota and Honda vow, however, that their inventory problems are now behind them, and that a blitz of new products will lure shoppers back to their showrooms.
''I think we are extremely well positioned to show customers once again what we have to offer,'' said Jim Lentz, head of Toyota's sales operations in the United States.
A resurgence by foreign automakers will put pressure on the Detroit companies to hold on to their 2011 gains.
''We are forecasting for the Big Three all to lose some market share in the coming year,'' said Ms. Lindland. ''That's not to say, however, that they won't be profitable because they have restructured so dramatically.''
The American companies are hardly resting on their laurels, and will unveil a number of important new products next week at media previews of the annual auto show in Detroit.
G.M. is expected to show a new small Cadillac sedan and a little crossover vehicle from its Buick division. Chrysler plans to introduce the new Dodge Dart compact car, while Ford will take the wraps off a redesigned version of its midsize Fusion sedan.
There will also be plenty of foreign models competing for attention at the Detroit show.
''The selection of vehicles that consumers have to choose from is the best in the history of the U.S. industry,'' said Mr. Toprak. ''But it makes it that much harder for any one company to stand out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nissan vehicles arriving in the United States at the Port of Los Angeles in Wilmington, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM RUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
Stan Baer looks at a Ford Flex at a dealership in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Ford sales rose last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK ELIAS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Chevrolet Cruze
Honda Accord (B4) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (56%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TRUECAR INC (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



190 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: After Iowa, Obama Campaign Sharpens 2 Negative Portrayals of Romney

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bolstered in their view of Mitt Romney as their likeliest opponent, President Obama's campaign advisers gleefully skewered him on Wednesday as a ''weak front-runner'' in a narrowing Republican field and made clear they would cast him as out of touch with the concerns of middle-class Americans.
The day after Mr. Romney squeezed out a razor-thin victory in the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Obama's political brain-trust trained most of its fire on him, painting him as both a Wall Street 1 percent type and an unprincipled flip-flopper. How long the Obama campaign can condemn Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, on both counts is not clear, given that independent voters may view his protean tendencies as evidence of pragmatism. 
For now, Mr. Obama's advisers are playing up both elements, calculating that this approach will deepen Republicans' doubts about Mr. Romney's conservative credentials while scaring off moderates who fear he will espouse economic policies that favor wealthy people like him.
''Taking two positions on every fundamental issue doesn't make you a centrist; it makes you a charlatan,'' David Axelrod, the campaign's senior strategist, said in a conference call with reporters to discuss the Iowa results.
Mr. Axelrod and the campaign manager, Jim Messina, said Mr. Romney's nearly three-way tie with former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Representative Ron Paul of Texas showed that he had generated little enthusiasm among Republicans and had failed to dispel doubts among the party faithful that he would be an adequate standard-bearer.
Still, Mr. Axelrod brushed aside a question about how Mr. Obama would run against Mr. Santorum, should he knock Mr. Romney off his perch. And Mr. Messina said only that the campaign was ready to confront any candidate in the Republican crop.
Mr. Axelrod said Mr. Romney left Iowa in the same shape he entered it, as a ''weak front-runner.'' The caucuses, he said, hobbled two of his significant rivals, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and former Speaker Newt Gingrich. But the muddy result did not settle the issue of whether Republicans would yet coalesce around a conservative alternative -- Mr. Santorum, for example.
This failure, Mr. Axelrod said, came even after Mr. Romney ''redoubled'' his move to the right on issues like abortion and gay rights. And it came despite an avalanche of negative television ads paid for by a wealthy political action committee that supports Mr. Romney's positions and aimed at Mr. Gingrich, which devastated his campaign. Mr. Axelrod predicted that would be a blueprint for Mr. Romney in the primaries and the general election.
Like Mr. Romney, Mr. Obama is backed by well-financed political action committees, known as ''super PACs,'' which can broadcast commercials on his behalf. Mr. Axelrod did not rule out commercials that would go after Mr. Romney, but he insisted that the campaign would not engage in ''gratuitous unfounded attacks.''
The bigger conundrum for the Obama campaign is how to balance its two lines of criticism of Mr. Romney, particularly if he wins the nomination.
Do they go the out-of-touch, protector-of-Wall-Street route or the flip-flopper route?
In one portrayal, he is the greedy Wall Street type: witness the Democrats' display in Iowa last weekend of a worker who was laid off from a company that had been restructured by Bain Capital on Mr. Romney's watch.
The other picture paints him as the weathervane-watcher who was for Roe v. Wade before he was against it, who said he believed that humans contributed to global warming before he said he was not so sure, and who said he was glad Mr. Obama was ''copying'' parts of his Massachusetts health reform before he said he would seek to repeal the president's health-care overhaul.
But there is a kink in that approach. Independent voters might view Mr. Romney's shifting positions as pragmatic. And by highlighting his evolving views, political analysts say, the Obama campaign risks unintentionally promoting the image of Mr. Romney as a moderate.
The very things that have made Mr. Romney less palatable to the conservatives who populate the Republican primaries and caucuses -- his past moderate positions -- are what make him more palatable to the independent voters who will turn up next November.
''It's one of the principal reasons why he runs better than the other Republican candidates'' when matched up against Mr. Obama, said Andrew Kohut, the president of the Pew Research Center. ''One could argue that seeing Romney as not taking strong positions might be an argument on his behalf.''
Are American voters that calculating?
''Possibly,'' said John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University. Like Mr. Kohut, Mr. Sides said American voters reacted negatively to candidates they perceived as ideologically extreme. ''It might be more effective to concentrate on the conservatism,'' he argued.
Mr. Axelrod and Mr. Messina did not show their hand on Wednesday. But there are signs that the narrative of Mr. Romney as wealthy and ultraconservative is gaining favor within the Obama campaign.
On Wednesday evening, the campaign's spokesman, Ben LaBolt, issued a statement noting Mr. Romney was against the appointment of Richard Cordray as the head of a new consumer protection board. Mr. Romney, he said, ''today stood with predatory lenders and Republicans in Congress over the middle class.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); JIM MESSINA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK PERRY (57%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



191 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Romney Showing Financial Muscle For Next Round

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Erik Eckholm contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney flew here Wednesday, displaying his financial and organizational muscle in New Hampshire against the upstart candidacy of Rick Santorum, who was seeking to use his near-victory in the Iowa caucuses to become the standard-bearer of a conservative insurgency.
After a round of morning television show appearances and a ride in a Boeing 737 packed with reporters, Mr. Romney headed for a high school gymnasium where he accepted the endorsement of a onetime bitter rival, Senator John McCain. He also showed off his network of support in the state, where the nation's first primary takes place Tuesday, appearing with former Gov. John H. Sununu and Senator Kelly Ayotte, an indication of how the Republican establishment was rallying to his side.
''Do we think we can get more than an eight-vote margin here in New Hampshire?'' he asked the crowd, a joking reference to his remarkably slim margin of victory in Iowa.
The results there led Representative Michele Bachmann to announce Wednesday that she was dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination, aiding Mr. Santorum's effort to emerge as the conservative challenger to Mr. Romney. But Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, after initially signaling that he would drop out, reversed course on Wednesday and said he would compete in the South Carolina primary on Jan. 21. 
As Mr. Romney toured New Hampshire, his campaign pressed its advantage over Mr. Santorum, expanding his advertising from here and South Carolina into Florida, where commercial time is relatively expensive -- the kind of move that Mr. Santorum cannot afford.
Mr. Santorum's smaller campaign struggled to keep up with its newfound top-tier status.
While Mr. Romney dominated the day-after-Iowa news coverage with his victory lap here, Mr. Santorum and his staff were slowly making the 1,400-mile journey from Des Moines in a King Air propeller plane that did not deliver them here until suppertime, too late to make a star turn on the evening news. He made a nighttime turn on Fox News and CNN and landed in time for a rally that drew hundreds.
But behind the scenes, Mr. Santorum's aides were busily wooing the leaders of the coalition of social conservatives, Tea Party supporters and budget hawks who have resisted Mr. Romney's candidacy. Some of those conservative leaders were now discussing among themselves whether Mr. Santorum could be the one candidate they can coalesce around -- and whether he was truly viable against the machine that is Mr. Romney's campaign.
Michael Biundo, Mr. Santorum's campaign manager, said he was in the process of hiring a national coalition coordinator to help bring the conservative movement's disparate elements together.
''We're gearing up to run a national campaign,'' Mr. Biundo said in an interview. ''Two weeks ago everyone was saying that we were going to come in dead last in Iowa. We're just going to keep working hard and doing our job.''
More importantly, Mr. Santorum's aides said he raised $1 million on Wednesday, significantly more than his campaign had raised in the past several months. Rivals noted that even at that rate he would be far behind Mr. Romney, given that he starts from close to zero in campaign terms.
That does not, however, take into account the Red, White and Blue Fund, a ''super PAC'' that is financed by unlimited contributions from wealthy individuals supporting Mr. Santorum. The group, which is barred from direct coordination with the Santorum campaign but is otherwise free to back him or attack rivals, is run by Nick Ryan, a former director of the American Future Fund, which spent $25 million to defeat Democrats in the 2010 midterm elections.
Mr. Ryan said the group would begin running commercials on television on Thursday in South Carolina, whose primary is 11 days after New Hampshire's. He said donations had been pouring in since Mr. Santorum's near-win in Iowa.
''It's been our biggest day that we ever had,'' he said. ''We'll be able to have the funds to be very effective.''
Mr. Romney's supporters have quietly noted that one person is all it takes to infuse the group with enough cash to make Mr. Santorum suddenly better financed. On Wednesday one potential such donor, Foster Friess, a wealthy money manager who supports Christian and conservative causes -- and Mr. Santorum -- said he was game to help finance the group.
''This guy says everything that needs to be said,'' Mr. Friess said, adding that he likes Mr. Santorum's positions on national security and the economy and his authorship of a bill to mandate that doctors give medical treatment to fetuses injured in botched abortions. Asked if he would say how much he would donate, he replied, ''I'd like to say yes, but I don't want my wife to find out.''
With Mr. Santorum's showing in Iowa on Tuesday night, and the strong third-place finish by Representative Ron Paul of Texas, the Republican contest was reset as the race moved to New Hampshire. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich belittled Mr. Romney, declaring: ''The idea that he's electable is just silly.''
The high-profile endorsement from Mr. McCain drew a snarl from Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor, who has been campaigning aggressively in New Hampshire but skipped Iowa. He sought to turn Mr. Romney's establishment strength against him.
''You can get all the Doles and all the McCains in the world, as Romney probably will,'' Mr. Huntsman said, referring to former Senator Bob Dole, the party's nominee in 1996, who has also backed Mr. Romney. ''But in the end, who cares?''
Mrs. Bachmann of Minnesota bowed out of the race after a sixth-place finish in Iowa that showed her inability to win over more of the social conservatives who provided the base of her support. Mr. Perry said he would be on hand at two weekend debates in New Hampshire, before going to South Carolina to wage what could be his last stand.
Mr. Romney's aides expressed satisfaction that multiple candidates would be competing for the anti-Romney vote in South Carolina, which consists largely of Tea Party activists and religious conservatives, groups that Mr. Santorum is now trying to unite behind him.
Several major evangelical groups have held at least four gatherings to discuss the presidential race, and have found no consensus on which candidate to back. The next of those meetings -- first reported in Politico -- is scheduled in less than two weeks at the ranch of Paul Pressler, a conservative former judge in Texas.
The rise of Mr. Santorum has prompted some conservative leaders to take a second look at his candidacy, but skepticism remains about his ability to build a national organization.
''What Santorum did in Iowa was to give people an excuse to re-evaluate whether they think he can win or not,'' said Gary L. Bauer, a participant at the meetings and a Republican presidential candidate in 2000 who is president of the conservative group American Values. ''The race is far from over. People are trying to sort out who is the most conservative nominee who can also win the nomination.''
Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council, said some social conservatives were still smarting over their failure four years ago to coalesce around Mike Huckabee, who won the Iowa caucuses then with a coalition that resembles the one that propelled Mr. Santorum on Tuesday.
''In hindsight,'' Mr. Perkins said, ''if we had gotten behind Huckabee, maybe that could have made a difference.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Outlook For Candidates In First Primaries (Sources: Campaign Media Analysis Group at Kantar Media) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); RICK PERRY (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); KELLY AYOTTE (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



192 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: McCain Backs Romney After Santorum's Surge in Iowa

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by A.G. Sulzberger in Alton, Iowa; Susan Saulny in Clive, Iowa; and Dalia Sussman and Allison Kopecki in New York.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Mitt Romney marked his arrival in New Hampshire on Wednesday with an endorsement by Senator John McCain, one of the state's favorite adopted sons. The endorsement came a day after Mr. Romney won the Iowa caucuses by a mere eight votes and helped Mr. Romney consolidate his support among the Republican establishment.
''New Hampshire is the state that will catapult him onto victory in a very short period of time,'' Mr. McCain declared to applause at a rally here. Mr. McCain, who was the party's nominee in 2008, gave a fiery speech against President Obama in what sounded like a reprise of that campaign.
Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney, archrivals four years ago, strode onto the stage at Central High School in Manchester to the theme of ''Top Gun.'' Mr. Romney hailed the outcome of the Iowa caucuses, declaring, ''My goodness, but what a squeaker.'' 
He implored New Hampshire voters to ratify the result in the state's primary next week, but asked with a smile, ''Do we think we can get more than an eight-vote margin?''
The rally welcoming Mr. Romney to New Hampshire filled only half of the gymnasium. The applause was friendly, but far from overwhelming, suggesting that the race will begin anew in New Hampshire.
The endorsement drew a snarl from Jon M. Huntsman Jr. , who skipped Iowa, where he drew 1 percent of the vote, to campaign instead in New Hampshire. ''You can get all the Doles and all the McCains in the world, as Romney probably will,'' said Mr. Huntsman, referring to former Senator Bob Dole, the party's nominee in 1996. ''But in the end, who cares?''
Other candidates began staging in the state, too, as they sorted out the Iowa results. Rick Santorum, who came in a close second in Iowa, prepared for a town-hall-style meeting Wednesday night in Brentwood, while Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota ended her campaign and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas prepared to gear back up after coming in fifth in Iowa and reassessing his strategy.
Mr. Romney, the favorite in the primary just six days away, is hoping for a commanding win before the race turns to South Carolina, which votes on Jan. 21. Because of the importance of that state in the primary process, Mr. Romney is planning a quick jaunt to Charleston Thursday and will be joined by Mr. McCain and Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina. Mr. Santorum is also weighing a quick trip south, his spokesman said.
But it is clear that Mr. Romney's opponents, in an increasingly nasty and expensive race, do not intend to allow him an easy path here.
Newt Gingrich, who was buried under a barrage of negative attacks from Mr. Romney's supporters and placed fourth in Iowa, landed in Manchester by charter jet at 3:30 a.m., and held a morning event in Concord focused on education. It was a lecture with hardly a mention of his Republican rivals or campaign strategy. But in a meeting with reporters, Mr. Gingrich made clear he would be delivering on his promise to go after Ron Paul and Mr. Romney more aggressively.
''I am confident by the end of the day we'll have had enough specific references that Governor Romney will get the message,'' he said.
Mr. Paul, who finished third in Iowa, called Mr. Gingrich a ''chicken hawk'' on CNN Wednesday morning for seeking a deferment during the Vietnam War. Mr. Gingrich said that as a father in the 1960s, he received deferments automatically.
And he spoke mockingly of Mr. Paul: ''What he just said has absolutely the same amount of accuracy as the newsletters he said he never wrote,'' a reference to anti-black and anti-Israel sentiments expressed in those newsletters in the 1990s. ''This is a man who says wild and outrageous statements with no facts and later denies that he said them or wonders who wrote them because it couldn't have been him even if it was under his name.''
Despite the muddied result in Iowa, the caucuses -- the first Republican contest of the season -- began narrowing the field.
Mrs. Bachmann, who came in second to last in Iowa, said Wednesday morning at a news conference in Iowa that she was ending her campaign, though she vowed to continue to work to make sure President Obama did not win re-election.
''I will continue to fight to defeat the president's agenda of socialism,'' she said. But she noted that ''the people of Iowa have spoken with a very clear voice'' and said ''I have decided to stand aside.'' She made no endorsement of another candidate.
Mr. Perry, who placed fifth, decided Wednesday to continue in the race after saying late Tuesday night that he would return to Texas to ''assess'' his candidacy.
An important supporter with knowledge of Mr. Perry's plans said he would skip the New Hampshire primary but still participate in the two debates this weekend. Mr. Perry is also sticking with his plan to campaign next week in South Carolina, which votes Jan. 21, the supporter and Mr. Perry's aides said.
His decision to stay in the race surprised some of his advisers. The governor's wife, Anita, was in favor of pushing forward in the campaign, according to two Republicans who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The campaign has been divided over strategy, the two Republicans said, and the decision provided the latest example of competing arguments among his team. Donors and other supporters also reached out to Mr. Perry and urged him to stay in the race through at least the South Carolina primary, given the volatility and unpredictable nature of the race.
''This thing is far from over,'' said Katon Dawson, the former Republican chairman of South Carolina and now an adviser to Mr. Perry. Turning a campaign cliche on its head, he added: ''Iowa picks corn and New Hampshire picks campaigns' pockets.''
Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator and favorite among evangelical voters, is hoping to emerge as the conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
''Don't sell America short,'' Mr. Santorum said Tuesday night at a caucus in Clive, Iowa. ''Don't put someone out there from Iowa who isn't capable of doing what America needs done.''
Mr. Santorum now faces the challenge of trying to broaden his campaign organization on the fly to compete with the structure that Mr. Romney has spent years building. His aides vowed that he would compete with Mr. Romney everywhere.
The Iowa caucuses did not deliver a clean answer to what type of candidate Republicans intend to rally behind to try to defeat Mr. Obama and win back the White House.
It was the closest race in the history of the Iowa caucuses. In 1980, George Bush beat Ronald Reagan by two percentage points; only a tenth of a percentage point separated Mr. Romney from Mr. Santorum on Tuesday.
The endorsement of Mr. McCain further solidifies Mr. Romney as the candidate of the Republican establishment.
''I'm really here for one reason and one reason only,'' Mr. McCain said on Wednesday in Manchester, ''and that is to make sure that we make Mitt Romney the next president of the United States of America.''
The McCain endorsement is significant in New Hampshire, where Mr. McCain has been a darling of the independents. It also comes as something of a slap back at Mr. Santorum, with whom Mr. McCain has had a rocky history. When Mr. Santorum faced a tough challenger in Bob Casey for his Senate seat from Pennsylvania in 2006, Mr. Santorum asked Mr. McCain for his support. But then in 2008, as Mr. McCain was campaigning for president, Mr. Santorum did not support him. In fact, he actively spoke against him.
In an interview early Wednesday morning on CNN, Mr. Santorum congratulated Mr. Romney for getting Mr. McCain's endorsement. But he also said he was not surprised by the move. ''John is a more moderate member of the Republican team,'' who fits with Mr. Romney's ''view of the world,'' Mr. Santorum said, a backhanded compliment meant to underscore Mr. Santorum's conservative credentials.
Mr. Santorum, written off as a bottom-tier candidate for most of the campaign, begins his campaigning in New Hampshire at a ''Faith Family and Freedom'' town hall at 7:30 Wednesday night in Brentwood. He follows with a radio interview at 9 p.m. with WBZ radio in Boston.
After more interviews Thursday morning, he plans a town hall in Northfield, a lunch at the Tilt'n Diner in Tilton, an address at the College Convention in Concord and a town hall in Windham.
Mr. Paul has been running a distant second to Mr. Romney in the polls here. He is well-organized here and is already advertising on television and could ride some momentum, especially with younger voters. Mr. Paul had no public events planned for Wednesday in New Hampshire.
The fissures in the party, particularly among social and economic conservatives, have been exposed during the early stage of the presidential nominating battle. But while Republicans have yet to unite behind a single candidate, they are united in their determination to defeat Mr. Obama.
As the candidates arrived here, they did not find a warm welcome -- and not only because of the Arctic chill that has plunged New Hampshire into a deep freeze. Mr. Huntsman, who skipped Iowa and has been campaigning across New Hampshire by himself, has not exactly rolled out the red carpet for his fellow Republicans.
''Welcome to New Hampshire,'' he said at an event Tuesday night. ''Who cares?''
The candidates have packed schedules for the next six days. Highlights along the way include two debates this weekend, the first since before the Christmas break and a chance for the candidates to reframe their arguments given the Iowa results.
Despite his disappointing finish, Mr. Gingrich pledged on Tuesday to press forward and be on the stage at the next debate on Saturday night in Manchester..
''There will be a great debate in the Republican Party before we are prepared to have a great debate with Barack Obama,'' Mr. Gingrich said, pledging to raise the intensity of his criticism of Mr. Romney. He offered a glimpse at his approach, calling Mr. Romney a liar whose conservative credentials could not be trusted.
Mr. Gingrich wasted no time getting a start in New Hampshire. He held a town hall Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. in Concord and planned a post-lunch town hall at 3 p.m. in Lanconia. Wednesday night he will sit for a public interview at St. Anselm College.
And on Thursday, while Mr. Romney prepares to leave for South Carolina, Mr. Gingrich will hold four town hall meetings, in Plymouth, Littleton, Lancaster and Meredith.
Mr. Huntsman also has a full schedule. He began the earliest of the candidates, starting out with supporters waving his signs in Concord at 8:30 a.m. From there he goes to a 10 a.m. town hall in Pittsfield, a 12:15 p.m. tour of a plant in Barrington, a 4 p.m. town hall in Manchester and a meeting at his campaign headquarters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (56%); RICK PERRY (56%); NIKKI HALEY (56%); MICHELE BACHMANN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (51%) IOWA, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



193 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS RICHARD JOHN SANTORUM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: After a Child's Death, a Religious Politician Became a Cultural Warrior

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As a teenager growing up in Butler, Pa., Rick Santorum spent Sunday mornings as an altar boy, taking wheelchair-bound veterans to Roman Catholic Mass. In the ninth grade, he announced his intention to hold elective office. ''I'm going to be governor of Pennsylvania,'' he declared, according to his brother Dan.
Years later, as a married man and a member of Congress, Mr. Santorum wove these two strands of his life -- his faith and his political aspirations -- into one. Then, in 1996, when he was a freshman senator, his wife, Karen, delivered a child when she was just 20 weeks pregnant. The baby, a boy they named Gabriel, died after two hours.
''That's when I noticed a marked difference in Rick,'' said Robert Traynham, who spent 10 years as a Santorum aide. ''He became much more philosophical, much more deeply religious. You could tell; he was walking with his faith.'' 
That experience helped deepen Mr. Santorum's opposition to abortion, and he went on to become one of Washington's most outspoken cultural warriors. He prodded Congress to outlaw the procedure known as partial-birth abortion, broke with a Republican president, George W. Bush, over embryonic stem cell research and pushed for a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, insisting that it is ''right for children to have moms and dads.''
Those views helped put Mr. Santorum within a whisker of beating Mitt Romney in the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday night. Mr. Santorum has spent months waging a low-budget, shoe-leather-intensive quest for the Republican nomination; he visited all 99 counties in Iowa and moved his wife and seven children (including a disabled 3-year-old daughter) there for three weeks before the Ames Straw Poll last summer. Now, suddenly, he is a viable candidate.
''People have asked me how I've done this, sitting back at the polls and not getting a whole lot of attention paid to us,'' Mr. Santorum told supporters in Iowa on Tuesday night. ''How did you keep going out to Iowa, in 99 counties, and 381 town hall meetings and speeches?''
''Well,'' he went on, ''every morning when I was getting up in the morning to take on that challenge, I've required a strength from another particular friendship, one that is sacred. I've survived the challenges so far by the daily grace that comes from God.''
Brash and blunt at 53, Mr. Santorum is a what-you-see-is-what-you-get politician, unapologetic if his views offend, which they often do. He once offhandedly invoked bestiality in arguing that states should have the right to regulate homosexual acts. ''That is not to pick on homosexuality,'' he said. ''It's not, you know, man on child, man on dog.'' That prompted critics to create a Web site promoting a vulgar definition of his name. He is now feuding with Google, because the site comes up first on a search for him.
On the campaign trail, he makes the case that traditional marriage is one prescription for the nation's economic ills. During a swing through South Carolina this fall, he dropped in on a Christian radio station, where the host of the drive-time talk show, Tony Beam, asked Mr. Santorum how social issues would play in an election dominated by the economy.
Mr. Santorum did not miss a beat, launching into a long discourse on how single-parent homes spawn poverty and government intervention. ''Government gets bigger,'' he argued, ''when families get weaker.''
Richard John Santorum grew up in working-class Pennsylvania, the son of an Italian immigrant father who eventually became a clinical psychologist at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Butler. Mr. Santorum's mother was the chief nurse there, and the Santorums -- Rick is the middle child of three -- lived in a small three-bedroom, one-bathroom brick house on the hospital grounds. Mr. Santorum bunked with his younger brother, Dan.
''Growing up, you had to be on your deathbed not to go to church,'' Dan Santorum said. ''It was 200 yards from our house to walk to the church. Before Mass, my brother and I would get the patients who were not ambulatory and we wheeled them from their hospital rooms to the services. He served Mass and I would help wheel the patients up for Communion, and when it was over we would wheel them back and go home and have a family breakfast.''
Dan Santorum said he and his friends laughed at his older brother when Rick declared he would be Pennsylvania's governor one day. But in college, at Pennsylvania State University, Mr. Santorum studied political science and eventually became state chairman of the College Republicans. He went on to earn a business degree from the University of Pittsburgh and a law degree from the Dickinson School of Law. He broke into politics working as an administrative assistant for a state senator.
Social issues were not high on Mr. Santorum's agenda when he first ran for Congress in 1990, said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College who has followed Mr. Santorum for 30 years. That year, Mr. Santorum narrowly defeated the Democratic incumbent, Doug Walgren, by painting Mr. Walgren as an absentee congressman who spent too much time in Washington -- a charge that would later cost Mr. Santorum his Senate seat in 2006.
He arrived in Washington in 1991 and promptly made a name for himself (along with John A. Boehner, now the speaker of the House) as a member of the so-called Gang of Seven, who helped expose scandal in the banking practices of the House. All seven were freshmen, all had won in a difficult year for Republicans, and they felt emboldened.
''All of them were back-benchers who felt like they had been largely abandoned by the national party and had a formula for success, which was connecting with blue-collar and nontraditional Republican voters on values and economic populism,'' said Ralph Reed, who at the time ran the Christian Coalition, an evangelical group. ''They came into the House loaded for bear.''
Mr. Santorum promoted school vouchers and changing the welfare system, blending his Roman Catholicism with a small-government philosophy that foreshadowed what Mr. Bush would later call his ''compassionate conservative'' agenda. (Mr. Santorum called it the ''community renewal agenda.'') In 1996, he was instrumental in passing the welfare overhaul that President Bill Clinton signed into law. He was already at work on the partial-birth abortion bill when his son died; it did not pass until 2003.
In a swing state like Pennsylvania, Mr. Santorum was an unusual breed -- a conservative Republican who could win. In 1994, he ran for the Senate, ousting Harris Wofford, a Democrat. In 2000, after winning a second term, he became chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, a leadership post that gave him a platform. He used it.
''Conservatives liked him because he spoke their language,'' Professor Madonna said. ''He was aggressive, and vigorous and very polarizing.''
But by 2006, Mr. Santorum was in a tough political spot. He had championed Mr. Bush's agenda and was closely aligned with him, but the country, soured on the Iraq war, had turned against the president.
Mr. Santorum's finances also came under scrutiny amid disclosures that he was home-schooling his children at his family residence in Virginia while receiving money from a Pennsylvania school district to enroll them in ''cyber school.'' He lost badly to Bob Casey, who remains in the Senate, and his political career was presumed dead.
Now Mr. Santorum's challenge is to position himself as a credible alternative to Mr. Romney with little money and hardly any staff. His friends say he is clear-eyed about the challenges. In New Hampshire, the next stop on the Republican primary tour, voters are far more animated by fiscal issues than the social causes that shape Mr. Santorum's political identity.
''We will be in New Hampshire,'' he told backers in Iowa on Tuesday night. ''We'll leave tomorrow. We'll spend our time there. And with your help and God's grace, we'll have another fun night a week from now.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with a Man in the News article about Rick Santorum misidentified a network that interviewed Mr. Santorum. He was shown on Wednesday waiting to talk to Fox News, not CNN.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum waiting to be interviewed on CNN on Wednesday. His weaving of religion and politics helped him come close to beating Mitt Romney in Iowa.
 Tyler Carlisle, a freshman at Yale, cleaned the New Hampshire office in preparation for the arrival of the candidate, who has spent months waging a low-budget campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); POLITICS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); ABORTION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (52%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



194 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, an Awkward Reminder of Personal Rifts in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and ASHLEY PARKER; Jonathan Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Everybody went by the script during a highly choreographed endorsement Wednesday at a school gymnasium here. Mitt Romney called Senator John McCain a ''hero'' and a ''great friend.'' In supporting his once-bitter rival for president, Mr. McCain called on Joe Louis for inspiration and said that President Obama ''can run'' from Mr. Romney, ''but he can't hide.''
Yet the two men made little eye contact, even when Mr. Romney was introducing Mr. McCain. They shared a stiff, half-hug on stage, patting each other on the back in a perfunctory manner. And they exchanged detached banter about the weather in Arizona. 
The sometimes stilted theatrics of the McCain endorsement highlighted the challenge ahead for the Romney campaign: proving he has the personal charisma and ideological heft to unify a Republican Party that, as the close voting in Iowa vividly showed, has become deeply splintered among business, libertarian and social conservative factions.
For all Mr. Romney's momentum at this stage of the race, his public appearances can still feel oddly dutiful and flat. But in what the campaign surely hopes is a sign of the future, by the end of a long day spent riding a bus together, Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney seemed to have warmed to their new political partnership, their awkwardness dissolving into easier banter and a playful manner.
Mr. McCain, who in 2008 groused that Mr. Romney would say anything to get elected president, paid the candidate his highest compliment. He described him as ''straight talking,'' Mr. McCain's own moniker.
After Mr. Romney claimed the Iowa caucus by eight votes, Wednesday was his chance to savor a triumph on the national political stage that has eluded him, repeatedly and painfully, for years. And to some degree, he did: the half-glow of a thin victory pervaded the day. Campaign aides erupted in applause when he boarded his plane from Iowa to New Hampshire, prompting a rare display of swagger from Mr. Romney, who answered them with effusive congratulations. ''It's unbelievable,'' he told them. ''Let's do it again.''
At times, though, the campaign handled the Iowa victory in a self-deprecating tone. Mr. Romney began referring to his razor-thin margin as a ''landslide,'' dubbing his campaign bus the ''Landslide Lounge'' and nicknaming his top adviser in Iowa ''Landslide.''
Not even Mr. McCain could resist a jab. ''By the way,'' he told an audience in a high school gymnasium here. ''We forgot to congratulate him on his landslide victory last night.''
At one point, Mr. Romney jokingly pleaded with the audience to deliver a bigger result for him in New Hampshire. ''Do you think we can get more than an eight-vote margin here?'' he asked. ''I hope so.''
The crowd -- which was confined to smaller space within the gym, giving the room the appearance of being more packed than it actually was -- was friendly, though not exactly warm. Mr. Romney faced questions on several of his least favorite topics. A young man from the Occupy Wall Street movement asked if Mr. Romney would modify his statement that ''corporations are people'' to corporations are ''abusive people.'' Another voter asked about his Massachusetts health care program, which many Republicans have unfavorably compared to President Obama's plan. And a Chinese-American woman told him that she was offended by his remarks about China, and criticized his economic plan.
''After 20 years of Reagan economics, trickle-down theory, it didn't help me,'' she said. ''My tin can is still empty.''
When Mr. Romney then turned to a school-age boy, perhaps looking for a lighter question, the young man asked him about a military alliance with Iraq now that the United States has withdrawn from the country -- a question Mr. Romney quickly turned over to Mr. McCain.
But on a day when the Romney campaign tried to cement its role as the nominee apparent, it was the endorsement from Mr. McCain that carried the greatest weight.
Mr. McCain's support, strategically delivered in New Hampshire, the state that put the Arizona senator on the path to the Republican nomination in 2008, was a political coup, timed to expand Mr. Romney's already commanding lead.
What was supposed to be a closely guarded secret, culminating in a surprise appearance by Mr. McCain at a school in Manchester, leaked out in the early hours of Wednesday morning, apparently at the hands of those close to Mr. McCain -- much to the chagrin of aides to Mr. Romney, according to advisers.
But mainly, the Romney team was crowing over an endorsement that could have lifted the fortunes of a New Hampshire rival, Jon M. Huntsman Jr.
The Romney and Huntsman families -- two intertwined clans that go back to the early days of Mormonism -- publicly split in 2008 when Mr. Huntsman, then the Utah governor, endorsed Mr. McCain.
Two Romney advisers said Mr. Huntsman had hoped Mr. McCain would return the favor ahead of the New Hampshire primary, which Mr. Huntsman has built his presidential campaign around.
Still, even as Mr. McCain offered his unqualified backing, he made clear that there were limits to how far he would take his support for a Romney White House.
On stage, Mr. McCain deftly dodged a voter's inquiry about whether he would ever serve as Mr. Romney's vice president, leaving the question unanswered.
Pressed by reporters, Mr. McCain did little to mask his lack of enthusiasm for the idea. ''I'm happy in the Senate,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Wednesday, Mitt Romney was endorsed by his bitter rival from the 2008 Republican presidential race, Senator John McCain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); RICK PERRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



195 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: A Bit of a Balancing Act for Republicans Critical of Paul

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Republicans who were alarmed by the strong performance of Representative Ron Paul in Tuesday's Iowa caucuses must tread carefully as they deal with his rise: he has legions of supporters and could mount an independent bid should be fail to get the party's nomination.
Surveys of voters as they prepared to caucus on Tuesday underscored the power that Mr. Paul, a Texan, has to draw young voters, first-time voters and independents to the Republican Party. These groups are sought after by a party seeking to broaden its base, and they can be critical to turning out the vote in the general election, as Barack Obama proved in 2008. 
Mr. Paul has so far said he has ''no intention'' of competing in November unless he wins the Republican nomination.
The 76-year-old Mr. Paul, the oldest candidate in the presidential race, had strong backing from those under 40 on Tuesday night, winning support from half of caucusgoers 24 and under and from nearly half of those between 25 and 29, according to surveys conducted by Edison Research for television networks and The Associated Press.
He also won about a third of the vote among people in their 30s, the data suggest. The only age group that Mitt Romney won, according to the exit poll, was caucusgoers 65 and older, helping propel him to victory.
Mr. Paul -- who arrives here in New Hampshire on Friday seeking to shore up support before next week's primary -- also won the support of one-third of first-time caucusgoers, suggesting his ability to draw new voters to the polls.
''If we marginalize these supporters who have been touched by Ron Paul and what he has believed in over all these years, well, then, through either a third-party run of Ron Paul's or the Democrats being able to capture some of those independents and these Libertarians who have supported what Ron Paul's been talking about, well, then the G.O.P. is going to lose,'' Sarah Palin said Tuesday on Fox News.
But while his lower-tax, antigovernment platform lines up with the goals of economic conservatives in the party, his antiwar and noninterventionist foreign policy is viewed as heretical by many of the same voters. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has even gone as far as suggesting that Mr. Paul would allow Iran to build nuclear weapons to ''wipe Israel off the face of the earth,'' with the United States perhaps to follow. But Mr. Perry's state chairman in South Carolina, Katon Dawson, drew a distinction between candidate-driven campaign-trail attacks on Mr. Paul and any deeper criticism by the Republican establishment.
''I don't think you can say the Republican Party is whacking Ron Paul. I haven't seen evidence of it,'' said Mr. Dawson. But he said the party must be careful not to alienate his supporters, especially independents, whose numbers are growing faster than those of voters registered in either party.
''We need them,'' he said. ''Barack Obama has got all hands on deck, and we have to have every independent that comes in the booth. There is a risk of alienating a lot of groups the Republican Party needs.''
The question is, Just how many of Mr. Paul's supporters really are potential Republican loyalists? Some of his organizers are famously known for saying they would work for him or for no one.
In fact, the Iowa surveys also confirmed what rival Republican campaigns have long maintained: that as much of Mr. Paul's support comes from those who are not Republicans as from those who are. Independent voters -- who made up about a quarter of caucusgoers -- supported Mr. Paul 43 percent of the time, the data suggests. Among those who identified themselves as Republicans -- three-quarters of caucusgoers -- he picked up just 14 percent.
That support base could hamper him in primaries in which voting is limited to registered members of the party.
The bottom line: Mr. Paul's absolute vote total in Iowa was split close to evenly between Republicans and independents, while the other leading candidates got 80 percent or more of their support from self-identified Republicans.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Paul's supporters at a caucus-night party in Ankeny, Iowa. Other candidates must make sure not to alienate his backers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (93%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



196 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: The Consumer Bureau Gets a Chief

 BODY:
Nearly six months after it opened its doors, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finally has a director, after President Obama's recess appointment of Richard Cordray, a former attorney general of Ohio who served as the bureau's chief of enforcement. 
The appointment means the bureau will have a strong pro-consumer leader and can now exercise its full powers -- regulating consumer products and practices both at banks and nonbanks, including mortgage brokerages and student loan providers. It also means that Mr. Obama has confronted Republican obstructionists.
Last year, Senate Republicans refused to consider any nominee to run the bureau unless the White House first agreed to drastically curtail the bureau's powers. Mr. Obama refused to weaken the bureau, but he did throw the opponents a bone by passing over Elizabeth Warren, who had developed the idea for the bureau and was vehemently opposed by the banks and their Republican defenders. After Mr. Obama nominated Mr. Cordray, the Republicans blocked a confirmation vote.
Congressional Republicans are calling the appointment ''unprecedented'' and ''illegitimate'' -- that is rich given that they are determined to use any and all tactics to thwart the bureau and the Dodd-Frank reform law that created it.
Mr. Obama also appointed three new and qualified members to the National Labor Relations Board. Republicans' objection to an earlier nominee had threatened to reduce the five-member board to two; the recess appointments will ensure that the board has enough members to do its job. Mr. Cordray and the others can serve until the end of 2013.
Announcing the appointments, Mr. Obama also asserted a welcome new credo: ''When Congress refuses to act, and as a result, hurts our economy and puts our people at risk, then I have an obligation as president to do what I can without them.''
Hear. Hear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); STUDENT LOANS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD CORDRAY (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



197 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: The Night It Was This Close in Iowa

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The lesson to be learned from the outcome of the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday is, ''Don't peak too early.'' The leaders of the pack changed from week to week, but the last to garner interest, Rick Santorum, finished in a virtual dead heat with Mitt Romney, even as Mr. Santorum came from behind only in the last week or two.
It is clear that the run for the Republican presidential nomination has become a combination of a seesaw and a horse race. Republican voters are apparently so distraught about their choices that their votes seem to be frustrated last-minute decisions. 
It could be that voters are just fickle. It could also be that the Republican Party has serious problems.
PATRICIA A. WELLER Emmitsburg, Md., Jan. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
After a year of nonstop campaigning, more than 900 public events and millions of dollars spent on advertising, bus tours and pizza, 122,255 voters in Iowa reaffirmed one of democracy's greatest strengths: that every vote counts.
Just ask Mitt Romney. He squeaked out an eight-vote victory over Rick Santorum, the closest-ever presidential race in the Hawkeye State's rich caucus history. I'm confident that the pundits will have plenty to say about the results, but I doubt any of them will call the former Massachusetts governor the ''Landslide Kid.''
Despite the many challenges we face here at home and around the world, the good people of Iowa did their civic duty Tuesday night. Every American, regardless of party affiliation, is the beneficiary of their citizen activism. Job well done.
DENNY FREIDENRICH Laguna Beach, Calif., Jan. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''Iowa Caucuses'' (editorial, Jan. 4): The Republican primary debates and the Iowa caucuses show that no Republican would be a better president than Barack Obama.
The weak, flawed G.O.P. candidates not only have to fight one another to show who is the most conservative and most tilted to the right, but they also have to compete to see who can say the most outlandish, untrue things about President Obama.
None of the ''want to be president'' Republicans identify with or even understand the message and impact of the Occupy Wall Street movement nationwide. Being a Republican leader means promoting failed trickle-down economics and identifying with the 1 percent.
The 1 percenters will always thrive and prosper no matter who is president, but the same cannot be said about the 99 percenters who mostly represent the majority middle class. If the 99 percent are wise and vote for their own economic self-interest, President Obama will be re-elected, and hope for a reborn, strengthened middle class will be possible.
PAUL L. WHITELEY Sr.
Louisville, Ky., Jan. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''For Divided G.O.P., Signs of a Long Road to November'' (news analysis, front page, Jan. 4):
At a deep ideological level Republicans, from Speaker John A. Boehner to caucus voters for Michele Bachmann in Iowa, are united, not divided. When Republicans have political power, including their minority power in the Senate, they operate from two shared commitments: ensuring that governments are not effective in serving people's basic needs, and imposing constraints on the personal lives and working conditions of women, laborers and the less powerful.
Evidence is scarce that values of caring for others and conserving traditions govern the decisions Republicans make as they seek and wield power.
PETER TAYLOR Arlington, Mass., Jan. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''The Slush Funds of Iowa'' (editorial, Jan. 3):
The dumping of money in Iowa -- and everywhere -- to influence voters is indeed unconscionable. But in any election, it is the voters themselves who are ultimately responsible for the outcome. It is their job to research and analyze the candidates' resumes and positions -- to be, in short, an educated citizenry.
If they are too lazy to do that, and depend instead on advertising to inform their decisions, we're in trouble.
GEOFFREY S. POOR Honeoye Falls, N.Y., Jan. 3, 2012
To the Editor:
Roughly 120,000 people voted in the Iowa Republican caucuses. That's a little less than the number of registered voters who live in a single, modest-sized city like Newark.
Imagine how different our politics would be if every four years, the media, instead of focusing for weeks and even months on the political preferences of people in Iowa, did the same for Newark.
RICHARD JOFFE New York, Jan. 4, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK SANTORUM (88%); BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (77%) IOWA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



198 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Appointment Clears the Way For Consumer Agency to Act

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Payday lenders, money transfer agencies, credit bureaus and debt collectors, take notice: the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is coming after you, and quickly.
The recess appointment of Richard Cordray on Wednesday as director of the consumer bureau finally gives the fledgling agency the legal standing to supervise those types of financial enterprises, something it has lacked since the bureau was created with the signing of the Dodd-Frank financial regulation act in July 2010.
Although the Dodd-Frank law authorized the consumer agency to regulate the so-called nonbank financial companies, which previously had little supervision, the law was purposely written such that the bureau could not invoke its powers until it had a director. 
The bureau had taken responsibility for existing regulations on consumer products at banks and thrifts, it was not able to write new regulations for banking products like mortgages and credit cards until it had a permanent leader.
''Now, with a director, the C.F.P.B. can exercise its full authorities -- with respect to both banks and nonbanks -- to help those markets operate fairly, transparently, and competitively,'' Mr. Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, said in a blog post Wednesday on the bureau's Web site.
Most of the nonbank financial companies, he said, ''had no regular federal oversight in the run up to the financial crisis. They led a race to the bottom that pushed aside responsible businesses, including community banks and credit unions, and greatly harmed consumers.''
Mr. Cordray was appointed as the enforcement director for the consumer bureau by Elizabeth Warren, who served as a special adviser to President Obama for overseeing the startup of the agency. Though Ms. Warren conceived the bureau, championed it in Congress and was the president's pick to get it running, she never had the agency's full powers because she was never formally nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.
The bureau has begun some duties like a banking supervision program by placing regulators at many of the nation's largest banks to review mortgage lending and consumer banking fees.
The consumer bureau director also can influence banking policy as a member of the board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which itself is awaiting Senate confirmation of three presidential nominees to its board.
The consumer bureau focuses on ''unfair, deceptive or abusive'' acts or practices in products like private education loans and prepaid charge cards and at companies like mortgage servicers, which have come under harsh criticism for their foreclosure practices since the housing bubble burst.
Payday lenders, the target of much of the criticism directed at nonbank financial companies, said Wednesday that they would work with the consumer bureau. D. Lynn DeVault, chairwoman of the Community Financial Services Association of America, a trade group for payday lenders, said that more than 19 million Americans have used the companies for short-term loans, which she said were simple, transparent and well understood by consumers.
The Obama administration has not always agreed. It said last month that short-term payday loans can carry interest rates of more than 400 percent, if measured on an annual rate, and fees are not always clearly disclosed.
Consumer advocacy organizations hailed Mr. Cordray's appointment. ''The C.F.P.B. will no longer have to fight mounting consumer financial abuses with one arm tied behind its back,'' said Travis B. Plunkett, legislative director for the Consumer Federation of America.
But some banking and business organizations objected. The American Banking Association, which represents banks of all sizes but generally is considered the voice of the largest institutions, said the appointment ''puts the bureau's future actions in constitutional jeopardy, threatening its work, complicating compliance efforts of banks and further undermining the entity's authority and credibility.''
Many community banks and credit unions have been eager to see the agency up and running because they often compete against nonbank mortgage lenders and other loan companies.
Thomas J. Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said its members ''strongly believe it's important to protect consumers from predatory lending, financial scams and fraud in the marketplace.'' But he cited the agency's structure and lack of oversight as its main problems.
The consumer bureau is housed within the Federal Reserve but was given the power to determine its own budget, without Congressional appropriation. The law provides the agency with a budget of up to 11 percent of the Fed's total 2009 operating expenses, or up to $406 million this year.
Senate opponents want the director replaced with a five-member board similar to those of other regulatory agencies and have refused to consider voting on any nominee until the structure is changed. Currently, any rules that the director puts in place can be overturned only by a vote of two-thirds of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a 10-member board created by Dodd-Frank law to monitor the financial system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); BANKING LAW (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); CREDIT UNIONS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (68%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%); PREPAID CARDS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); HOUSING MARKET (66%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (64%); HOUSING BUBBLE (64%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012



199 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Harder for Americans to Rise From Economy's Lower Rungs

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Benjamin Franklin did it. Henry Ford did it. And American life is built on the faith that others can do it, too: rise from humble origins to economic heights. ''Movin' on up,'' George Jefferson-style, is not only a sitcom song but a civil religion.
But many researchers have reached a conclusion that turns conventional wisdom on its head: Americans enjoy less economic mobility than their peers in Canada and much of Western Europe. The mobility gap has been widely discussed in academic circles, but a sour season of mass unemployment and street protests has moved the discussion toward center stage.
Former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, a Republican candidate for president, warned this fall that movement ''up into the middle income is actually greater, the mobility in Europe, than it is in America.'' National Review, a conservative thought leader, wrote that ''most Western European and English-speaking nations have higher rates of mobility.'' Even Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who argues that overall mobility remains high, recently wrote that ''mobility from the very bottom up'' is ''where the United States lags behind.'' 
Liberal commentators have long emphasized class, but the attention on the right is largely new.
''It's becoming conventional wisdom that the U.S. does not have as much mobility as most other advanced countries,'' said Isabel V. Sawhill, an economist at the Brookings Institution. ''I don't think you'll find too many people who will argue with that.''
One reason for the mobility gap may be the depth of American poverty, which leaves poor children starting especially far behind. Another may be the unusually large premiums that American employers pay for college degrees. Since children generally follow their parents' educational trajectory, that premium increases the importance of family background and stymies people with less schooling.
At least five large studies in recent years have found the United States to be less mobile than comparable nations. A project led by Markus Jantti, an economist at a Swedish university, found that 42 percent of American men raised in the bottom fifth of incomes stay there as adults. That shows a level of persistent disadvantage much higher than in Denmark (25 percent) and Britain (30 percent) -- a country famous for its class constraints.
Meanwhile, just 8 percent of American men at the bottom rose to the top fifth. That compares with 12 percent of the British and 14 percent of the Danes.
Despite frequent references to the United States as a classless society, about 62 percent of Americans (male and female) raised in the top fifth of incomes stay in the top two-fifths, according to research by the Economic Mobility Project of the Pew Charitable Trusts. Similarly, 65 percent born in the bottom fifth stay in the bottom two-fifths.
By emphasizing the influence of family background, the studies not only challenge American identity but speak to the debate about inequality. While liberals often complain that the United States has unusually large income gaps, many conservatives have argued that the system is fair because mobility is especially high, too: everyone can climb the ladder. Now the evidence suggests that America is not only less equal, but also less mobile.
John Bridgeland, a former aide to President George W. Bush who helped start Opportunity Nation, an effort to seek policy solutions, said he was ''shocked'' by the international comparisons. ''Republicans will not feel compelled to talk about income inequality,'' Mr. Bridgeland said. ''But they will feel a need to talk about a lack of mobility -- a lack of access to the American Dream.''
While Europe differs from the United States in culture and demographics, a more telling comparison may be with Canada, a neighbor with significant ethnic diversity. Miles Corak, an economist at the University of Ottawa, found that just 16 percent of Canadian men raised in the bottom tenth of incomes stayed there as adults, compared with 22 percent of Americans. Similarly, 26 percent of American men raised at the top tenth stayed there, but just 18 percent of Canadians.
''Family background plays more of a role in the U.S. than in most comparable countries,'' Professor Corak said in an interview.
Skeptics caution that the studies measure ''relative mobility'' -- how likely children are to move from their parents' place in the income distribution. That is different from asking whether they have more money. Most Americans have higher incomes than their parents because the country has grown richer.
Some conservatives say this measure, called absolute mobility, is a better gauge of opportunity. A Pew study found that 81 percent of Americans have higher incomes than their parents (after accounting for family size). There is no comparable data on other countries.
Since they require two generations of data, the studies also omit immigrants, whose upward movement has long been considered an American strength. ''If America is so poor in economic mobility, maybe someone should tell all these people who still want to come to the U.S.,'' said Stuart M. Butler, an analyst at the Heritage Foundation.
The income compression in rival countries may also make them seem more mobile. Reihan Salam, a writer for The Daily and National Review Online, has calculated that a Danish family can move from the 10th percentile to the 90th percentile with $45,000 of additional earnings, while an American family would need an additional $93,000.
Even by measures of relative mobility, Middle America remains fluid. About 36 percent of Americans raised in the middle fifth move up as adults, while 23 percent stay on the same rung and 41 percent move down, according to Pew research. The ''stickiness'' appears at the top and bottom, as affluent families transmit their advantages and poor families stay trapped.
While Americans have boasted of casting off class since Poor Richard's Almanac, until recently there has been little data.
Pioneering work in the early 1980s by Gary S. Becker, a Nobel laureate in economics, found only a mild relationship between fathers' earnings and those of their sons. But when better data became available a decade later, another prominent economist, Gary Solon, found the bond twice as strong. Most researchers now estimate the ''elasticity'' of father-son earnings at 0.5, which means if one man earns $100,000 more than another, his sons would earn $50,000 more on average than the sons of the poorer man.
In 2006 Professor Corak reviewed more than 50 studies of nine countries. He ranked Canada, Norway, Finland and Denmark as the most mobile, with the United States and Britain roughly tied at the other extreme. Sweden, Germany, and France were scattered across the middle.
The causes of America's mobility problem are a topic of dispute -- starting with the debates over poverty. The United States maintains a thinner safety net than other rich countries, leaving more children vulnerable to debilitating hardships.
Poor Americans are also more likely than foreign peers to grow up with single mothers. That places them at an elevated risk of experiencing poverty and related problems, a point frequently made by Mr. Santorum, who surged into contention in the Iowa caucuses. The United States also has uniquely high incarceration rates, and a longer history of racial stratification than its peers.
''The bottom fifth in the U.S. looks very different from the bottom fifth in other countries,'' said Scott Winship, a researcher at the Brookings Institution, who wrote the article for National Review. ''Poor Americans have to work their way up from a lower floor.''
A second distinguishing American trait is the pay tilt toward educated workers. While in theory that could help poor children rise -- good learners can become high earners -- more often it favors the children of the educated and affluent, who have access to better schools and arrive in them more prepared to learn.
''Upper-income families can invest more in their children's education and they may have a better understanding of what it takes to get a good education,'' said Eric Wanner, president of the Russell Sage Foundation, which gives grants to social scientists.
The United States is also less unionized than many of its peers, which may lower wages among the least skilled, and has public health problems, like obesity and diabetes, which can limit education and employment.
Perhaps another brake on American mobility is the sheer magnitude of the gaps between rich and the rest -- the theme of the Occupy Wall Street protests, which emphasize the power of the privileged to protect their interests. Countries with less equality generally have less mobility.
Mr. Salam recently wrote that relative mobility ''is overrated as a social policy goal'' compared with raising incomes across the board. Parents naturally try to help their children, and a completely mobile society would mean complete insecurity: anyone could tumble any time.
But he finds the stagnation at the bottom alarming and warns that it will worsen. Most of the studies end with people born before 1970, while wage gaps, single motherhood and incarceration increased later. Until more recent data arrives, he said, ''we don't know the half of it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Jan. 5 about the difficulty Americans face in rising through the economic ranks described incorrectly the concept of intergenerational income elasticity, used by economists to examine the persistence of income inequality across generations. When economists estimate the elasticity of father-son income to be 0.5, it means that for every 1 percent increase in a father's income, his sons' income can be expected to increase by about 0.5 percent. It does not mean that if one man earns $100,000 more than another, his sons would earn $50,000 more on average than the sons of the poorer man.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Occupy protesters, like these in Flint, Mich., have pushed discussions about economic mobility toward center stage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN GARZA/THE FLINT JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) CHARTS: Comparing Economic Mobility: American men born in the bottom quintile are more likely to stay there than the Danish, according to a study of earnings across generations. (Source: ''American Exceptionalism in a New Light,'' by Markus Jantti and colleagues) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEN (89%); FAMILY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); RELIGION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); LIBERAL MEDIA (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (55%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RICK SANTORUM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); DENMARK (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012



200 of 1426 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
City Room: Residents of a well-gentrified Harlem neighborhood get a wine and liquor store to take down its plexiglass barriers and put up a classier sign. -- Nick Fox 
Serious Eats: Toast the new season of "Portlandia" with a few of these intriguing (and sometimes wildly baroque) cocktails coming out of Oregon. -- Jeff Gordinier
Specialty food.com: A winter Baedeker to the best of the hearty high-end supermarket soups, from Cugino's Chicken Noodle Knockout Soup to Turtle Island Cheddar Beer Soup and Amy's Light-in-Sodium Lentil Soup. Crackers are recommended as well! -- Glenn Collins 
Nowness: Amazing slideshow on winter locavore cuisine in the Arctic, from Swedish chef Magnus Nilsson. -- Julia Moskin 
The Washington Post: As Girl Scout cookie season approaches, get ready for a sweet surprise: Savannah Smiles, a new lemon cookie, dusted with confectioner's sugar, to mark the organization's 100th anniversary. (It's named for the hometown of the Scouts' founding mother, Juliette Gordon Low. -- Patrick Farrell 
: "This may be the best-lit room in New York, a golden, glowing lacquered box." In a beautifully written feature, Brett Martin pays tribute to the old-school elegance of La Grenouille as the Manhattan landmark approaches its 50th birthday. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Economist: Although binge drinking is a growing youthful affliction in Britain, a forthcoming book, "Intoxication and Society," by Philip Withington, a Cambridge historian, traces it back to the 17th century, when the educated elite taught Britons to drink to excess. And now, counterintuitively, a think tank has found that English drinking is still linked to affluence: 83 percent of the richest one-tenth of households by expenditure regularly buy alcohol, compared with just 29 percent of the poorest one-tenth. ... -- Glenn Collins 
Grub Street: ... And here's another social-class surprise: The New Yorkers who shop most frequently at luxury stores are not the most frequent diners in the city's most expensive and creative restaurants. They're more likely to dine out in their neighborhood. -- Nick Fox 
Glutton for Life: Is this the most appetizing essay ever published about kohlrabi? I think so. -- Julia Moskin 
Mailhos: From France comes this ode to the parsnip, and a soup recipe, too. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Los Angeles Times: The Food and Drug Administration takes the step it sidestepped three years ago, limiting the use of some antibiotics on livestock. Why now? The agency says it wants to preserve the drugs' effectiveness on people. -- Patrick Farrell
The Atlantic: Pepsi says a man couldn't have found a mouse in a can of Mountain Dew, as he claims, because the soda would have dissolved it. And my stomach? -- Nick Fox
Boston Magazine: Beantown is learning to treat its (coffee) beans right. -- Jeff Gordinier
Slate: Why is pepper such a dinner-table staple? "It can be used well, but add too much, and your food tastes cheap and crass," writes Sara Dickerman, who suggests that salt may need a new partner. -- Patrick Farrell 
Tasting Table: Oxtail terrine and old-school hip-hop at a new bar (and dude-food destination) in Los Angeles. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); BEER & ALE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); HISTORY (72%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SCOUT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

 
