

601 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Bolivia Wiping Out Coca, at a Price

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: CHIPIRIRI, Bolivia, Oct. 19

 BODY:
Leonardo Marca is down to his last acre of coca, and he has no intention of giving it up without a fight.
When soldiers took machetes to his fields two years ago, he begged them to leave him something to support his family. Perhaps it was the big military tattoo on one arm, left over from his army days, that persuaded the soldiers then to spare him all that is left now, a single patch covered by a thick jungle canopy. 
 "I know they are coming back," said Mr. Marca, 43, a man of sheepish manner but fiery words. "The government says it will take our land and send us to jail if we persist in growing coca. We will have no alternative but to defend ourselves, like in Colombia."
The coca farmers of the Chapare region of central Bolivia are down to what amounts to their last few acres after an aggressive, mostly American-financed campaign to eradicate what was once the world's largest coca-growing area. In the last three years, thousands of families who once grew coca have fled the Chapare and thousands of others have grudgingly given up coca to cultivate legal crops.
"We are not going to retreat one centimeter," said President Hugo Banzer in a speech last week. "Our firm commitment is to leave Bolivia without drugs by 2002, totally outside the drug circuit."
American and Bolivian officials say Mr. Banzer is nearer than ever to fulfilling that goal, which would make Bolivia the first country in the history of the modern drug wars to effectively eliminate itself as a producer. But that victory has brought a steep cost here and few of the benefits American officials had hoped for.
Mr. Banzer's government has been rattled by explosive protests and simmering small-scale insurrections, and the effect on the overall supply of cocaine reaching street corners in the United States, the main consumer of the drug, has been virtually nil.
As the coca fields have shrunk drastically, the resistance of a hard core of about 2,000 families has grown more fierce. Coca farmer union leaders have stepped up threats to farmers who have chosen to switch to other crops. Coca growers have set booby traps in the remaining coca fields and even ambushes, arming themselves with old Mauser rifles left over from the Chaco War of the 1930's in a last-ditch effort to stop eradication.
One antinarcotics policeman was found buried the other day with acid poured on his face, and four members of the security forces and the wife of an antinarcotics policeman have been missing for two weeks and are presumed dead.
About 25 coca growers have been arrested in recent weeks.
A three-week-long road blockade by the coca growers that ended last week did serious harm to American and Bolivian efforts to encourage alternative agricultural development. Losses to alternative development projects came to $1.25 million, according to the American Embassy, and hard-earned relationships with Argentine and Chilean importers have been badly strained.
Meanwhile, Chapare coca growers have been hoarding coca seeds, which can sprout into flowering bushes in just two and a half years, with an eye toward returning to cultivation at the earliest opportunity.
What the coca growers are waiting for, they say, is a change of government in 2002. One leading candidates, former President Jaime Paz Zamora, used to wear a pin on his lapel showing a coca leaf as a sign of resistance to Washington.
Several major leaders of the coca growers are threatening armed conflict if they are not permitted to grow at least small amounts of coca.
Most military experts do not believe the coca growers can put up serious military resistance, and they point to a small rebellion in 1998 that was easily put down. But with other Aymara-speaking Indian peasant groups becoming increasingly militant over a variety of land issues, Bolivian officials express concerns that peasant and labor turbulence could threaten the country's economic and political stability.
Only three years ago, coca fields were as plentiful in the sweltering mountain valleys of the Chapare as cornfields in Kansas. So much money flowed that peasants were buying French perfumes and cognac at the kiosks that had sprouted up in this farming town and some even sent their children to private schools.
But those days are over. Now, as the local economy has stumbled, peasants are once again drinking cheap fermented corn juice as their beverage of choice and neighborhood stores say sales are off by half.
More important, over the long term, many of the coca farmers show no interest in giving up coca for good and cultivating alternatives like black pepper, pineapple and heart of palm.
The coca growers are primarily former miners who lost their jobs 25 years ago when the government privatized the mines. They have little farming experience. The other coca farmers are peasants who fled the highlands because of drought and soil erosion. There, they grew corn and potatoes -- far easier crops to grow than the tropical fruits that have been promoted as alternatives.
The transition from cultivating coca, which needs almost no tending, to learning how to deal with fertilizers and pesticides is daunting for many. Coca is also far more lucrative than fruits and vegetables. Moreover, waiting for traffickers to come by and transport their coca harvest is a lot easier than finding credits and ways to get legitimate crops to markets.
Moreover, coca strips the soil of nutrients. The land of the Chapare, never that fertile to begin with, is so poor from years of coca growing that the farmers have a tough time competing with farmers from other areas.
"We lack roads, much of the land isn't good and there isn't enough financing or government help," said Moises Alguilar, 52, a former coca leader. "And coca is a tradition. Its part of our culture." As he spoke, Mr. Alguilar reached into his pocket to pull out a plastic bag full of coca to chew.
"After coca comes what?" asked Carlos F. Toranzo Roca, a Bolivian economist at the Latin American Institute of Social Investigations in La Paz. "To sustain zero coca, you need an economic plan. And we still haven't seen that plan."
Nevertheless, of the 78,400 acres in the region under coca cultivation at the beginning of 1998, the aggressive eradication campaign has left only about 4,000 today, according to the American Embassy. Even those are due to be eliminated soon. Drug Enforcement Administration agents have been cut from 35 to 2 as Bolivia, once the second leading producer after Peru, has become a minor player.
Despite the costs to the Chapare region and even Bolivia as a whole, the shift has had little or no impact on the overall supply of cocaine being brought to markets, as traffickers have nimbly shifted growing and production to Colombia over the last five years.
Bolivian officials promise that virtually no coca will be left in the Chapare by January and that they will then move on to the Yungas region outside La Paz, a smaller but more traditional coca-growing area with 6,125 acres of illegal coca plants in tiny plots.
The Yungas, rugged and rainy, will potentially be more difficult to denude of coca than the Chapare. The peasants there are very attached to their crops, which serve traditional medicinal and ceremonial purposes. And the region is served by a single-lane mountain road that officials worry will be an easy site for ambushes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hard-core coca growers in Bolivia say they won't give up without a fight. One, Leonardo Marca, checked his plants in the Chipiriri area.; Growers drying their last harvest of coca leaves after the police destroyed their field near San Rafael in the Chapare region of Bolivia last week. (Photographs by Antonio Suarez for The New York Times)
 
Map of Bolivia shows the location of Chipiriri: In places like Chipiriri, some growers resist coca eradication.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA; BOLIVIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; AGRICULTURE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COCAINE (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); DRUG POLICY (88%); ARMIES (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); FAMILY (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (69%); SMALL ARMS MFG (68%); AGRICULTURE (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); ARRESTS (60%); 

PERSON: BANZER, HUGO (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD HUGO BANZER (61%); LEONARDO MARCA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



602 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: MICHIGAN;
Trying to Push State Off the Fence

SERIES: BATTLEGROUNDS: Michigan

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., Oct. 20

 BODY:
The moment has come in Michigan for the big boys to push all their chips to the middle of the table. But they are not yet doing it. Not quite.
Eight points behind in the widely followed Epic-MRA poll a mere three weeks ago, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas has caught up with Vice President Al Gore, and few politicians here will venture a prediction as to who will win this most hotly contested of the big swing states in the 2000 campaign. The poll, taken after the final presidential debate and published in The Detroit Free Press, showed Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore with 43 percent each and Ralph Nader with 4 percent, with 10 percent of those surveyed either undecided or backing other candidates. 
 "By definition," said Bill Ballenger, the Lansing-based editor of Inside Michigan Politics, a newsletter, "it can't get any closer, can it?"
The Democrats are pressing hard. Their trade union allies are working flat out, with multiple mailings and elaborate phone banks, to deliver the votes of up to 70 percent of their members. One Gore surrogate or another visits Michigan every day.
On Wednesday, less than 24 hours after the debate, Mr. Gore himself rolled into downtown Flint, a hard-pressed old car town.
Now is the time "to keep creating jobs and make sure no one is left behind," the vice president told a crowd of 5,000; many knew from experience what he was talking about. Governor Bush, Mr. Gore warned them, is a dire threat to the well-being of workers.
Yet one prominent Democrat is missing: President Clinton. Several Michigan Democratic leaders said this week that Mr. Clinton was badly needed to help boost turnout among blacks and union members. But so far the vice president has not asked him to campaign here; Mr. Clinton is scheduled to appear in California, where the race is much less close, but not in this pivotal state. Apparently Mr. Gore fears being overshadowed, or casting new light on old White House scandals, or both.
Mr. Bush is also holding one weapon back: Senator John McCain of Arizona, his former rival for the Republican nomination. Mr. Bush's wife, Laura, and his mother, Barbara, kicked off their "W Stands for Women" drive here, crossing the state by bus on Wednesday, in an effort to cut into Mr. Gore's lead among women. Mr. Bush's father, former President George Bush, is scheduled to stump in Holland, Grand Rapids and Detroit on Monday. The candidate himself campaigned Friday at a factory in Macomb County, the mostly blue-collar suburban sprawl north of Detroit that has been hard-fought in every election for three decades.
Using some of the most pointed language of his campaign, the Texan sought to deny Mr. Gore any credit for the nation's current prosperity. The New Economy, he said in a mocking tone, "was not created in a Senate subcommittee or vice presidential commission."
But Michigan's referendum on school vouchers has complicated things. The voucher question has prompted Roman Catholic parishes, which support vouchers because they could bring state aid to parochial schools, to press their members to turn out to vote. Because many Catholics vote Democratic, this could be to Mr. Gore's advantage. And the voucher issue has apparently kept Mr. McCain from campaigning with Mr. Bush in this state.
Mr. McCain won the Michigan Republican primary on Feb. 22 and remains more popular here than either Mr. Gore or Mr. Bush. He supports vouchers. Gov. John Engler, at least the nominal leader of the Bush campaign in Michigan, opposes them. Mr. Bush, fearful of exacerbating the split in Republican ranks that Mr. Engler's stance has opened, has soft-pedaled his own backing for vouchers, describing them as a matter for state decisions.
The Bush strategists have been leery of close ties with Mr. McCain here. The senator has made commercials for the voucher proposal, but not for Mr. Bush. He signed up to campaign with Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, in Michigan this week, and with Mr. Bush in Maine, but not in Michigan, though the 650,000 primary voters who backed Mr. McCain could decide who ends up with the state's 18 electoral votes.
Prof. David Rohde of Michigan State University said the McCain voters' intentions were a puzzle. Those who voted for him on personality grounds, he theorized, might find Mr. Bush more appealing; those who voted for him because of his backing for campaign finance reform might prefer Mr. Gore, who has promised to back the legislation that Mr. McCain is co-sponsoring.
But what of the Democrats who crossed over into the Republican primary chiefly to give a political black eye to Mr. Engler? No one can say.
This year, no group is too small to be courted. In the second debate, Mr. Bush said pointedly that the United States should be receptive to Arab nations' views in framing its policies in the Middle East, and he also mentioned Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, a prominent Lebanese-American. The Arab-American Political Action Committee and the Arab-American and Chaldean Leadership Council swiftly issued endorsements. Metropolitan Detroit has the nation's largest concentration of Arab-Americans, centered in Dearborn.
The Arab groups have mailing lists of about 40,000 names, not many in a state with a population of 10 million. But Michigan elections can be tight -- the 1990 governor's race was decided by 17,000 votes -- and everything points to an exceptionally close finish to the presidential race. .
So the surrogates keep coming: not only family members but also the Rev. Jesse Jackson for Mr. Gore, hoping to fire up black voters; Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, also for Mr. Gore; Lee A. Iacocca, the former chairman of Chrysler (now DaimlerChrysler), hoping to convince auto workers that Mr. Gore, a foe of the internal combustion engine, is their foe, too; and Charlton Heston, president of the National Rifle Association, for Mr. Bush.
There is no need to pore over columns of numbers or count the V.I.P. visitors to get a feeling for how tinglingly tight the race is in Michigan. A stroll down Griffith, Gardner and Edwards Streets in Berkley, a town of 15,000 in Oakland County, west of Macomb, will do the trick nicely. A few blocks away from the National Shrine of the Little Flower, once served by the demagogic right-wing radio priest of the New Deal era, Father Charles E. Coughlin, it is evenly divided politically and full of habitual ticket-splitters.
The streets are lined with small, tidy frame houses with tiny gardens, carefully kept, many of them decorated this week for Halloween. Trees arch over the sidewalks. The families who live there are mostly lower middle class, and the neighborhood looks like a fulfillment of the old American maxim "work hard, save your money and you'll have a place of your own someday."
Hurrying to work at a charity resale shop, Roseanne Zielinski paused to tell a visitor that she was for Mr. Gore because she sensed that "he's for the smaller person like me."
"We have my mother in a nursing home we can't afford," she said. "When you're a little guy you worry about getting through the next day, not about the big, complicated issues."
But William Murchison, who retired as a social studies teacher at Warren Mott High School after 31 years, described the choice in less black-and-white terms. He was concerned, he said, about the possible return of big government if Mr. Gore were elected; "like inflation," he added, "you have to fight it all the time, and Gore seems to have a half-dozen programs for every problem."
On the other hand, Mr. Murchison said, "I'm concerned that Bush may have a vacancy at the center -- he may just not be quite up to the job."
In the end, he said, he would probably vote for Mr. Bush, but not with any enthusiasm.
Pauline Jordan, who was out shopping, said she was a Bush backer as well, because of his personality.
"I like Mr. Bush because he's down to earth and human," she said. "Mr. Gore is too obnoxious."
With the outcome so delicately poised, turnout is crucial. Turnout is always crucial in Michigan, to hear the politicians and union leaders tell it, but this time, said Professor Rohde of Michigan State, "it might even turn out to be true, because it might give one candidate or another an extra percentage point or two."
Ed Sarpolus of the Epic-MRA polling group said that polling detail showed strong crosscurrents. About 3 percent of Republicans who previously seemed likely to sit out the election appear to have been newly energized, he said. The most reliably Democratic voters, African-Americans, seem slightly less motivated to back Mr. Gore than they were to back most Democratic presidential nominees, he said, but Catholic Democrats seem likely to vote in considerable numbers.
Events abroad, the stock market or other unforeseen developments could change the course of the race everywhere. But there is a special twist here that does not apply in most places: an extra day off for Election Day that the United Auto Workers negotiated for its members for the first time this year. It is myth, as Douglas A. Fraser, the union's retired president, remarked in conversation this week, to suggest that union leaders "could ever make their members vote in lockstep." But the day off might provide badly needed volunteer manpower for the Democrats, whose own party organization is weak here.
 
About the Series
 
A series of articles last month examined four swing states -- Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan -- that are likely to be critical in the presidential race. This is the third of four articles revisiting the race in those states.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura Bush, the wife of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, and Barbara Bush, his mother, kicked off their "W Stands for Women" drive in Michigan last week, an effort to cut into Vice President Al Gore's lead among women. Mr. Gore told a a rally in Flint, Mich., that now is the time "to keep creating jobs." (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (73%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GRAND RAPIDS DIECRAFTS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (73%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WOMEN (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); GOVERNORS (57%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); APPLE, R W JR AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



603 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Albright Arrives in North Korea to Test the Waters for Clinton

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea, Monday, Oct. 23

 BODY:
The most senior American official to visit North Korea since the end of the Korean War nearly 50 years ago, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright landed here today to a bare-bones arrival ceremony on a gray, balmy fall morning.
With a large portrait of the nation's Communist founder, Kim Il Sung, peering down from the airport terminal, Dr. Albright was greeted by a deputy foreign minister, Kim Gye Kwon, and presented with a slender sheath of flowers by an 8-year-old boy wearing the red kerchief of the Communist Youth League. 
 No public words were exchanged, and there were no bands or crowds for the start of a two-day stay that the White House hopes will result in a trip by President Clinton, perhaps as soon as next month.
But Dr. Albright's arrival marked the distance the administration has come in its relations with the world's last Stalinist redoubt -- a distance traveled also in past months by Washington's allies and in particular by South Korea, whose president, Kim Dae Jung, paid a momentous visit to North Korea in June.
In 1994, the United States was ready to go to war with North Korea over evidence that it was preparing to manufacture nuclear weapons. By contrast, Dr. Albright's visit is to test how far relations can be improved and to see if North Korea is ready to stop missile development and freeze its missile flight tests, officials said.
The United States also wants North Korea to stop exporting its long-range missiles, a business that nets this virtually collapsed economy its main supply of hard currency.
On the secretary's plane here, a senior State Department official said Dr. Albright would be addressing "serious" ideas brought to Washington this month by a senior North Korean military official, Jo Myong Rok. "We believe the North Koreans may be prepared to take significant steps," the official said.
The official declined to give details, but said Dr. Albright wanted to "better understand where North Korea wants to head."
The Albright visit was not expected to yield any agreements, the official said.
But in essence, the administration hopes that before Mr. Clinton leaves office, he can fulfill a policy developed and outlined for him late last year by his special envoy for North Korea, former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry.
According to the report, the United States would normalize relations with North Korea, relax sanctions and take other "positive steps" if the government in Pyongyang "moved to eliminate its nuclear and long-range missile threats."
The centerpiece of Dr. Albright's visit is a promised session with the country's leader, Kim Jong Il. American officials argue that Mr. Kim makes all major decisions himself and that the only way to judge the worth of North Korean proposals is through a meeting with him. Mr. Kim declined to meet with Mr. Perry in 1999.
The schedule released by the State Department for Dr. Albright does not include an appointment with Mr. Kim, but officials said the meeting was likely to take place on Tuesday morning.
Dr. Albright's first impressions of this isolated and impoverished country could come only from the 20-minute drive in a limousine that had been especially driven in from South Korea through the demilitarized zone that separates the two Koreas.
Her motorcade monopolized the four-lane highway from the airport into the capital proper, and passed brown fields that had recently been harvested. Korean officials accompanying reporters said the crop was poor this year, first because of drought and then because of an August typhoon.
Stiff policemen, dressed in turquoise uniforms and holding candy-striped batons pointing in the direction of the capital, directed the motley collection of vehicles. Billboards bearing large images of Kim Il Sung, the father of the current leader, carried the slogan, "Let's pay greatest respects to Chairman Kim."
On the outskirts of the city, children strolled to school for the start of class at 8 a.m.. A few people cycled, but most people walked, apparently to work. Several women wore high heels, but most had sensible tennis shoes with colored skirts and blouses.
In the city center, the policemen gave way to policewomen in snappy turquoise Bermuda shorts who looked sternly ahead as they searched for traffic on streets almost devoid of cars.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright was welcomed today on her arrival at the airport in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION KOREAN WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); KIM JONG IL (79%); JO MYONG ROK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



604 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
City Is More Than Where A Subway Is

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
TURN for just a moment from Series to Subway.
New York City's subway system is a phenomenon. According to New York City Transit, it moves more than 4 million people a day; covers more than 720 miles of track; operates, with buses, on an annual operating budget of $3.25 billion; accounts for much of the city's remarkably low energy consumption, and charges a maximum of $1.50 a ride. 
 So, a question: when did you last hear either presidential candidate even mention the word subway, uncoupled from the World Series? Too parochial?
O.K., when did you last hear either of them utter the phrase mass transit?
Still too New York-centric? It shouldn't be, given the nationwide problems of air pollution and traffic congestion, an always looming oil crisis and the country's love affair with gas guzzlers.
But this is silly, George W. Bush and Albert Gore are not going to talk about the A train, BART or the Loop. So we move on to a few more unmentionables, because what we are really getting at -- shamelessly using the Subway Series as a hook -- is the silence of both candidates on matters of particular importance to urban America.
Some issues deemed worthy of their attention affect everybody: education, Social Security, tax policies, foreign affairs, the military, trust, character, campaign finances. But how about housing, including subsidized housing; the undesirable side effects of welfare revision (there are some); immigration, besides border control; the fate of public hospitals; the failure of the "drug war"; the penal system; and, yes, traffic and pollution.
None are exclusively city issues, but they are of particular concern to city residents. Hence, we don't hear much about them.
Because cities no longer matter the way they used to. Census figures show that in 1998, the 100 largest cities (those with 185,000 people or more) made up less than a fifth of the country's population, and many of those cities are actually suburbs. The 40 largest cities, with populations of 400,000 or more (ranging from Fresno, Calif., and Atlanta to New York City) accounted for just 14 percent of the country.
And that's population, not voters. Turnout in cities is lower than average because many residents are immigrants who cannot vote or do not vote in large numbers; generally, neither do blacks and Hispanics, who are concentrated in cities.
Candidates want votes and increasingly those votes come from suburbia. The standard political calculus now assumes that 65 percent of the national vote is suburban or the social equivalent (for example, Staten Island in New York); 20 percent is urban and 15 percent is rural.
"Democrats treat the traditional urban population as if were already in their camp and assume they can only antagonize people who are undecided by bringing up urban issues," said George E. Peterson, senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington. "And Republicans are going more for the suburban vote."
Hence, the decline of the urban agenda, said Charles E. Schumer, New York's junior senator, adding, "That doesn't just hurt urban areas, it hurts America."
It's also shortsighted. In a global economy, where a factory in China affects jobs in New Jersey, it is no stretch to presume that what happens in New York or Chicago or Los Angeles can influence what happens in suburbia. It is in Suffolk County on Long Island where immigrant workers have aroused resentment and even violence.
THE presidential candidates realize that education concerns all parents.
But the idea that no borders separate cities from suburbs has somehow not been applied to other issues. If it had, we might have heard a Gore-Bush exchange about federal housing vouchers for low-income people, or how to encourage the decline in the number of out-of-wedlock births among teenage girls, or how to reduce urban traffic and the waste of energy with tolls, night deliveries or, yes, mass transit.
Nor do we hear about the long-term effects of the welfare overhaul. One would think there are only happy consequences. In fact social scientists worry that unless former welfare recipients who are now employed get food stamps or child care or job training, they will not move out of marginal jobs and may even backslide.
"There are lots of things they don't want to discuss," said Robert I. Lerman, an economist at American University. "My own view is that political leaders should raise consciousness so once raised, they can pick up on what seems to be a good idea and run with it."
Fine concept. Would work well in a campaign, no? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); SUBURBS (88%); IMMIGRATION (86%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HOSPITALS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); CENSUS (65%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); PRISONS (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); PUBLIC HOUSING (64%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



605 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Zagat Survey Reflects Restaurant Boom

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
With New York's restaurant boom showing no signs of abating, a record-setting 311 restaurants opened in the city in the last year, according to the latest edition of the Zagat Survey, which is available today. The average number of openings since 1996 has been 273 a year.
At the same time, the number of restaurants that closed fell, for the third year in a row. A total of 89 restaurants shut their doors, compared with 136 in 1996, the survey said. 
 Among the departures were La Reserve in Midtown, Rosemarie's in TriBeCa, Wally and Joseph's in the theater district and the venerable Fraunces Tavern, where George Washington bade farewell to his officers in 1783.
Tim Zagat, the publisher of the Zagat surveys, said that as many as 20 new upscale restaurants are scheduled to open this fall, all of them planned long before the stock market began to falter.
"If the economy sours," Mr. Zagat said, "some of the restaurants making a fortune right now will make less money. There won't be a crash, but it will slow the growth." He said the increasing number of women in the work force had made eating out a fundamental part of American life.
As might be expected, the cost of haute cuisine is also rising. The survey counted 21 restaurants with a typical tab of $70 or more (not including the new Alain Ducasse on Central Park South, where the fixed-price menu costs $160,) compared with 9 such restaurants in 1999. The average cost of a restaurant meal was $35, making New York the most expensive of the 39 domestic markets covered by Zagat. The average for the nation was $24.
Some food critics are skeptical of the value of the Zagat Survey's ratings, which are drawn from questionnaires distributed at law firms, investment banks and other places with employees who are likely to dine out often. But Malcolm M. Knapp, a New York restaurant consultant, described the guide as "a pretty good reflection of where things are."
About 600,000 copies of the New York survey were sold last year, Mr. Zagat said.
The data was compiled from 20,424 questionnaires. The respondents ate out an average of 3.6 times a week, an increase of more than 10 percent since last year. Increasingly popular restaurant areas included Brooklyn, Harlem and the meatpacking district.
People responding to the survey also said they left bigger tips this year, an average of about 18 percent, with half reporting tips of 20 percent or more.
For the fifth year in a row, Union Square Cafe was voted the most popular restaurant. It was followed by Gramercy Tavern, Gotham Bar and Grill, Aureole and Le Bernardin, which was also voted tops in food.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: More to digest in the Zagat Survey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ZAGAT SURVEY ZAGAT SURVEY REFLECTS RESTAURANT (94%); NEW YORK'S RESTAURANT (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZAGAT SURVEY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MENU PRICES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (67%); WOMEN WORKERS (66%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



606 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE POLL;
In Final Days, Voters Still Wrestle With Doubts on Bush and Gore

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Even after absorbing three debates and months of campaigning, American voters are thoroughly ambivalent about their choices for president, still vexed by doubts about Vice President Al Gore's sincerity and Gov. George W. Bush's preparedness for the White House, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
While the survey found that voters viewed Mr. Gore as more caring, closer to them on issues and generally more capable than Mr. Bush, they did not fully embrace him. Many perceive that Mr. Gore is too smart for his own good and that in the debates he spent too much time showing off his knowledge and not enough talking about his personal side. 
 Mr. Bush helped his candidacy in the debates, the poll shows, but still inspires discomfort. Nearly half of those surveyed said he was ill prepared for the presidency, and they voiced particular doubts about his ability to navigate international crises like the one in the Middle East. Most respondents said Mr. Bush would hand off responsibilities of such crises to his advisers, while Mr. Gore would be personally involved.
Perhaps because of these lingering reservations, neither candidate has established an appreciable edge 15 days before the election in what has become the closest presidential contest since 1980, and 1960 before that. Among likely voters, Mr. Bush draws 44 percent, with 42 percent for Mr. Gore. Ralph Nader is supported by 4 percent of the likely voters, and Patrick J. Buchanan just 1 percent.
The nationwide telephone poll of 1,010 registered voters was conducted Oct. 18 to Oct. 21. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, leaving Mr. Bush's edge statistically insignificant.
The gap between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore has narrowed day by day. The more time that passed from the final debate, which was last Tuesday, the more people seemed to like Mr. Gore. Mr. Bush's widest margin was on Wednesday, the first day of the poll.
By the last two days of the four-day poll, Mr. Gore had a bare edge over Mr. Bush. That movement is another manifestation of how the support for both candidates is fluid -- and how extraordinarily competitive the race is.
While the national numbers are critical in helping to explain the overall dynamic of the race -- and pinpointing the candidates' strengths and vulnerabilities -- the election will be won or lost on who piles up the most victories, and electoral votes, in swing states. Polls in several states found that neither candidate has a commanding lead in electoral votes.
There are signs that the seesaw nature of the race has stirred interest in the campaign. Sixty percent of those surveyed said they would describe the campaign as interesting.
Even with the slight day-to-day upticks for Mr. Gore, there are several signs that Mr. Bush benefited more from the televised debates. Voters surveyed were slightly more likely to say the debates made them feel better about a Bush presidency than a Gore presidency.
Before the first debate, voters said they expected Mr. Gore to win the election. Now, by a slight margin, they expect Mr. Bush to win. More than half of the respondents said Mr. Bush was spending more time explaining what he would do as president than attacking Mr. Gore. Before the first debate, fewer than half said that of the governor.
The voters surveyed were split over whether anything from the debates had helped them settle on a candidate. More than eight out of 10 voters surveyed said they had learned nothing from the debates that led them to change their minds about whom to support.
The survey also shed light on the roughly 8 percent of voters who say they have not decided. They are a diverse lot and are not leaning more toward one candidate or another. Nine percent of women are undecided, as are 6 percent of men. Voters who came of age during the Reagan administration, who are now in the 30 to 44 age group, account for the most undecided voters of all age groups, 11 percent. Seven percent of people who live in the suburbs have not decided, nor have 5 percent of Republicans, 7 percent of Democrats and 10 percent of independents.
In follow-up interviews yesterday, many poll respondents expressed misgivings even about candidates they intend to support.
"This is a tough vote this time," said John Ryan, 61, a high school teacher from Beverly, Mass. "The parties have stuck these two candidates in our faces and you have to take the lesser of two evils."
Although Mr. Ryan is a Democrat who plans to vote for Mr. Gore, he groused: "Gore looks like somebody molded out of clay. He's not warm or genuine. Bush might be a friendlier guy and easier to be with, but he either runs out of thoughts or runs out of ways to express them when he's asked a question."
Richard Koch, 83, a part-time accountant in Milwaukee, said he was voting for Mr. Bush. But he, too, is not satisfied with the choices.
"My uneasiness comes mostly from the fact that he is not world-wise politically," Mr. Koch said of Mr. Bush. "This includes foreign policy and basic economics, among other things. He doesn't have the background in these things and hasn't indicated that he really knows what he's talking about. The reason I would vote for him is that I don't think much of Gore. He changes his positions to temper the moment."
Indeed, a thread throughout the poll is that support for Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore seems halfhearted, with 4 in 10 of each man's own supporters saying they had reservations about their candidate. More of Mr. Bush's backers expressed enthusiasm than did Mr. Gore's; about half for Mr. Bush and about 4 in 10 for the vice president.
Voters who were polled said there were significant differences between the men, and that they had more to do with issues than personality. Those who said the principal differences were about personality were three times more likely to say they would vote for Mr. Bush. Those who cited issues were slightly more likely to say they supported Mr. Gore.
Forty-eight percent of those questioned said Mr. Bush had more honesty and integrity than most people in public life, compared with 42 percent who said the same of Mr. Gore.
As the two nominees fight for an edge, Mr. Bush still holds an advantage among men, while Mr. Gore has one among women. Voters whose household income is less than $50,000 a year prefer Mr. Gore, while those with higher incomes favor Mr. Bush, according to the poll.
The candidates are splitting support from centrist voters. Mr. Bush does significantly better among independent voters than Mr. Gore, but the vice president does much better among moderates. Voters who live in the suburbs are closely divided, though Mr. Gore holds a slight edge.
The findings made clear that voters are uneasy about Mr. Gore as a person. More than half the voters questioned said that in general, Mr. Gore tells people what he thinks they want to hear rather than what he really believes.
But Mr. Gore's weaknesses were seen by voters as Mr. Bush's greatest strengths. Voters surveyed said that Mr. Bush is more of a straight talker than Mr. Gore, and that the governor usually says what he really believes. But voters do not see Mr. Bush to be as caring for the average person as Mr. Gore.. And the governor continues to be dogged by the fact that voters see him as far less ready to handle domestic and international matters.
In the callbacks to voters yesterday, many voiced more negative than positive things even about the candidates they supported.
"My uneasiness comes from Al Gore being in the shadows of Bill Clinton," said Renita Pearson, 40, a nurse from Birmingham, Ala., who planned to vote for Mr. Gore anyway. "I just have this feeling that he won't be able to be as charismatic in foreign negotiations as Clinton. When I hear him speak, I kind of get a condescending feel regarding us as Americans. He rarely uses the words 'our' or 'we' when he speaks, to indicate inclusiveness with those he is addressing."
Echoing many other respondents, Melvin Greene, 42, a physical therapist from Brunswick, Ga., said: "I'm planning on voting for Al Gore because basically I think he is the lesser of two evils. George Bush seems to cater to the wealthy."
Victoria Saulia, 78, a retired insurance clerk from Brooklyn, N.Y., was not enthusiastic about her candidate, Mr. Bush. "I don't know if Bush has enough experience for the job," she said. "Just because he's the former president's son doesn't make him a good candidate. I watched the first two debates and I didn't get a magnetic, visionary feeling from him." She added: "I have to vote and I'm a registered Republican. So right now, that's the only reason I'm voting for him."

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Wednesday through Saturday with 1,279 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 1,010 said they were registered to vote.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
Some findings regarding voting are additionally weighted in terms of an overall "probable electorate," which uses responses to questions dealing with voting history, attention to the campaign, and likelihood of voting in 2000 as a measure of the probability of respondents' turning out in November. The method assumes approximately 50 percent turnout in November.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Voters on the Candidates, Point by Point
MUTUAL STRENGTHS
 
Voters who say the candidate . . .
Has the skills needed to negotiate with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress to get things done
GORE: 68%
BUSH: 60%
 
Has strong qualities of leadership
GORE: 67%
BUSH: 70%
 
Has been spending more time in his campaign explaining what he would do as president rather than attacking his opponent
GORE: 61%
BUSH: 55%
 
GORE ADVANTAGES
 
Voters who say the candidate . . .
Has prepared himself well enough for the job of president and all the issues a president has to face
GORE: 73%
BUSH: 49%
 
Has the skills needed to negotiate effectively with world leaders
GORE: 70%
BUSH: 49%
 
Cares about the needs and problems of people like yourself
GORE: 66%
BUSH: 55%
 
Has the ability to deal wisely with an international crisis
GORE: 57
BUSH: 45
 
BUSH ADVANTAGES
 
Voters who say the candidate . . .
Explains his position on the issues rather than trying to show how much he knows
GORE: 52%
BUSH: 68%
 
Tries to make sure people know what kind of person he is rather than trying to make sure people know that he has a lot of experience
GORE: 29%
BUSH: 51%
 
Says what he really believes most of the time rather than what he thinks people want to hear
GORE: 37%
BUSH: 48%
 
MUTUAL WEAKNESS
 
Voters who . . .
Feel uneasy about the candidate
GORE: 43%
BUSH: 43%
 
Think the candidate has more honesty and integrity than most people in public life
GORE: 42%
BUSH: 48%
 
Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 18-21 with 1,010 registered voters. (pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEBATING POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); STATISTICS (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; NADER, RALPH; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



607 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: WHOSE HOLY LAND? THE OVERVIEW;
ARAB STATES TAKE DIPLOMATIC STEPS TO PUNISH ISRAEL

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Eager to demonstrate a get-tough attitude toward Israel while keeping the door ajar to a resumption of peace talks, Arab leaders said today that they would freeze all but formal diplomatic contact with Israel until it made tangible progress toward a final settlement with the Palestinians.
In a strongly worded but carefully calibrated statement signed by all but one of the 22 members of the Arab League, the leaders accused Israel of committing atrocities in the last three weeks of clashes with Palestinians. They urged the United Nations to set up a war crimes tribunal to judge Israeli actions and pledged vast aid to relieve the battered Palestinian economy. 
 But they stopped well short of renouncing the peace treaties that Egypt and Jordan have already signed with Israel and did not suggest that the Palestinians themselves reject further negotiations in pursuit of an independent state.
Instead, the Arab League -- which at its first summit meeting in four years was under scrutiny from the Palestinians and their supporters throughout the Arab world -- said it would end its participation in all official and unofficial efforts to integrate Israel into the economy of the Middle East.
The low-level diplomatic contacts that have started in the last few years between Arab countries and Israel, including trade and political exchanges, are to be suspended.
As violence continued in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, leaving at least four more Palestinians dead, Prime Minister Ehud Barak formally declared a "timeout" from the peace effort, though it is unclear exactly how that will change a situation in which daily clashes have already suspended any movement toward peace. Page A12.
"We are not going to let Israel do whatever it wants," Foreign Minister Amr Mousa of Egypt declared, speaking to reporters. "We have all this pressure on us, telling us that Israel needs to feel a part of the region. Well, if it wants to be part of the region, it has to act according to the law."
The statement from the meeting did not directly criticize the United States for supporting Israel, as the leaders had in their public speeches. But it took a swipe at Washington, insisting that Jerusalem should not be recognized as the capital of Israel.
President Clinton said in July that he might consider moving the United States Embassy from Tel Aviv, where most countries have their diplomatic representation, to Jerusalem. The Arab leaders said they would break relations with any country that did so before negotiations resolved Jerusalem's status as a disputed city.
The Arab leaders seemed conscious that this summit meeting was a test of credibility for the Arab League, which in its 55-year history has been fractured, uniting most easily over the treatment of the Palestinians. Mr. Mousa, acting as an unofficial spokesman for the leaders gathered here, took care to underline that Arab governments were not indifferent to the anger in their streets at Israeli conduct.
Libya proclaimed itself the voice of stifled Arab masses yearning for a complete break with Israel. Its delegates walked out of the meeting a few hours after it convened on Saturday, dismissing the Arab League deliberations as an oratorical exercise that would merely result in empty threats to Israel.
Arab leaders generally regard Libya and its leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, as a perpetually maverick element in their midst, but they clearly feared that their meeting might be perceived in much the same terms by their own people.
In the Arab world, public preoccupation with the bloodshed in the Palestinian territories -- in which more than 120 people have died, all but 8 of them Arabs -- has set off mass demonstrations and open calls for war. Many commentators on Arabic television and in newspapers have speculated that the protests could turn against authoritarian Arab governments.
Again and again, Mr. Mousa found himself on the defensive when confronted by Arab journalists, who repeatedly questioned whether the Arab League was truly in touch with the public mood and would follow through on its promises.
"We -- all of us here -- are part of the Arab public," he responded, adding that "all Arabs -- left, right and center and whoever represents them, whether governments, the street or students -- are angry."
"We mean business here," Mr. Mousa declared.
Immediately after the meeting, Tunisia announced that it would shut its political liaison office in Tel Aviv and close the corresponding Israeli office in Tunis. A government statement said the break was a response to "bloody Israeli aggression against the fraternal Palestinian people."
Oman has already closed a small Israeli trade office that was operating in its capital. Qatar, said today that it would "calmly" consider the possibility of closing the Israeli trade office in its capital. Morocco has a junior diplomat still stationed in Tel Aviv.
The Arab leaders, who have unanimously backed the Palestinian demand for Arab sovereignty over East Jerusalem, also noted that Jerusalem's status was internationally acknowledged as a subject for negotiation. As a group, the leaders also said they would boycott any official or unofficial gatherings with Israeli on regional economic cooperation. That freeze is likely to have more of a political than a practical effect, since Syria and Lebanon have boycotted such meetings ever since they were initiated after the Madrid peace conference in 1991 and the talks have been infrequent.
It is not clear if Arab nations will avoid going to international gatherings attended by Israel, like economic development conferences sponsored by the European Union.
The Cairo gathering, the first Arab League summit meeting in a decade to include Iraq, brought together the divergent trends in the Arab world. Persian Gulf kings and princes, wearing long white robes and gilt-edged gauzy cloaks, mingled with Arab presidents in business suits.
But their old divisions were not healed. Representatives of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia refused even to make eye contact with delegates from Iraq, which was banished from Arab League summit conferences after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
The Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in his trademark military uniform, looked drawn and shrunken, far from the lively and excitable figure he once cut at Arab meetings. During the televised speeches, he frequently appeared detached, and when the leaders gathered between sessions to chat and embrace, he was often seen standing alone.
While Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip may have been dissatisfied by the response to their uprising, Mr. Arafat could, to a certain extent, take the meeting as a sign that he was back in the Arab fold.
He had lost the financial support of the Gulf nations after he backed Iraq in the Gulf war. With their own people supporting the Palestinians very publicly, Arab leaders decided to offer Mr. Arafat their full political support and promised $1 billion in aid to protect Islamic and Arab properties in Jerusalem and to help the families of Palestinians killed or wounded in the fighting with Israel.
The session provided a glimpse of the shape of future disputes among the Arab leaders. Iraq and Syria, using different language, urged the Arab states to develop a long-term strategy that would approach Israel as a rival military and economic power.
The young Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, revived a perennial theme: that only by combining their financial and military power could the Arabs forge what he called a "peace of the strong" rather than a peace founded on the perceived weakness of Arab nations. Taking a different tack, Iraq proposed a vision of the Arab world that would reject alliances with the United States.
As things stand, Egypt, which commands the strongest military in the Arab world, maintains close ties with the United States, Israel's leading ally, and conducts joint military exercises with American troops.
Most of the Persian Gulf states also have military cooperation agreements with the United States. The oil weapon, used to squeeze the West after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, has been disavowed by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, which are close American allies.
A few of the Arab leaders, notably the young kings of Morocco and Jordan, took note of the changed circumstances. They argued that military consolidation was outdated, that the world around the Middle East had organized itself into common markets and that the Arabs should concentrate on competing economically and technologically.
This summit declaration went a few steps further than the statement agreed on after the last meeting of Arab heads of state, in 1996. Convened after the election of the rightist Benjamin Netanyahu as prime minister of Israel, the Arab leaders then warned Israel that they would adjust the pace of normalizing relations according to progress in the peace talks.
The public theme of this meeting was that peace negotiations, in the form in which they have been conducted since the Oslo agreement in 1993, was no longer valid. Mr. Mousa dismissed Israel's peacemaking activity as little more than "shuttling to Washington and photo opportunities."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; ARAB LEAGUE LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; ARAB LEAGUE LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; JERUSALEM; LIBYA; EGYPT; JORDAN; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RIOTS (70%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN EHUD BARAK (58%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



608 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: President Draws Crowds and Money for First Lady's Race

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Oct. 22

 BODY:
President Clinton flew into New York today to lend his assistance to the Senate campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton -- and the presidential campaign of Al Gore -- traveling from one end of the state to the other as he denounced Republicans and declared that his wife and the vice president would assure the continuance of his policies once he leaves office in January.
"You will never know, because I don't have the words to say, how hard she has worked, because I don't have the words to say," Mr. Clinton, his voice hushed and trembling, said at a rally here tonight at Hofstra University. "This is the first time in 26 years that they're having an election and I'm not on the ballot. But I care more about this election than any one I've been involved in." 
 "I have never known anybody else in public life who had the combination of brains and heart and caring and tenacity and ability to imagine solutions and get people together and get things done than Hillary has," Mr. Clinton said, his hand thrust in his pocket, as he spoke over rolling rounds of applause. "She will be a worthy successor to Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Robert F. Kennedy."
At that, the crowd -- which had interrupted Mr. Clinton's remarks with shouts of "four more years" -- rose to its feet. Mr. Clinton turned and tightly hugged his wife, as the first couple's daughter, Chelsea, applauded from her seat behind them on the stage.
Mr. Clinton's appearance here came on what was by far his most active day of campaigning for his wife since she entered the race to become New York's junior senator a year and a half ago. It took him from Watertown, to Binghamton, to Long Island and, finally, to Manhattan.
Mr. Clinton appeared at four fund-raising events for his wife's campaign, including two at which he was joined by Mrs. Clinton: tonight's $50-a-head rally and an Elton John concert later this evening at the Hudson Theater in Midtown, where tickets went for up to $5,000 each. Mrs. Clinton's aides said that the president had raised about $530,000 for her campaign at the four events.
But Mr. Clinton's trip today was not so much about raising money for his wife's campaign -- particularly given the expense associated with bringing a president to town to campaign for any candidate -- as it was a calculated escalation in Mrs. Clinton's strategy of casting the contest in sharp party terms. She pressed into service the elected official who may well be the single most popular Democrat in New York, to try to assure that, in the words of one aide, Democratic voters "come home," and cast their ballots for her instead of her Republican opponent, Representative Rick A. Lazio, in two weeks.
Mr. Clinton's rollicking and emotional introduction of his wife tonight seemed to be a tonic to Mrs. Clinton, who discarded her normally phlegmatic campaign speaking style and laced into her opponent.
"My opponent goes around saying, 'Eight years is enough,' " Mrs. Clinton said. "The first time I heard it, I thought well maybe I had misheard. Eight years of a great economy, eight years of declining crime rates, eight years of improving education scores, eight years of expanding health care. Where is he living and who is he representing?"
Mr. Lazio, who spent the day campaigning upstate, attacked Mr. Clinton for leaving Washington to campaign for his wife, suggesting that he was neglecting his official duties to tend to his wife's political career. "The Middle East burns and the president is flying around at taxpayer expense to campaign, as does Mrs. Clinton," he said.
Mr. Lazio's senior campaign adviser, Mike Murphy, said the president's appearance here would hurt the first lady because, he said, it would reinforce the feeling that Mr. Clinton was "trying to shove his wife down their throats."
Mr. Murphy described the president's visit as "a million-dollar gift from the government," questioning why federal taxpayers should be paying for Mr. Clinton's visit to help out his wife, and why local New York taxpayers should be paying for the security costs associated with a White House visit.
"They are dragging the president and his imperial staff all over upstate New York, blatantly campaigning for his wife," Mr. Murphy said. "We're talking about the million-dollar tab."
The White House press secretary, Jake Siewert, said that Mrs. Clinton's campaign was reimbursing the federal government for Mr. Clinton's trip, using the standard reimbursement formula that is used when Mr. Clinton makes a political trip. "There's nothing official on this trip, so it's actually 100 percent paid for by the campaign," Mr. Siewert said.
Although the purpose of Mr. Clinton's visit was to help his wife, there were times when he seemed equally preoccupied with the fate of Mr. Gore, who polls suggest is in a tougher fight against George W. Bush than his wife is against Mr. Lazio.
At times tonight, Mr. Clinton sounded as if he were on stage with Mr. Bush during one of the presidential debates. He offered attacks on Mr. Bush that Mr. Gore had not offered during the actual debates.
He said that Republicans had distorted Mr. Gore's position by asserting that he was in favor of confiscating guns from hunters, and he mocked the suggestion that voters should turn to Mr. Bush to end partisan wrangling in Washington."In other words they would like to be rewarded for the problem they created," he said.
President Clinton listed bills that had been passed by both sides under his administration, among them one that changed the welfare system, and said, "The partisanship has come from the other side."
If Mr. Clinton's remarks indicated a subtext of concern about the race to determine his successor, he did not suggest any worry about the state of his wife's campaign against Mr. Lazio. "You know, I've been on a tour of New York today," said the president, who is doing more campaigning on Mrs. Clinton's behalf on Monday. "I hear the sound of victory everywhere I go."
Mrs. Clinton appeared with her husband on a day in which she was clearly tending to her political base in a state in which registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by nearly 2 million.
She said that she welcomed an attack on her unsuccessful attempt to push through a national health care program during her first two years as first lady. Mr. Lazio raised the issue in a television advertisement last week. At a campaign stop upstate today, he said that the first lady's health care plan would have "crushed New York health care."
If Mr. Lazio wants to "talk about health care in the past, that of course is his choice," Mrs Clinton said. "He can spend his time talking about health care in 1993 and 1994. I am going to talk about health care in this year and what I would do next year."
In a brief question-and-answer session, Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Lazio was critical of her health plan because he had nothing to offer in its place.
"It is typical of the campaign that he has run," she said. "For months now, he hasn't put forth any plans of his own. He hasn't talked about what he would do to improve health care or improve the upstate economy. He has run away from his own record. And I think it is a clear example of him having nothing to say and running a campaign of insults."
Once again, she spent Sunday morning appearing at black churches in the metropolitan area. Later, in Greenburgh, she received the endorsement of the Million Mom March, a group that applauded her stand on gun regulation. Mr. Lazio supports some controls on the sale of guns but, unlike Mrs. Clinton, he does not support the registration of new guns and the licensing of gun owners.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood assisted Hillary Rodham Clinton yesterday at St. Paul Community Baptist Church in Brooklyn. Later, President Clinton joined her. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1); President Clinton was applauded by his wife and daughter last night at Hofstra University at a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton's Senate campaign. (Reuters)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) ROBERT F KENNEDY MEDICAL CENTER (51%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (83%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (83%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; NAGOURNEY, ADAM; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (89%); ELTON JOHN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



609 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Responding to Clashes, Arabs Narrow Israeli Ties
Arab leaders said they would freeze all but formal diplomatic contact with Israel until it made tangible progress toward a final settlement with the Palestinians, and they issued a statement accusing Israel of committing atrocities in recent clashes with Palestinians, urging the United Nations to set up a war crimes tribunal and pledging aid to relieve the Palestinian economy. A1
 
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel declared a "timeout" from the seven-year, American-brokered peace effort. To many, the declaration seemed academic. A12 

Mr. Barak announced an inquiry into the deaths of 13 Israeli Arabs and unveiled a development plan for Arab communities. Israeli Arab leaders met the plans with skepticism. A12
 
More Clues in Yemen Blast
American officials investigating the attack on the Cole that killed 17 American sailors said they had found three more safe houses, bringing the total to five, but cautioned against concluding that they were close to identifying the group responsible for the attack. A6
 
Canadian Calls for Elections
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada called for new elections, apparently counting on a booming economy and popular new tax cuts to make him the first Canadian leader since World War II to win a third consecutive mandate. A10
 
Albright Arrives in North Korea
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright was welcomed with little fanfare in Pyongyang. She is the most senior American official to visit North Korea since the end of the Korean War. A4
 
Peru Spy Chief Flies to Ecuador
Vladimiro Montesinos, the former Peruvian intelligence chief who had fled Peru for Panama to seek political asylum following accusations of corruption, left Panama for Ecuador, Panamanian officials said. A10
 
Narrow Choices in Ivory Coast
Ivory Coast held a presidential election 10 months after an initially popular military coup. The coup leader and four civilians were on the ballot, but the two largest political parties boycotted the election. A6
 
NATIONAL A14-22
 
Poll Finds Nagging Doubts About Both Bush and Gore
American voters are ambivalent about the two main presidential candidates, expressing nagging doubts about Vice President Al Gore's sincerity and Gov. George W. Bush's preparedness for the White House, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows. Among likely voters, Mr. Bush draws 44 percent, with 42 percent for Mr. Gore. Ralph Nader is supported by 4 percent of the likely voters, and Patrick J. Buchanan 1 percent. A1
 
President Clinton plunged into the presidential race, forcefully rebutting Mr. Bush's attacks on his administration and hinting that Mr. Gore had not sufficiently explained how his proposals differed from Mr. Bush's. A16
 
All but one of the nation's Republican governors traveled to Texas and promised to help propel Mr. Bush into the White House. They will make a three-day campaign trip across 25 hotly contested states carrying the message that Mr. Bush represents a pragmatic style of leadership distinct from the partisanship of Washington. A17
 
Mr. Gore, preaching at a Dallas church, said America must match its economic successes with a "prosperity of the spirit" that can only be nurtured through a renewed commitment to families and values. A17
 
Group Wants Nicer Campaigns
A bipartisan national group is asking judicial candidates to promise to follow new standards of conduct in an effort to limit aggressive campaigning for state judgeships. A18
 
Ecumenical Meeting Planned
The National Council of Churches, an organization that represents 35 Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches, plans to seek a meeting next year with Roman Catholics, evangelical Protestants and Pentecostals to discuss forms of cooperation and possibly a broader, more diverse coalition. A14
 
Sex Attracts Familiar Names
Spurred by changes in technology that make the distribution of pornography easier and court decisions that offer broad legal protection, the business of selling sex has become a $10 billion annual industry in the United States. Some of the biggest distributors of pornography on film and online include the country's most recognizable corporate names. A1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
President Lends a Hand To His Wife's Campaign
President Clinton flew into New York to lend his assistance to the Senate campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton -- and the presidential campaign of Al Gore -- traveling from one end of the state to the other as he denounced Republicans and declared that his wife and the vice president would ensure the continuance of his policies after he leaves office. B1
 
Representative Rick A. Lazio campaigned across central New York, hoping to inspire prospective voters, particularly in ethnic communities. Depending on the event, his speaking style can be reserved, even flat, or full of excitement. B5
 
EDUCATION 
 
More Work, Less Play
The increased academic demands on kindergartners has prompted a debate about how much is too much. Some teachers, parents and child development experts say the increased focus on reading and math has come at the expense of play, and risks souring children on school at an age when the goal has traditionally been to socialize them to it. A1
 
A Teacher Tells Tales
"Teachers' Lounge," a play by a teacher at Aviation High School in Long Island City, suggests that all roads to repairing public education eventually lead through the teachers' lounge, and that the ride can be rocky. B1
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-14
 
Yankees Win Again
The Yankees beat the Mets, 6-5, and lead the four-of-seven-game series by two victories to none. Game 3 is tomorrow as the series shifts to Shea Stadium. A1
 
Rams' Unbeaten Streak Ends
The Kansas City Chiefs defeated St. Louis, 54-34. The Rams also lost quarterback Kurt Warner, who broke a finger. D9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
G.E. Will Buy Honeywell
General Electric has agreed to buy Honeywell International, the diversified manufacturer, for about $45 billion in stock, capping several intense rounds of deal making that broke up an impending merger between United Technologies and Honeywell. A1
 
AT&T to Weigh Major Spinoffs
AT&T's board intends to consider a plan to divide the company into four parts and focus more closely on various segments of the fast-changing telecommunications market, people close to AT&T said. A1
 
PC Sales Growth Slows
The personal computer industry continued its torrid pace of worldwide growth in the third quarter, according to two reports to be released today. But growth has slowed in the United States, Canada and Europe; those regions show signs of saturation. C10
 
ZymoGenetics to Break Away
ZymoGenetics, one of the nation's oldest biotechnology companies, said it had arranged for $150 million in private financing to help it become independent from its parent firm, Novo Nordisk of Denmark. C12
 
Insurance Alliance in Japan
The Nippon Life Insurance Company, one of Japan's largest insurers, said it was seeking an alliance with three nonlife insurance companies that would create one of Japan's largest insurance groups. C14
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: The last lap; difficult days for Mideast peace; protectionism on the sly.
 
Columns:William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
Public Lives A14
Crossword E7
TV Listings E9
Metro Diary B2
Weather B7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); YEMEN (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (51%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); YEMEN (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); COUPS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); KOREAN WAR (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CORRUPTION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TAX LAW (66%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); BOYCOTTS (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (75%); EHUD BARAK (73%); JEAN CHRETIEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



610 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
In a Texas Church, Gore Campaigns for Morality, Values and 'Prosperity of the Spirit'

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. Oct. 22

 BODY:
Taking a Sabbath rest from his relentless focus on fiscal policy, Vice President Al Gore preached today that America must match its economic successes with a "prosperity of the spirit" that can only be nurtured through a renewed commitment to families and values.
In a speech laden with Scriptural references and delivered at the dedication of a Pentecostal megachurch in Dallas, Mr. Gore repeatedly emphasized that "the center of my life is faith and family." While he proposed few specific remedies, the vice president spoke of a "cultural pollution" that has despoiled the country's moral life and of "toxic entertainment that too often passes on the wrong values." 
 Though Mr. Gore has occasionally used such phrases before, his unabashed moralizing made for a striking departure from his campaign's recent focus on Social Security, tax cuts and economic growth. It continued the delicate blending of political messages and religious themes that has become a hallmark of the campaign by Mr. Gore and his running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut. "I believe that the purpose of life is to glorify God," Mr. Gore said in discussing environmental protection, "and we cannot fulfill that purpose if we are heaping contempt upon God's creation."
Adopting evangelical language, Mr. Gore, a Southern Baptist who considers himself born again, said the thriving economy provided the country with its greatest chance "to bring good news to the poor."
In an 18-minute address, the vice president quoted Scripture four times, recited portions of a hymn and recounted two Bible stories. In both content and tone, he waded into waters usually reserved for Republican politicians, a point made explicit by the presence at the same service of Pat Robertson, the Christian Coalition founder.
The man who brought those two disparate politicians under the same roof is Bishop T. D. Jakes, one of the country's most prominent televangelists. The occasion was the dedication of The Potter's House, a cavernous 8,000-seat sanctuary built in Dallas by Mr. Jakes's ministry.
Mr. Jakes is an African-American, as were most of his congregants today. He has an increasingly influential worldwide ministry, with many white followers as well, and his church's dedication was celebrated today with written messages from President Clinton and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, and with a speech by Coretta Scott King, the widow of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Many of Mr. Jakes's followers -- black and white -- are culturally conservative, and the bishop spoke at this year's Republican National Convention. But Mr. Gore, while not delivering an explicitly political speech, made it clear that he was not ceding those voters to Mr. Bush. While there may have been little audience for Mr. Gore's message in Texas, a state that Mr. Bush is heavily favored to win as a native son, today's service will eventually be seen by millions nationwide when it is broadcast on cable television.
Mr. Gore's speech in Dallas was the first stop on a 17-hour bicoastal journey that took him 3,000 miles, from Philadelphia to Dallas to Albuquerque and then on to Portland, Ore. He spoke briefly here at the opening of a national Hispanic cultural center. In his address to Mr. Jakes's church, Mr. Gore began by asserting that strong family life is "something more basic than all of our budget debates but somehow harder to achieve."
"I want you to know how deeply I care about strengthening our families," he said, mentioning his 30-year marriage and his devotion to his children and young grandson. "I want you to know that this is not just the heart of an agenda, it is the foundation of my life and my faith."
Mr. Gore won applause for recognizing that Americans are working longer hours even in the midst of the current prosperity, and that they have too little time to instill their children with "the right values with a right heart and a right spirit."
"In too many schools," he added, "discipline is eroding and many teachers spend their time on crowd control instead of reinforcing the lessons of good character and decency."
Mr. Gore embraced the concept of the social gospel, pledging that Americans "will not turn our backs on those who are suffering, whether they be in the Balkans or in south Dallas."
And he volunteered his views on the pervasiveness of sin and human susceptibility. "It is always hovering nearby," he said, feeling a preacher's rhythm, "and if our resistance is broken down and too much of our energies are consumed in trying to manufacture the body heat that ought to be held by the clothing of love and acceptance and emotional warmth, then we are more vulnerable to the sin that comes to our door."
For much of the remainder of this exceedingly tight campaign, Mr. Gore is likely to keep breakneck schedules like today's, his strategists said. Among the notable stops this week are two in Mr. Gore's home state of Tennessee, where some polls show that Mr. Bush is competitive, and in the traditional Democratic strongholds of West Virginia and Wisconsin. Clearly, the Gore camp would have liked to have put those states in their column by now.
Mr. Gore's strategists said today that internal polls suggest the race has been virtually static since Mr. Gore's poll ratings dipped after the first of the three presidential debates. After that debate, said Stanley Greenberg, Mr. Gore's pollster, the vice president lost support among women for stylistic reasons: "He was obviously very strong and aggressive in the first debate."
Mr. Gore's press secretary, Chris Lehane, said the Democratic nominee would keep the focus on issues by delivering speeches on major themes like the role of government, education, the Internet economy, energy and the environment, tax cuts, and health care. In keeping with the campaign's frequent use of "real people," Mr. Gore also will lead a series of kitchen-table discussions with parents, students and workers in their homes, Mr. Lehane said.
The election, Mr. Lehane said, will be decided on the issues, not balloon drops and rallies. "It is not a race for prom king," he said.
Today's speech at The Potter's House was one of several recent events aimed at encouraging turnout by black voters, who traditionally support Democrats by large margins.
As is frequently the case for Democratic office-seekers, the pulpits of black churches will be regular stops for Mr. Gore and his surrogates. Mr. Gore and Mr. Lieberman have held weekly conference calls with black ministers in the last four weeks, said Donna Brazile, Mr. Gore's campaign manager.
Ms. Brazile, an authority on turning out Democratic base voters, said the campaign was about to "really turn up the volume" with telephone calls, door-to-door canvassing, direct mail, radio advertising, sound trucks and fliers inserted in church bulletins. "We're waking up a base that needs hardly any persuasion, just motivation to get out," she said.
While the Gore campaign will use African-American mayors and members of Congress to tape radio advertisements and telephone messages, it has no plans to use President Clinton to do so despite his popularity in the black community, Ms. Brazile said. "I believe in the end that African-American voters, like all voters in the country, want to hear from Al Gore," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop T. D. Jakes leaned over his wife, Serita, to talk to Vice President Al Gore yesterday at the dedication of The Potter's House, a sanctuary built by Mr. Jakes's ministry in Dallas. Mr. Gore gave a speech at the service. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: T D I (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SACK, KEVIN AL GORE (94%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICK PERRY (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



611 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Affirmative Action: Cost and Benefit

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Michael M. Weinstein ("A Reassuring Scorecard for Affirmative Action," Editorial Observer, Oct. 17) is right that those of us who object on principle to racial discrimination are unlikely to have our minds changed by one study in the Journal of Economic Literature. 
 The study's finding that preferences in favor of particular groups increase the number of members who are hired, promoted and so forth is obvious. Moreover, these increases took place while discrimination against these groups was decreasing.
Mr. Weinstein says "the wide gap in SAT scores of black and white students admitted to selective universities" is not proof of discrimination. But there is more evidence than that. Studies by the Center for Equal Opportunity have shown that all over the country, whites and Asians with better scores and grades are turned down in favor of blacks and Hispanics with lower scores and grades.
Any benefit of affirmative action must be weighed against the social and economic costs of institutionalized discrimination.
 
ROGER CLEGG
General Counsel
Center for Equal Opportunity
Washington, Oct. 17, 2000
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CENTER FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CENTER FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); LAWYERS (66%); 

PERSON: CLEGG, ROGER MICHAEL M WEINSTEIN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



612 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4068 words

HEADLINE: EROTICA INC. -- A special report.;
Technology Sent Wall Street Into Market for Pornography

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: PROVO, Utah

 BODY:
The video-store chain that Larry W. Peterman owned in this valley of wide streets and ubiquitous churches carried the kind of rentals found anywhere in the country -- from Disney classics to films about the sexual adventures of nurses. Mr. Peterman built a thriving business until he was charged last year with selling obscene material and faced the prospect of bankruptcy and jail.
Just before the trial, Mr. Peterman's lawyer, Randy Spencer, came up with an idea while looking out the window of the courtroom at the Provo Marriott. He sent an investigator to the hotel to record all the sex films that a guest could obtain through the hotel's pay-per-view channels. He then obtained records on how much erotic fare people here were buying from their cable and satellite television providers. 
 As it turned out, people in Utah County, a place that often boasts of being the most conservative area in the nation, were disproportionately large consumers of the very videos that prosecutors had labeled obscene and illegal. And far more Utah County residents were getting their adult movies from the sky or cable than they were from the stores owned by Larry Peterman.
Why file criminal charges against a lone video retailer, Mr. Spencer argued, when some of the biggest corporations in America, including a hotel chain whose board of directors includes W. Mitt Romney, president of the Salt Lake City Olympics organizing committee, and a satellite broadcaster heavily backed by Rupert Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation, were selling the same product?
"I despise this stuff -- some of it is really raunchy," said Mr. Spencer, a public defender who described himself as a devout Mormon. "But the fact is that an awful lot of people here in Utah County are paying to look at porn. What that says to me is that we're normal."
It took only a few minutes for the jury to find Mr. Peterman not guilty on all charges. His case illustrates what has happened to an industry that used to be confined to the margins of commerce, in the seedy parts of most towns, run by people who never dreamed of taking their companies to Wall Street.
Spurred by changes in technology that make pornography easier to order into the home than pizza, and court decisions that offer broad legal protection, the business of selling sexual desire through images has become a $10 billion annual industry in the United States, according to Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass., and the industry's own Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Whatever the phenomenon may say about the nature of American society, the financial rewards are so great that some of the biggest distributors of explicit sex on film and online include the country's most recognizable corporate names.
The General Motors Corporation, the world's largest company, now sells more graphic sex films every year than does Larry Flynt, owner of the Hustler empire. The 8.7 million Americans who subscribe to DirecTV, a General Motors subsidiary, buy nearly $200 million a year in pay-per-view sex films from satellite, according to estimates provided by distributors of the films, estimates the company did not dispute.
EchoStar Communications Corporation, the No. 2 satellite provider, whose chief financial backers include Mr. Murdoch, makes more money selling graphic adult films through its satellite subsidiary than Playboy, the oldest and best-known company in the sex business, does with its magazine, cable and Internet businesses combined, according to public and private revenue accounts by the companies.
AT&T Corporation, the nation's biggest communications company, offers a hard-core sex channel called the Hot Network to subscribers to its broadband cable service. It also owns a company that sells sex videos to nearly a million hotel rooms. Nearly one in five of AT&T's broadband cable customers pays an average of $10 a film to see what the distributor calls "real, live all-American sex -- not simulated by actors."
For all the money being made on sex -- legally -- by mainstream corporations, the topic remains taboo outside the boardroom. The major satellite and cable companies do very little marketing of their X-rated products, and they are not mentioned in annual reports except in the vaguest of euphemisms.
None of the corporate leaders of AT&T, Time Warner, General Motors, EchoStar, Liberty Media, Marriott International, Hilton, On Command, LodgeNet Entertainment or the News Corporation -- all companies that have a big financial stake in adult films and that are held by millions of shareholders -- were willing to speak publicly about the sex side of their businesses.
"How can we?" said an official at AT&T. "It's the crazy aunt in the attic. Everyone knows she's there, but you can't say anything about it."
For hotels, the sex that can be piped through television generates far more money than the beer, wine and snacks sold from the rooms' mini-bars. Just under 1.5 million hotel rooms, or about 40 percent of all hotel rooms in the nation, are equipped with television boxes that sell the kind of films that used to be seen mostly in adults-only theaters, according to the two leading companies in the business. Based on estimates provided by the hotel industry, at least half of all guests buy these adult movies, which means that pay-per-view sex from television hotel rooms may generate about $190 million a year in sales.
At home, Americans buy or rent more than $4 billion a year worth of graphic sex videos from retail outlets and spend an additional $800 million on less explicit sexual films -- all told, about 32 percent of the business for general-interest video retailers that carry adult topics, according to compilations done by two trade organizations that track video rentals. Chains like Tower Records now stock nearly 500 titles in their so-called erotic category, far more than films about history or dinosaurs.
On the Internet, sex is one of the few things that prompts large numbers of people to disclose their credit card numbers. According to two Web ratings services, about one in four regular Internet users, or 21 million Americans, visits one of the more than 60,000 sex sites on the Web at least once a month -- more people than go to sports or government sites.
Though estimates have been greatly inflated by some e-commerce sex merchants, analysts from Forrester Research say that sex sites on the Web generate at least $1 billion a year in revenue, providing a windfall for credit card companies, Internet search engines and people who build Web sites, among others in the commercial food chain.
Some of the most popular Web properties -- which feature quick links to sites labeled "Virgin Sluts" and "See Teens Have Sex" -- are owned by a publicly held company in Boulder, Colo. That company, New Frontier Media, has stock traded like any other, and it expects its video network to be in 25 million homes within a few years. It does business with several major companies, including EchoStar and In Demand, the nation's leading pay-per-view distributor, which is owned in part by AT&T, Time Warner, Advance-Newhouse, Cox Communications and Comcast.
Another company, LodgeNet, whose chairman is Scott C. Petersen, does $180 million in annual business selling sex videos and other forms of room entertainment to hotels. LodgeNet is a major employer in Sioux Falls, S.D., its home base. It is a client of the accounting giant Arthur Andersen, and nearly a fifth of the company's public shares are held by a Park Avenue investment firm, Red Coat Capital Management of New York.
"We feel good about what we do," said Ann Parker, a spokeswoman for LodgeNet, which trades on the Nasdaq market. "We're good corporate citizens. We contribute to local charities."
The biggest provider of hard-core sex videos and adult Web content, Vivid Entertainment Group of Van Nuys, Calif., whose founders and principal owners are Steven Hirsch and David James, has been making the rounds of investment bankers of late, preparing for an initial public stock offering next year that could ultimately lead to the first porn billionaire.
"The adult entertainment business is just exploding," said Bill Asher, the president of Vivid, whose offices are in a new granite and glass building that houses investment and venture capital firms. "Right now there are a lot of people making a lot of money. Somebody's got to take control of it, and we figure it might as well be us. We see ourselves as the designated driver of this business."
To the astonishment of Mr. Flynt, who began in the pornography business by selling poor-quality pictures of naked girls as a way to build interest in his strip clubs, his competitors in the $10 billion annual adult market are mainstream corporations whose board members are among the American business elite.
"We're in the small leagues compared to some of those companies like General Motors or AT&T," Mr. Flynt said. "But it doesn't surprise me that they got into it. I've always said that other than the desire for survival, the strongest desire we have is sex."

The Technology Factor
Look, Ma, No Staples!
Thirty years ago, a federal study put the total retail value of hard-core pornography in the United States between $5 million and $10 million -- or about the same amount that a single successful sex-related Web site brings in today. It seemed likely that the industry would remain where it had always been -- largely out of sight, but profitable, and faced with consistent legal problems.
What kept the market relatively small, in the view of people in the industry, were the barriers between consumer and product. Typically, a person would have to go to a run-down part of town, among people considered less than savory, to find hard-core adult films or bookstores. These retail outlets frequently were raided by law enforcement authorities, further adding to the risk for a consumer -- a risk of shame, or arrest.
In 1975, the Sony Corporation released the videocassette recorder to the broad market, and within 10 years, about 75 percent of all American households owned a VCR. Once the venue had moved from theater to the privacy of the home, the adult entertainment industry was never the same. For example, a single film, "Deep Throat," generated more than $100 million in sales, thanks in large part to the popularity of VCR's, Frederick S. Lane III writes in his book "Obscene Profits: The Entrepreneurs of Pornography in the Cyber Age" (Routledge, 2000).
But even with most Americans owning VCR's, people still had to take a trip to the video store, risking some embarrassment. Pay-per-view television and the Internet removed the final barriers.
Cable and satellite programmers allow people to buy a variety of sex-based programming, from Playboy, on the lighter side, to the Hot Network, owned by Vivid, and the Erotic Television Network, distributed by New Frontier, on the more explicit end of the spectrum. Consumers could watch movies of people having sex without ever leaving home.
What investors and bigger corporations soon discovered was the vast audience for pornography -- once the privacy barrier was eliminated. Twenty percent of all American households with a VCR or cable access will pay to watch an explicit adult video -- and 10 percent will pay frequently, according to the distributors New Frontier and Vivid. That interest explains, in part, why the production of pornographic films has grown tenfold in the last decade. There are now nearly 10,000 adult movies made every year, according to an annual survey of the films produced in the Los Angeles area.
Last year, there were 711 million rentals of hard-core sex films, according to Adult Video News, an industry magazine that is to pornographic films what the trade publication Billboard is to records. It even has its own film awards -- modeled after the Oscars.
But video rentals have reached a plateau over the last two years. The future is pay-per-view at home -- driven by the easy access and good technical quality of digital television -- and pay-per-view from the Internet, driven by the technological innovations of new cable and phone lines that carry far more images, more quickly, to a computer screen.
"Videos changed the way people could view porn because they were able to watch in the privacy of their homes," said Barry Parr, an electronic commerce analyst with International Data Corporation. "Internet pornography takes that a step further -- they can do it with absolute privacy."
The number of people visiting sex sites on the Web doubled over the last year, outpacing the number of new Internet users. Some of the more popular sex Web sites attract in excess of 50 million hits, or visits, a month, according to the ratings services Nielsen/ Net and Media Metrix. About one in a thousand people who visit a site will subscribe, for fees averaging $20 a month, according to some of the leading Web pornography providers and Flying Crocodile Inc., a company based in Seattle that tracks and services the sexual-content market.
At the same time that technology was making it easier for people to view pornography, legal obstacles were falling. The 1973 Supreme Court case Miller v. California established a threshold for defining illegal pornography; a major test was that it had to be considered obscene to the "average person, applying contemporary community standards."
Initially, the case helped prosecutors clamp down on publications and movies. But that proved to be short-lived. If "Deep Throat" could sell $100 million worth of copies, then what was the community standard?
"The court may have handed off the determination of obscenity to the local community, but the standards of local communities had fundamentally changed," writes Mr. Lane in "Obscene Profits."
When Mr. Peterman was prosecuted for distributing obscene material in Utah last year, he became one of the few video retailers in the nation charged with such a crime in recent years. In a state long regarded as a bastion of family-values morality, more than 4,000 people signed petitions supporting his prosecution.
But Mr. Peterman showed that he had 4,000 regular customers for sex videos. His lawyer argued that Mr. Peterman was not violating community standards, because people in Utah County bought 20,000 adult sex videos from one satellite programmer alone in the period that Mr. Peterman was said to have broken the law; it was double the volume in most cities the size of Provo. And in the Provo Marriott, guests were paying for nearly 3,000 explicit adult videos every year, according to court testimony. After the Peterman trial, that hotel dropped its adult movies.
"My client was just a little guy," Mr. Spencer said, "a mom-and-pop dealer in a very big business."

The Corporate Factor
It's the Demand, Companies Say
At a time when political campaigns from the presidential level down to that of the local school board have made an issue of sexual excess in broadcasting, the corporate entanglements in the pornography business have blurred the lines of the debate.
In Missouri this year, Senator John Ashcroft, a Republican, ran ads denouncing "Hollywood's decaying influence" on society, singling out his Democratic opponent, Gov. Mel Carnahan, for accepting donations from Christie Hefner, the Playboy executive.
Mr. Carnahan, who died last week in a plane crash, had countered by pointing to donations to Mr. Ashcroft from Charles W. Ergen, chief executive of EchoStar, which sells adult pay-per-view through its fast-growing DishNetwork satellite division.
"If he's going to start that, he's in greater trouble than I am," Mr. Carnahan had said.
Mr. Ashcroft's supporters had replied that there was still a distinction between the two companies: EchoStar did not produce pornography -- it merely sold it, while Playboy created its own videos and pictures, they said.
"We added adult at the request of our customers," said Judiann Atencio, a spokeswoman for EchoStar. "We have something for everybody, from Irish hurling to cricket. Adult is there if you want it."
When AT&T announced that it would start offering the hard-core Hot Network to its 2.2 million digital cable subscribers beginning in August, they were castigated by critics and pressured by religious and civic groups that hold stock in the company.
A group of mutual-fund investors, which included the Sisters of Charity of New York, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America and the Mennonite Church, told AT&T its members did not want their three million shares invested in a company that sold pornography.
"At the heart of our concern is the concept of mainstream companies getting into hard-core pornography," said Mark Regier, who manages a mutual fund for 800,000 members of the Mennonite faith. "For a company with AT&T's tradition and its charitable work to be involved with pornography at this level is unbelievable. And I don't think many people understand what it means to take away the barriers to this kind of material, such as AT&T is doing."
For AT&T, there are sound business reasons to start carrying the highly profitable Hot Network. Unlike distributors of mainstream Hollywood pictures, sex-film distributors typically offer the programmers a split of 80 percent of the revenue, compared with 50 percent or less for routine features.
Impulse buys, in which customers tap a code into a remote and a movie follows, have also spurred in-home sales of pornographic films.
"Impulse technology -- that's been just incredible," said Mr. Asher of Vivid Entertainment, which makes hundreds of adult films and claims that it sells a million copies a month to cable, satellite, home video and hotel retailers. "You have about 35 million homes with this kind of technology now," Mr. Asher said, "and it's growing enormously. It's easy and it's private -- that's the key."
Although the companies that program explicit sex films will not give out their revenue figures for this category, a report by the Showtime Event Television company found that adult pay-per-view took in $367 million last year -- a more than sixfold increase from the $54 million of 1993, easily outpacing the growth of pay-per-view "events" like boxing and wrestling.
Time Warner, EchoStar, General Motors and AT&T all say they are simply responding to a growing American market that wants pornography in the home. At the same time, the companies say new technology makes it possible for parents to keep such programming away from children.
"We call it choice and control," said Tracy Hollingsworth, a spokeswoman for AT&T Broadband, the company's cable division. "Basically, you use your remote to block out any programming you don't want. But if you want it, we offer a wide range of programming that is available in the market we're in."
Hotel chains have made similar decisions when, this year, several groups urged them to get rid of the adult pay-per-view programs that are in nearly 60 percent of all middle- to high-end hotels. Only one chain, the relatively small Omni Hotels, chose to remove the sex films.
"What we noticed was that early on, the content was R-rated, but then it migrated rather quickly to really raunchy stuff -- just hard-core porn," said Jim Caldwell, the president of Omni. "I thought: What are we doing? We don't have topless waitresses in the restaurant."
Mr. Caldwell said more than 50 percent of all guests were buying the sex films. "The anonymity is the big thing," he said.
Omni's decision to remove pay-per-view sex videos from the company's 15,000 rooms will cost the company more than $1.8 million a year, Mr. Caldwell said. But he said he had received phone calls and letters of thanks from 50,000 people -- more than for any other corporate decision.
Much larger hotel chains, like Marriott, which calls itself the world's largest hotel management firm, with nearly 300,000 rooms in the United States, and Hilton, with 290,000 rooms under its control, have not made changes.
Some critics said Marriott, run by several prominent members of the Mormon Church, though not affiliated in any way with the church itself, should drop its adult movies, given the stand against explicit sexual materials that Mormons have long taken. But company officials said they were mostly franchisers, and could not make unilateral decisions for the hotel owners who paid to be a part of the Marriott chain.
The two companies that provide hotels with pornographic films are both traded on Wall Street and have enjoyed big run-ups in their stock prices over the last few years. The leader, On Command, based in Denver, is worth more than $400 million, and its principal owner is Liberty Media, controlled by John C. Malone, the cable and telecommunications magnate who sits on the board of AT&T and recently agreed to buy up to 15 percent of the shares of Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation.
The chairman and chief executive of On Command is Jerome H. Kern, a former New York corporate lawyer active in civic and volunteer causes, serving on the board of New York University and as a director of Volunteers of America in Colorado.
On Command would not discuss how much money it is making on adult films. But in its annual report, the company said it was generating $23 a room each month for the 835,000 hotel rooms it reaches. The company goal is to get into an additional one million hotel rooms. Analysts say at least half the revenue comes from adult films. The company recently began offering all-day erotic television to hotel customers, for a single price of $15.99.
"Talk about your captive audience," said Mr. Asher of Vivid. "I've heard that in some hotels, 85 to 90 percent of all profits from in-room spending comes from adult channels."

The Money Factor
Big Profits Now, Bigger Ones on Way
While the big companies that deliver sex films to homes and hotels will not talk about how popular explicit sexual materials are, the makers and distributors say the volume is enormous. And court testimony and documents that were made public in the Peterman case also offered some insight into the profit potential.
"Despite the fact that this material isn't marketed, revenue-wise, it's one of our biggest moneymakers," said Peggy Simons of TCI Cable, in court testimony in Mr. Peterman's case. TCI, controlled by Mr. Malone, has since been bought by AT&T.
"When we talk to the companies one-on-one, they tell us we're great, that we're a huge moneymaker for them," said Mr. Asher, whose company owns the Hot Network, which is available in 16 million homes. "And by the way, I tell my biggest customers -- don't say you ever met me."
In trying to take public his company, which now does about $80 million a year in sales, Mr. Asher said, "The biggest problem I have is the image of the adult business. People think it's run by the mob, or a bunch of guys with gold chains. I grew up in Paris, Illinois. I have a master's of business administration degree."
The Hot Network portrays people having sex in a variety of methods -- what the company calls "widely accepted sexual activity" -- and prohibits scenes of violence, nonconsensual sex, drug use, forced bondage and sex with minors.
Analysts of electronic commerce and telecommunications say the mainstream sex market might be leveling off, but new technology is likely to bring in even more consumers.
"The novelty of it has not worn off yet, and I don't believe it will wear off," said Sean Calder, a vice president for e-commerce at Nielsen/Net Ratings, which gauges the popularity of Web sites. "The numbers point to a huge personal need. We see lots of people logging on at 3 in the morning."
The $30 billion project to rewire the cable industry with lines capable of bringing more material, and allowing people to buy on impulse, will play a big part in the emerging home pornography market.
"These companies like AT&T, they're thinking ahead to a time, perhaps in 10 years, when 50 million Americans will have broadband capability and all their television and Internet will be interactive through one big box," said Bryn Pryor, technology editor for Adult Video News, the trade magazine.
"But it's not just technology that made the big boys get into it," Mr. Pryor said. "This just happens to be a business where you can't lose money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVO, UT, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (90%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); PAY PER VIEW (77%); OBSCENITY (77%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (74%); COUNTIES (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (68%); 

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



613 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: With Economy Booming, Canadian Leader Calls for Elections

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: WINNIPEG, Manitoba, Oct. 22

 BODY:
Prime Minister Jean Chretien called today for new elections, apparently counting on a booming economy and a popular new tax-cutting package to make him the first Canadian leader since World War II to win a third consecutive mandate.
Compared with the United States, Canada has quick election campaigns -- 36 days -- and cheap ones. Mr. Chretien's Liberals and their main rival, the Canadian Alliance, are expected to spend about $7 million each before the national vote on Nov. 27. 
 The Alliance, a new conservative party, raised about 20 percent of the money for the campaign on Wednesday with a dinner in Toronto for 1,700 business leaders.
"The election campaign begins officially at this moment, but we all know it began unofficially some time ago," said Mr. Chretien, making his announcement on the lawn of the Rideau Hall government building in Ottawa.
He continued: "Canadians do not want an expensive American-style election campaign that drags on for months and months, and there is nothing more democratic than calling an election. It is an opportunity for Canadians to choose between different visions and different values. This election offers two very different visions of Canada, two crystal clear alternatives."
Mr. Chretien, 66, is calling the election when he is only three and a half years into his second five-year mandate. But he is believed to be worried about the rising popularity of Stockwell Day, a 50-year-old westerner who won the Alliance leadership race last June. In 1997, Mr. Chretien similarly called an election at the three-and-a-half-year marker, hoping to increase his parliamentary majority, but voters, angry about austere fiscal policies that weakened the social safety net, slashed his majority by 22 seats, and he won a popular vote of only 38 percent.
But this time, Mr. Chretien, who has been prime minister since 1993, believes he is on more solid ground. The death on Sept. 28 of Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the former prime minister, created a national wave of nostalgia for his Liberal social democratic values. The memories of the Trudeau era seem to have prompted a reassessment of the conservatism offered by the Alliance, braking Mr. Day's rise in the polls.
In polls this fall, Mr. Chretien generally beats Mr. Day, leader of the largest opposition party, by about two to one, the mid-40's to the low 20's.
On the economic front, Canada is reaping some of the benefits of the fiscal austerity imposed in the early Chretien years. With the economy expanding by almost 5 percent this year, unemployment is low, and a chronic budget deficit has been replaced with large surpluses.
In September, the government restored billions of dollars in funding to the national health system, a leading concern of Canadians. Then, last Wednesday, Finance Minister Paul Martin unveiled tax cuts that have been described by the Canada's financial press as the largest in Canadian history.
Designed to save taxpayers $65 billion over the next five years, the cuts draw Canadian income and capital gains tax rates closer to American levels. The lowest level is to be 16 percent, just below the level proposed by the Alliance. The new government policy will cut the federal debt by $7 billion in the first year, more than is proposed by the Alliance.
With these tax cuts, Canada, long known for its Scandinavian-style tax rates, may be making a historic shift, conservative commentators say.
"There's no doubt the ground rules of Canadian politics have shifted dramatically over the last few years, even the last few months," Terence Corcoran, a conservative columnist for The National Post, wrote on Thursday. "Tax cuts on a large scale are now respectable policy on a national basis, and there will be no turning back."
Mr. Day, who made his national mark by cutting taxes in Alberta, is now expected to shift his strategy to call for stricter sentencing for criminals, a more aggressive repayment schedule of the national debt, better health care for an aging population -- and for a generational leadership change from Mr. Chretien, who was first elected to Parliament in 1963.
In a Compass poll conducted nationwide last week of 1,155 Canadians, 41 percent said they "definitely" wanted a change of prime minister. With the Liberals having a hard time attracting star names to run on their tickets this fall, Jeffrey Simpson, The Globe and Mail's lead political columnist, last week captured much of Canada's indifference about Mr. Chretien, calling him "an anti-visionary man," and "the status quo man of all status quo men."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a call by Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada for new elections referred incorrectly to the most recent precedent for a candidate's winning three consecutive terms as prime minister. Mr. Chretien would not be the first since World War II; Pierre Elliott Trudeau was.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN ALLIANCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN ALLIANCE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; ; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); TRENDS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); 

PERSON: CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN); BROOKE, JAMES JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); PAUL MARTIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000



614 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Unlocking Secrets of Magnetic Fields' Power

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
On Earth, magnetic fields generally make for a dull show. Yes, compass needles point along the magnetic field lines sprouting from Earth's poles, and iron filings on a piece of paper trace the same kind of field lines when they are produced by a bar magnet. Those magnetic fields, however, just exist without doing much, and they have little influence on the surrounding atmosphere.
But in the high chaparral of space, magnetic fields become squirming, snapping, dynamic entities that drive huge storms, heat the atmosphere of the Sun to millions of degrees, shelter the Earth from showers of energetic particles and help sculpt the observable landscape of the cosmos. The turbulent, electrically charged gases of space, called plasmas, stick to magnetic fields and ride them like cowboys on a bronco. 
 When the fields use their energy to raise the temperature of the plasmas or fling them at nearly the speed of light, "it's like having plastic explosive in space," said Dr. James Drake, a physicist at the University of Maryland. "You're releasing that energy in an explosive manner."
The question that scientists have been trying to answer for decades is exactly how the magnetic field of the Sun releases its energy so suddenly to create a solar flare or an eruption of gases into space. The favorite contender has been a poorly understood process called reconnection, in which taut field lines brush together and, in effect, cut each other and then whip around, like snapped rubber bands, in a new configuration.
Unfortunately, reconnection research has been stymied for decades over the physics of the process and how fast it can occur. But this week, at a meeting of the American Physical Society's division of plasma physics in Quebec City, Quebec, Dr. Drake is describing research that he and his collaborators say shows not only that reconnection can take place quickly, but also that it is a simpler and more universal phenomenon than suspected.
"This really is a tremendous step," said Dr. Spiro Antiochos, an astrophysicist at the Naval Research Laboratory, "and the real breakthrough there is that he's done it without any a priori assumptions."
While earlier theorists simplified some complex realities of space, Dr. Antiochos said, the new work starts from first principles.
The push to understand reconnection is not limited to the theorists. Recent satellite measurements have probed magnetic reconnection in space, and a few Earth-bound experiments have made progress as well, with an eye toward applications like a reactor that harnesses thermonuclear energy the way the Sun does.
At the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, the Magnetic Reconnection Experiment is an effort to shed light on the basic physics of reconnection, while the National Spherical Torus Experiment in the same laboratory is exploring the possibility that the phenomenon could be used to help confine hot plasmas that might someday produce large amounts of energy from thermonuclear fusion.
Scientists working on both Princeton experiments will also give talks in Quebec City. Magnetic reconnection "happens all over the universe," said Dr. Rob Goldston, director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. "We're interested in these plasmas because they're scientifically interesting. But at the same time, they have some potential to make fusion more practical."
Magnetic fields are produced by electrical currents, either at the atomic level (as in bar magnets) or by the motion of charged particles like electrons and ions in wires or Earth's core. Once a magnetic field has been created, electrically charged particles tend to spiral around its field lines and slide along them. So charged particles from space get funneled toward Earth's poles, where field lines sprout like cowlicks. The particles crash into the atmosphere there, creating the northern and southern lights.
Near Earth's surface, the atoms of oxygen and nitrogen contain an equal number of electrons and protons and have no net charge. So they flow through Earth's magnetic field without hindrance. In the tenuous gases of space, however, the atoms (mostly hydrogen, with traces of other elements) the electrons and proton-heavy nuclei generally become separated, creating a plasma that cannot ignore a magnetic field.
Plasmas tend to stick to magnetic field lines, causing an eternal tug of war: relatively strong magnetic fields can hold plasmas in place, while dense plasmas can shove magnetic fields around. Far above the atmosphere in Earth's "magnetosphere," in deep space and in the magnetized plasmas of the Sun, the two entities are tightly joined.
"What happens on the Sun and in interplanetary space and the Earth's magnetosphere is that the magnetic field has a physical identity," Dr. Antiochos said. "You could actually think of field lines like real, physical wires. They move with the gas."
Those jumping field lines thread galaxies, rise in vast arches above the Sun and drift through space on the solar wind. When they near Earth, they meet the outer reaches of its magnetic field in the magnetosphere, which forms a sort of protective cocoon that is swept into a long teardrop shape by the wind.
As malleable as the fields are, they face one great barrier to changing their configurations in response to plasma flows: magnetic field lines have no ends. They exist only as loops, so physicists have long suspected that major changes involve reconnection, or a kind of cutting and pasting that allows one set of field lines to splice into adjacent ones.
Because field lines, like rubber bands, have tension, the reconnection should in some cases cause them to snap back, flinging plasma around like slingshots and perhaps explaining impulsive phenomena like solar flares. Two sets of field lines would always snap in opposite directions, producing two counter plasma jets.
"The plasma releases its energy very much like a traditional explosion, except that it's not isotropic," or the same in all directions, Dr. Drake said.
The problem that physicists have had since they began studying reconnection in the 1950's comes in understanding how it happens so fast. Theoretical calculations have generally predicted that flares should take days or even years to go off, rather than minutes, as observed.
Just as there is a limit to the speed of sound waves in Earth's atmosphere, called "mach 1," there seemed to be a limit on the speed of field lines during the snapback, limiting the speed of reconnection.
But Dr. Drake, using computer computations and working with Dr. Amitava Bhattacharjee of the University of Iowa, Dr. Michael Hesse of the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., and others, found that the rebound's speed may actually depend on the size of the reconnecting region. The smaller the region, the faster it snaps back.
Theorists think that the splicing takes place on very tiny scales. Therefore, the high speeds would allow the field lines to get out of the way quickly. "There has been about 20 to 30 years of controversy," Dr. Bhattacharjee said, referring to calculations that predicted the slow pace. Now, he said, the theoretical predictions are beginning to match what is seen in nature.
The group "has really got a breakthrough there," said Dr. Eric Priest, an applied mathematician and solar physicist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
The work, which will also be presented in The Journal of Geophysical Research, comes as other researchers are making strides in understanding reconnection in complicated field geometries in three-dimensional space, Dr. Priest said.
The observers have been doing their part, too. Dr. Marit Oieroset and Dr. Tai Phan of the University of California, Berkeley, and their co-workers have collected evidence that spacecraft have drifted through reconnection regions where Earth's magnetosphere meets the solar wind -- observing the counterstreaming plasma jets set loose by the violent reconnection process, for example.
On the ground, the doughnut-shaped National Spherical Torus Experiment, also at Princeton, is an effort to put reconnection to work to confine a hot plasma. The device, which builds on related experiments at the University of Washington in Seattle, generates strong magnetic fields and then gets them to reconnect in such a way that they wrap around the plasma without touching the cold walls of the vessel.
In a plasma composed of fuel capable of undergoing thermonuclear fusion, that research could lead to more economical reactor designs. Dr. Masayuki Ono, the project director, compared generating reconnection in the device to "a giant spark plug" to start a hot plasma.
Dr. Ono said that as much as scientists would like to understand reconnection fully, the process could become useful even before they learn all there is to know. "People learned how to use spark plugs in the internal combustion engine before they understood it," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Masayuki Ono, left, and Dr. Rob Goldston of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory inspect the National Spherical Torus Experiment device. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Dynamic Magnetism"
Jets of ionized gas, or plasma, can shoot out into space when magnetic field lines from the Sun, carrying along electrically charged particles, encounter Earth's own magnetic field, touching off a process called reconnection.
 
THE RECONNECTION PROCESS
 
1. Oppositely directed magnetic field lines from the Sun and Earth approach each other.
 
2. Reconnection occurs when the two lines meet, in an area called the diffusion region.
 
3. Jets of plasma are slung out as field lines snap into a new configuration.
 
(Source: Dr. Tai Phan, Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California at Berkeley.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (75%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (75%); EARTH (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MAGNETISM AND MAGNETS; SUN; SOLAR FLARES; FUSION (NUCLEAR REACTION) SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); PLASMA PHYSICS (88%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); TEST LABORATORIES (69%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (66%); 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



615 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Malaysia Says U.S. Failed To Obey Ruling on Shrimp

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 23

 BODY:
A dispute that has brought environmentalists into conflict with the World Trade Organization was revived today when Malaysia accused the United States of failing to revamp its laws to allow unrestricted shrimp imports.
 In a 1998 ruling, a W.T.O. panel struck down the United States ban on shrimp imports from countries that could not prove that their fishing fleets were taking measures to protect endangered sea turtles. Agreeing to a request by Malaysia, one of several countries that brought the original complaint, the W.T.O. agreed to investigate whether the United States had complied with the decision. 
 Malaysia said that the United States "has failed to take the necessary measures to allow the importation of certain shrimp and shrimp products in an unrestrictive manner." Malaysia could impose retaliatory trade sanctions if the panel finds that the United States has not complied with the W.T.O. decision.
The United States trade delegate, Rita Hayes, said the government was not required to overhaul its laws, but only to bring their administration in line with trade arbiter's recommendations.
 The W.T.O. dispute settlement body's deliberations are behind closed doors, but Ms. Hayes's office released a statement noting that the administration was "puzzled" by Malaysia's contention. "We offered to send a high-level delegation to Kuala Lumpur to discuss Malaysia's concerns," she said. "Malaysia, however, declined our offer."
 Pakistan, another country that brought the initial challenge, has agreed to adopt methods to protect turtles, a change that has resulted in the restrictions on its shrimp catch being lifted, she noted. Revised United States regulations allow shrimp imports from fleets using a "turtle excluder" device, which provides a channel of escape for them.
 Reopening the shrimp-turtle case is uncomfortable for administration trade officials, who insist that the United States government has complied with all unfavorable rulings. It also comes at a time when some of the W.T.O.'s 138 members are increasingly restive over uneven results from the body's dispute settlement system, which was designed to assure countries could not dodge their free trade obligations.
 High-profile disputes between the United States and the European Union have dogged the smooth working of the system. Administration trade officials say the European Union has not renovated its bananas importation program or dropped its ban on hormone-treated American beef even though the W.T.O. has found them in violation of free trade rules. In turn, the Europeans say the United States has not brought its system of multibillion-dollar tax breaks for exporting companies in line with a W.T.O. ruling against it.
 A group of countries led by Japan, proposed altering the dispute settlement process last week, reflecting worries that the rules' vague language is allowing countries to skirt their obligations.
 Under the revision, countries would not be authorized to use retaliatory trade sanctions until the W.T.O. process had run its course, and the trade arbiter decided that the losing party had failed to comply.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (58%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHRIMP; TURTLES AND TORTOISES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; FISHING, COMMERCIAL REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); SHELLFISH FISHING (77%); SEAFOOD (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BEEF (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; HAYES, RITA

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



616 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: Watching Volunteers, Experts Seek Clues to Eating Disorders

SERIES: THE FAT EPIDEMIC/When Eating Is Disordered

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
In a small room on the ninth floor of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan, volunteers come to eat in the name of science.
They sip milkshakes through polyethylene straws. They munch on baked chicken, sliced apples, potato chips and chocolate cake. They finish off meals composed entirely of Breyer's ice cream. 
 Sometimes, following instructions, they eat as much as they would in a normal meal. Other times they "binge," consuming as much as they can, or they eat continuously until an experimenter tells them to stop.
All the while, machines measure their food intake. Questionnaires, filled out at regular intervals, gather information on how hungry or full they feel, how much they feel in control of their eating, how much they like or dislike what they eat.
This orchestrated frenzy of deglutition has a purpose: through such studies, researchers at centers like the hospital's Human Ingestive Laboratory, which is affiliated with Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, hope to answer critical questions about one of life's most basic activities.
Why are some people able to control how much they eat while others seem helpless to stop? How do the eating patterns of people with anorexia or bulimia differ from those of other people? How does dieting to lose or maintain weight, an activity that more than two-thirds of Americans report engaging in, relate to more extreme eating behavior? And in a culture where fattening food is everywhere, thinness is a national ideal and 55 percent of the population is officially overweight, what is normal and what is abnormal?
Over the last two decades, scientists have progressed both in their understanding of eating disorders and their ability to treat them.
Researchers have found, for example, that cognitive therapy and antidepressants are effective therapies for bulimia nervosa.
They have uncovered abnormalities in the biological systems controlling hunger and satiety that may play a role in many eating disturbances.
And they have learned that eating disorders tend to run in families, suggesting that the vulnerability to such problems may be at least in part genetic.
Yet despite these advances, researchers still know surprisingly little about how normal eating should be defined, or where its exact boundaries lie. And in many areas, debates continue over how severe symptoms must be to be called "disordered," how eating disorders intersect with other psychiatric diagnoses like anxiety, depression or obsessive compulsive disorder, and how different types of eating problems relate to one another.
"There's no question that there's an arbitrariness in the way the lines are drawn in these disorders," said Dr. B. Timothy Walsh, director of the eating disorders research program at New York State Psychiatric Institute in Manhattan.
"And while we have made progress, we have also recognized how much we don't know, even about who should be considered as having an eating disorder."
Part of the difficulty is that for most people, eating is not just a matter of stoking up on fuel.
Instead, from early childhood food becomes tied up with other things, with love and hate, power and control, with culture, religion, social circumstance and personal belief. A piece of chocolate cake can be an oasis of comfort, a reliever of stress, a cure for boredom, a balm to loneliness. French fries can be Prozac on a plate.
"Food is obviously the staple of our lives and we need it in order to keep our glucose levels up," said Dr. C. Peter Herman, a professor of psychology at the University of Toronto, who studies dieting and eating disorders. "But it quickly goes beyond its biological aspect and basically runs riot through our lives."
Adult humans display an impressive array of eating styles and preferences. In any random sample of people, some will eat fast, some slowly. Some will pick at their food, others will behave more like human vacuum cleaners. In stressful situations, some people will stop eating, others break out the banana cream pie.
Moreover, in the panoply of human diners there are broccoli haters and meat avoiders, health food addicts and carbohydrate phobics. There are those who will eat only foods that have not touched on the plate, who eat the same thing for lunch every day of the year, who always eat their carrots first and their meatloaf second.
One Philadelphia woman, interviewed as part of a study of picky eaters by Dr. Paul Rozin and Dr. Marcia Pelchat at the University of Pennsylvania, refused to eat anything with lumps, effectively ruling out beef stew, most forms of spaghetti sauce and chocolate chip cookies.
Such gastronomic eccentricities are widespread, Dr. Rozin and Dr. Pelchat have found, and largely benign. But for other people, food becomes a torment.
Anorexics starve themselves to emaciation. Bulimics binge eat uncontrollably, then induce vomiting, abuse laxatives or exercise frantically to compensate for their overindulgence.
Others who seek help at eating disorder clinics chew their food and then spit it out, or count calories compulsively, or are unable to eat in public. Or perhaps they suffer from "night eating syndrome," a disorder described by Dr. Albert Stunkard, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, and other researchers, which involves nearly constant nibbling, beginning in the late afternoon, coupled with depression and insomnia.
Mark Roth, a 50-year old pharmacist in Philadelphia, is one of those who sought treatment for the condition at the university. His eating problem, he said, "felt like a compulsion." He would skip breakfast, eat a "haphazard" lunch at work, then go home and begin munching, extending his repeated trips to the refrigerator into the wee morning hours. He edged up from 180 pounds to a chunky 230.
Sometimes he would fantasize about the pork chop left over from dinner, eventually retrieving it and devouring it hungrily. Other times he would make do with nuts, potato chips, popcorn or other tempting snacks. "Basically, I'd eat just about anything," Mr. Roth said.
 
What Is Normal?
For mental health professionals, parsing a landscape of such vastness and diversity is not always an easy task.
Traditionally, psychiatrists have limited the definition of "disordered" eating to behaviors that threaten health or are distressing enough to drive people into treatment.
Anorexia and bulimia, the two eating disorders included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the American Psychiatric Association's official roster of psychiatric illness, clearly fit these criteria. The two involve extreme behaviors -- self-starvation in the case of anorexia, frequent bingeing and purging in bulimia -- that most people would agree are aberrant. And each has a significant effect on health.
Anorexia, which surveys find affects half of 1 percent to 1 percent of adolescent and young adult females, is perhaps the deadliest of mental disorders: in one long-term study, 7 percent of the anorexic subjects who participated had died within 10 years. Bulimia, two to six times as common as anorexia, has less severe health consequences, but takes over patients' lives and destroys their psychological well-being.
Obesity, on the other hand, also impairs health, but it is not considered an eating disorder.
To be sure, psychoanalysts once treated obesity as a symptom of neurosis, the legacy of unresolved childhood conflict. But in the last two decades, the consensus of medical experts has been that the obese are as normal as anyone else -- they just weigh more.
Obese people, experts agree, are no more likely to binge eat than their less adipose counterparts, though, in proportion to their size and energy demands, they eat more. And though studies have found that the incidence of anxiety and depression is slightly higher among the obese, they are, as a group, no more prone to psychiatric illness than other people.
Perhaps reflecting this, obesity has never been included in the psychiatric association's diagnostic manual, which insurance companies use to guide their coverage.
"It was always understood that there were many reasons that people were obese," said Dr. Michael First, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia and one of two editors of the association's manual, known as D.S.M.IV.
Still, some obese people seek help from mental health professionals because they feel that their overeating is out of control. Others come for treatment because the stigma associated with their heft has itself caused psychological distress. And while research increasingly suggests that obesity has genetic roots, like anorexia and bulimia it is also influenced by environmental factors.
As a result, at least a few experts argue that it makes no sense to omit obesity in discussions of eating disorders.
In a recent editorial in the journal TEN: The Economics of Neuroscience, for example, Dr. Myrna M. Weissman, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia, suggested that obesity be added to the psychiatric diagnostic manual.
"Obesity," Dr. Weissman argued, while not a psychiatric disorder in itself, "is associated with psychopathology, social morbidity and stigmatization."
Treatment for obesity, she pointed out, often involves behavioral therapies, antidepressant drugs and other tools of the psychiatric profession. And basic research on why people become obese is intertwined with the investigation of the biological underpinnings of other eating disorders.
 
The Binge Eater
Dr. Weissman's proposal is bound to be controversial. But so is "binge eating disorder," a diagnosis increasingly given to obese people who identify their eating patterns as a problem.
The disorder, now listed in the appendix of D.S.M.IV as a provisional diagnosis in need of further study, is defined by recurrent episodes of binge eating that occur at least two days a week for at least six months.
In addition, to qualify for a label of binge eating disorder, patients must feel distressed about their overeating, and meet three of six other criteria, including experiencing guilt or depression over eating too much, eating more rapidly than usual, eating until uncomfortably full, eating when not feeling physically hungry or eating alone because of embarrassment over the quantity being consumed.
Surveys indicate that about 2 percent of the population qualify for a diagnosis of binge eating disorder using these criteria. More than half of those are obese. And about 30 percent of obese people unhappy enough to seek treatment for their obesity engage in binge eating, according to studies. In patients who undergo a drastic weight reduction procedure called gastric bypass surgery, that figure rises to more than 50 percent.
Binge eating disorder appears to be distinct from bulimia: binge eaters do not engage in extreme measures like vomiting or abusing laxatives to compensate for their overeating, nor do they restrict their food intake when not bingeing, as many bulimics do.
Yet labeling binge eating as pathological is problematic in a culture of Big Macs, super sundaes and all-you-can-eat buffets, where overeating is a staple of every college dorm, and a routine way for adults to celebrate, recreate and respond to stresses of all kinds.
Supporters of the binge eating disorder diagnosis contend that it describes an identifiable group of people, who are troubled and in need of treatment.
"If you actually talk with people who have binge eating disorder, it takes over a large part of their lives," said Dr. Susan Yanovsky, director of the obesity and eating disorders program at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. "They don't want to go out because of it. They feel distressed about it. I think this is distinguishable from the normal, everyday binge eating that so many women go through."
But the diagnosis also has more than a few critics.
"Outside North America, it's basically a laugh," said Dr. Christopher Fairburn, a professor of psychiatry at Oxford University in England, who has studied binge eating disorder in the general population. "No one thinks it's a serious condition. There is no literature on it. There are no meetings."
Arguing against the usefulness of binge eating disorder as a diagnostic category are some studies that suggest that the condition, as defined in the diagnostic manual, responds to virtually any type of treatment, including no treatment or treatment with sugar pills.
"These are overeaters," Dr. Fairburn said, "and the times when their life gets difficult, they overeat more, and they get very low about it. Then things improve and they stop. And whatever you do, including nothing, the bingeing goes away."
Still, many scientists believe more research will clarify how binge eating disorder fits into the eating disorder spectrum, and whether it should be included as a formal diagnosis in future editions of the manual.
"I think everybody is agreed that there is something out there," said Michael Devlin, a Columbia University psychiatrist who studies the disorder.
 
Mapping the Unknown
The difficulties associated with drawing a clean line between normal and abnormal are not limited to overeating.
A parade of help seekers arrive at eating disorder clinics distressed by symptoms not quite severe enough to meet the diagnostic criteria for anorexia or bulimia.
Some come because they are endangering their health through dieting, for example, but do not stop menstruating or drop enough weight to qualify for an official diagnosis. Others eat large amounts of food and then try to get rid of it by vomiting, extreme exercise or abusing laxatives, but do not do so twice a week for three months -- the frequency required in the manual's diagnosis of bulimia.
Countless more never seek treatment at all, but, buffeted by the cultural pressures to eat too much on the one hand and to be unrealistically slim on the other, play out in their daily lives some variation of an anorexic or bulimic theme.
"Picture a tug of war with a massive, muscular giant at each end of the rope," said Dr. Kelly Brownell, director of the Yale University Center for Eating and Weight Disorders. "People are caught in the intersection of these forces. There are the healthy few who manage not to yield, but nearly everybody has at least a little of one problem or another."
At present, symptoms that do not fit neatly into the currently available diagnostic pigeonholes are lumped under a catch-all diagnosis, "Eating Disorder Not Otherwise Specified," a category regarded by many health insurance companies as not severe enough to warrant reimbursement.
Yet eventually, scientists may know enough to map with some certainty those behaviors that are simply the far end of normal eating and those that represent a step into illness. One way they hope to gain such knowledge is to bring patients with different diagnoses into the laboratory and study their eating patterns.
And scientists at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, which recruits volunteers to eat under scientific scrutiny, are trying to do just that.
Dr. Harry Kissileff, an associate professor of clinical psychology in psychiatry and medicine at Columbia, who is director of the lab, said his research team was one of the first to ask subjects to binge eat in a laboratory setting.
"People didn't think it could be done because it was such a private behavior," he said. "But we just brought people in and asked them to do it."
With Dr. Walsh and other collaborators, Dr. Kissileff has studied bingeing in patients with diagnoses of bulimia and binge eating disorder, in the obese and in control subjects, whose eating patterns are supposedly "normal."
Through such studies, they have been able to tease out some differences between diagnostic groups, discovering variation in how much food they consume, what foods they select and how quickly they eat.
In studies where subjects were asked to binge, eating as much as they possibly could, subjects with binge eating disorder ate slightly less than bulimic subjects, and were more fussy about the foods they chose to binge on, Dr. Kissileff said.
Bulimic subjects, though they ate substantially more when told to binge than both control subjects and those with binge eating disorder, actually ate less than the other groups when asked to eat normally.
And, presented with a smorgasbord of foods to choose from, bulimic subjects structured their meals differently from normal subjects and those with binge eating disorder.
"Normal folk tend to eat meat early in the meal and toward the end of the meal eat dessert foods," said Dr. Walsh. "In contrast, people with bulimia got to dessert much earlier."
The results of such studies have led researchers at Columbia and elsewhere to form a number of hypotheses about the mechanisms that underlie bulimia. Studies have found, for example, that bulimic subjects produce abnormally low amounts a hormone called cholecystokinine, or CCK, released by cells in the wall of the small intestine when food is present, indicating that the disorder may involve a disruption in the physiological signals that normally tell people when they have eaten enough.
But scientists still have a long way to go in understanding the ways that one of life's most pleasurable activities can derail. In the meantime, Dr. Yanovsky said, what is an eating disorder can be defined very simply:
"If it's something that's having an impact on your life or your health or your ability to function," she said, "you ought to go out and get help."
 
The Fat Epidemic
 
Previous articles in this series examined an extreme surgical treatment for weight loss, new obesity research, exercise and weight, chronic dieters and overweight children. Later articles will investigate the diet business, the culture and history of fat, and discrimination. The series is available online: www.nytimes.com/obesity
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An intern working on an eating disorders project demonstrates a feeding apparatus. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. F1); Top, Dr. Pamela Raizman, back left, and Dr. Juli Goldfein, back right, lead an eating disorders group session at the New York State Psychiatric Institute. Dr. B. Timothy Walsh, left. Dr. Harry Kissileff, right. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 
Chart lists and describes the various types and symptoms of eating disorders. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ST LUKE'S-ROOSEVELT HOSPITAL CENTER (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LUKE'S-ROOSEVELT HOSPITAL CENTER (NYC) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WEIGHT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ANOREXIA NERVOSA; BULIMIA; RESEARCH EATING DISORDERS (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ICE CREAM (77%); DIETING (75%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (68%); DEPRESSION (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (65%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (62%); 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA MARCIA PELCHAT (57%); PAUL ROZIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



617 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Russia Shifts Its Focus Away From Mir

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23

 BODY:
The once-mighty Russian space program, out of money and buried in debt, is fighting to survive through imagination, guile and the forging of worldwide partnerships.
Time appears to be running out for Mir, Russia's pioneering space station. Russian space agency officials met last week to discuss Mir's fate, but did not issue public recommendations to the government on when to bring the station down. 
 However, the Itar-Tass news agency quoted Victor Blagov, a senior Russian space official, saying on Sunday that a plan to destroy Mir in February has been drafted and is awaiting government approval. And the Interfax news agency reported that Deputy Prime Minister Ilya Klebanov said on Monday that a formal decision on Mir was expected soon. "We are planning to bring Mir down and sink it in the ocean in late February," Mr. Klebanov was quoted as saying.
Meanwhile, the Russian Aviation and Space Agency and the country's aerospace industry are shifting their focus to the International Space Station and other multinational projects as a survival strategy.
Even as the Russian government struggles to find money for its promised contributions to the $60 billion International Space Station, Russian companies are aggressively seeking partners in the West to finance commercial modules that they can supply to the growing orbital outpost. Some of Mir's projects might move to the new venue, experts say.
For instance, RSC Energia, the company that built and operates Mir, has signed an agreement with an American company, Spacehab Inc., to build a $100 million attachment to the station that would provide broadcasting and Internet services from space. And M. V. Khrunichev, a rival industrial center that produced the first segment of the new space station for the Russian government, is working with Boeing on a competing commercial module.
Russia considers its space industry a crown jewel of its past and future economy, experts say. Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, has called the aerospace business an important part of future economic development, as well as a source of national prestige.
But with little hope for infusions of government money in the near future, that industry is increasingly trying to pull in international business to keep its factories open and its workers paid. Russian companies market rockets to launch other nation's satellites, and are involved in several partnerships with foreign concerns to provide similar launching services.
Charles P. Vick, an expert on the Russian space program with the Federation of American Scientists, in Washington, said it was in the interest of the United States and other nations that want Russia to succeed as a democratic, free-market country to preserve its aerospace sector and the skills it represents. "If it didn't have the International Space Station and commercial satellite launch contracts, that industry would collapse," Mr. Vick said.
The recent state of the Russian space program can be characterized by the Mir space station, which will mark its 15th year in orbit next February if it remains in orbit until then.
The station has had a crew for most of its life, but the last full-time crew left in August 1999, and mission control switched off most of its systems. The government said last spring that it could no longer afford the estimated $200 million annual cost of sustaining Mir, and planned to bring it down unless private money could be found. The prospect of closing the station was a blow to many Russians, who saw Mir as the symbol of a once-great space program.
MirCorp, a private company based in the Netherlands and backed by Western investors, stepped in early this year and signed an agreement with Energia to license the station for commercial use. Energia, which is 38 percent owned by the Russian government, became a 60-percent stockholder in MirCorp, and its president, Yuri Semenov, became director of the board.
MirCorp raised more than $40 million for missions to Mir, sponsoring two cargo ship flights carrying supplies and the first privately financed manned spaceflight with two Russian astronauts traveling to the station in April for a 73-day refurbishing mission. The company also signed several commercial deals, including a $20 million agreement to send an American millionaire to Mir next year as the first "citizen explorer" and a $20 million project with NBC for a televised competition that would send the winner to the station.
However, Russian officials said MirCorp had not been able to raise enough money fast enough to sustain Mir. Earlier this month, the company announced that it planned a public stock offering next year in hopes of raising $117 million for Mir projects. But Mr. Semenov of Energia and others questioned whether the money would arrive in time to save Mir.
Last week, the Russians sent up an unmanned Progress cargo ship carrying fuel and supplies which docked with Mir late Friday. MirCorp promised to pay the $10 million to $12 million cost, but said the money would not be available until possibly Dec. 1, which irked the Russians, according to Russian spokesmen.
The 143-ton station, slowed by the drag of the thin upper atmosphere, is slowly sinking toward Earth. So, the Progress spacecraft will be used to stabilize Mir in space and possibly boost it to a higher orbit. Or it could be used to begin the process of bringing the station down.
Jeffrey Lenorovitz, a spokesman for MirCorp, said company officials have been told by the Russians that they have a month to decide which way to go. "There is no pressure to make an immediate decision to boost or deorbit," Mr. Lenorovitz said. He said MirCorp felt Russian officials were giving it time to deliver on its financial promises before setting a date for Mir's destruction.
Experts believe much of Mir would not burn up upon re-entry and could pose a major hazard to people and property if it fell on land. So Energia has proposed that the Russian government send up another Progress carrying even more fuel to guide Mir down to an isolated spot in the Pacific Ocean.
Mr. Semenov was in Washington earlier this month to complete agreements between his company and Spacehab for a pressurized commercial module to attach to the Russian segment of the international station. Mr. Semenov's discussions included the possibility of transferring some of MirCorp's ideas to the new station if Mir were no longer available. "We are willing to consider accommodating any reasonable commercial suggestions," said Dr. Shelley A. Harrison, chairman of Spacehab.
Spacehab's cylindrical module, measuring 36 feet long and 12 feet in diameter, is set to be launched in 2003 on a Russian rocket. Dr. Harrison said it was to contain a full broadcast studio, laboratory space for lease and room for customized facilities for clients. Russian astronauts would be trained to operate equipment in the module.
Officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration overseeing the new station have said they are open to commercializing much of the new space outpost. But any major change to the station or sizable use of its resources would have to be approved by the other partners. And because of the tight construction schedule over the next five years, NASA officials said outside visitors might be restricted in early years.
The Spacehab module could face some immediate competition if the proposal by Boeing and Khrunichev goes forward. The Russian company wants to take a backup spacecraft it built for the Zarya control module and convert it into a commercial vehicle. Zarya was the first section of the space station launched in November 1998, to which the United States Unity connecting node was attached the following month.
Ralph N. Moslener, director of business development for Boeing International Space Systems, said his company was evaluating the needs of potential users and trying to finish the design of the module, which is already 70 percent complete. Potential clients include those who want to do mapping from space, media companies and pharmaceutical companies interested in drug processing.
Mr. Moslener said Boeing and Khrunichev had not formally agreed to build the commercial module, but would decide by the end of the year whether or not to go ahead with the project, expected to cost $200 million, including launching expenses.
Although neither the Boeing-Khrunichev nor Spacehab-Energia commercial modules has been built, the competition has already begun.
Someone will have to make a decision on where to park the competing units. Both groups want to attach their modules on the Russian part of the station at the same docking port. The prime spot is the so-called nadir port at the bottom of the station that always points toward Earth.
Spacehab officials say they have a solid contract for the spot, but some experts believe Boeing may be able to claim it if its module goes up first. "Our contention is that we are going to put together a proposal and submit it to the owners of the International Space Station," Mr. Moslener of Boeing said. "As to who will park where, it's up to the partners."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's drawing of a commercial module that would offer broadcasting and Internet services from the space station. (Spacehab)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ASTC (NASDAQ) (66%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS927110 SPACE RESEARCH & TECHNOLOGY (66%); NAICS336415 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNIT & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC9661 SPACE RESEARCH & TECHNOLOGY (66%); SIC3764 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNITS & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS (66%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ASTROTECH CORP (66%); BOEING CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS; MIR (SPACE STATION); INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES SPACE STATIONS (92%); SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (88%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



618 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Bush Economics

 BODY:

To the Editor:
George W. Bush's "compassionate conservatism" is the same basic philosophy that Republicans previously called "supply side" or "trickle down" economics (news article, Oct. 20). Putting a happy face on the package does not improve it.
The combination of cutting income taxes and eliminating estate taxes would benefit the rich almost exclusively. At a time of full employment, this kind of fiscal stimulation is also bad economic policy, and would lead to higher interest rates. 
 Mr. Bush's proposal to privatize part of Social Security would undermine the system while handing a windfall to Wall Street. Similarly, the Bush plan for prescription drugs would subsidize or bribe insurance companies to induce them to offer coverage to the public -- still another layer of corporate welfare. A Bush administration would be a large step in the direction of government of, by and for the rich.
 
ROBERT ORTNER
Short Hills, N.J., Oct. 20, 2000
 
The writer was under secretary of commerce in the Reagan administration. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); ESTATE TAX (87%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (86%); PRIVATIZATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); INSURANCE (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



619 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Cultural Revolutions

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
In the wake of the latest Middle East violence it's easy to fall into the trap of believing that this tribal war is the world. It is useful to remember that the very same week that 10.3 million Palestinians and Israelis fell back into conflict, America agreed to terms for 1.3 billion Chinese to enter the World Trade Organization, Slobodan Milosevic was ousted from power in Belgrade, President Clinton completed plans to visit Vietnam, the No. 2 leader in North Korea came to the Oval Office and asked the president for "normal relations," and Jordan became the fourth country to reach a free-trade agreement with America.
There is a dominant flow in the world today, and it is toward more integration, networking and the global economy; and there is a powerful undertow constantly pulling people back to struggles over who owns which olive tree -- wars over identity, culture, religion and politics. Both are happening at once, and you need to keep both in perspective. 
 Visiting China is a great reminder of that. What characterizes China today is that, like so many of its neighbors, it has chosen the future over the past. The Chinese have decided -- at least for the moment -- to go with the dominant flow. China has crossed the international dateline where it is now tomorrow, as opposed to much of the Middle East, which is again stuck on yesterday. That can change again, as it has before -- the lure and pressures of globalization don't go away just because your nation decides to ignore them for a while -- but it will take a huge renewed effort.
What the Chinese are now wrestling with is no longer whether to choose the future, but how to deal with the consequences of their choice. That is what people here are talking about. China is about to enter the W.T.O., which is going to force it to open up its economy to global competition and rules as never before. This will lead to huge investment in new companies and huge layoffs in inefficient old factories, which provided the health care, housing and social security for Chinese workers, many of whom will now have to fend for themselves.
China is making this leap because the Communist Party leadership concluded that without external pressure economic reform was not possible, and without economic reform continued growth was not possible, and without growth continued party rule was not possible. Recent reports that China was getting 11th-hour cold feet about joining the W.T.O. appear wrong. That came through in a talk I had yesterday with Qian Qichen, China's thoughtful deputy prime minister, who oversees foreign affairs.
"Psychologically we are prepared for it," said Mr. Qian in an interview at Zhongnanhai, the walled leadership headquarters. "Once we join the W.T.O. we will abide by the W.T.O. rules, while enjoying the rights and obligations. We should admit that our accession to W.T.O. will bring to us advantages and disadvantages. Our advantages lie in that we will be able to further expand our foreign trade and more fully participate in the international market. As for the disadvantages, it means that state-owned enterprises and other enterprises in China will be faced with fierce international competition. We are not afraid of such competition. It will expose Chinese enterprises and help them further develop, expand and improve. Those enterprises that can't survive clearly don't have the capacity for competition, so there is no value in their continued existence.
"It is not unusual for a worker to lose a job as a result of global competition ," added Mr. Qian. "What we must do is help those workers who have lost their jobs to learn new skills and find new jobs. That means we have to gradually build a social safety net which would cover those workers financially."
Mr. Qian also made clear that China is not backing away from its rapid Internet expansion: "The number of Internet users here doubles every six months," said Mr. Qian. "While providing useful information, the Internet has some negative contents and may also mislead the public. But it does more good than harm."
So fasten your seat belts. Because having bet on the future, the Chinese are leaping into it with no net. Wish them well, too. Because while the Middle East's Great Leap Backward truly breaks your heart, its effects can be contained. If China's new Great Leap Forward fails, we will all feel the pain. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TRENDS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); LAYOFFS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (72%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



620 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
This Just In From Elmira . . .

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
The presidential race has gotten so interesting that people are losing track of that Other Election here in New York. Fear not, I'm prepared to take questions.
So is Hillary Clinton going to show up for the World Series in her Yankee hat? 
 Mrs. Clinton says she is having trouble fitting it into her schedule. This is actually a reasonable excuse, since she could make a swing through the entire Finger Lakes region in the time it takes a Mets pitcher to retire one batter.
I can't believe you could be disrespectful about the Subway Series.
Please. Baseball is the only thing in the world that drags on longer than the presidential elections.
Now that it's almost over, how would you say Mrs. Clinton has been doing as a Senate candidate?
Whatever happens on Nov. 7, Hillary -- she wants us to call her Hillary -- has won one battle. She's made most New Yorkers forget how weird her situation is, that we've got a sitting first lady campaigning for the Senate in a state she never lived in before. Ten thousand health care symposiums and trips to dairy farms and tours of multi-ethnic elementary schools later, we're beaten down. We can't remember a single thing she's said over the last year and a half, but we've grown accustomed to her pitch.
Do you think she could have done as well if she'd run for Senate from Illinois?
Well, New Yorkers are better than most people at getting used to peculiar situations. This is, you'll remember, a city whose first lady is currently howling about her private parts Off Broadway, while her husband the mayor marches in ethnic parades with a first-lady-in-waiting. We have come to think of this as normal, and one additional first lady would hardly make a dent.
Did you believe President Clinton when he said that of all the races he's ever been in, he never wanted to win one as much as he wants Hillary to win the Senate seat?
I absolutely believe that Mr. Clinton cares more about today's race than last year's.
Does Senator Charles Schumer look forward to having Mrs. Clinton as his junior senator?
Yes, Senator Schumer is very excited about the possibility of sharing the stage with the most famous woman on the planet. He is undoubtedly looking forward to having Mrs. Clinton take over tiresome duties such as appearing on Sunday morning talk shows, being interviewed on the nightly news and holding well-attended press conferences, leaving him free to devote his time to upstate economic development.
What happens to New York if Hillary Clinton wins and the Republicans take the White House and Congress?
With two Democratic senators, one of them Mrs. Clinton, the state would not necessarily be at the front of the line when it comes time to divvy up the road-building projects. Perhaps we will change the state motto from "Excelsior" to "Cave Lacunas in Viis" ("Watch out for potholes").
What happened to Rick Lazio? I thought he was going to be such a great candidate.
There's still a chance he can pull this off, in which case we will look back on Mr. Lazio as a terrific campaigner who made a canny choice in devoting most of his rhetorical energy to descriptions of how his immigrant grandmother used to stir the tomato sauce. But it is not a good sign that in the Lazio ad where he visits an elementary school, your first impression is that Rick is a member of the student body.
When Al Gore invaded George W. Bush's space, everybody thought it was a great macho move, but when Mr. Lazio did it to Mrs. Clinton, he got killed. Do you think that's fair?
Nothing about campaigns is fair. It isn't fair that the vice president could lose the presidency because he's cursed with a dorky demeanor. It isn't fair that women who have been in public life for decades still get letters from their constituents about their haircuts. However, to be totally comparable, you'd have had to have a debate in which Al Gore invaded the space of, say, Liddy Dole, just after one member of an all-male panel of journalists asked her a really mean question about those Viagra commercials.
Who do you think it would be cooler to be on Halloween, Hillary, Gore or Bush?
I'm sorry, this is further than I can push the concept of cool. If you want to do something political, go as a Fuzzy Number. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (57%); NEW YORK METS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK METS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BASEBALL (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); COLLINS, GAIL HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



621 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

NEW LOW FOR EURO. The euro hit a new low on speculation that central banks will allow the currency to slide further before they intervene again. In New York, the euro settled at 83.58 cents, down from 84.12 cents on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since May 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



622 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: The Coach in Chief

 BODY:
The campaign is ticking by and the alarm meter among the Democratic faithful is ticking up. What happened to the Vice President Al Gore who made the smashing convention speech in Los Angeles and seemed ready to snatch Florida away from Gov. George W. Bush? How did the Democrats' Great Debater manage to let Mr. Bush slip-slide away with generalities about leadership and Beltway bickering? Finally, is it time to send out an S O S to the most restless lame duck in modern presidential campaign history?
No one who has watched Bill Clinton over the past five days can doubt that he is ready to carry the battle to the Republicans. In addressing Congressional Democrats in Washington last week and at a rally for Hillary Rodham Clinton on Long Island on Sunday, he defended his administration's record. But he also sounded like a debating coach dictating lines to a struggling student, in this case his vice president. "They're wrong. We're right. You've got to fight," Mr. Clinton said. "We tried it our way. We tried it their way. Our way is better." 
 Mr. Gore, for his part, faces both a generic and a specific problem. Vice presidents as different as Richard Nixon, Hubert Humphrey and George H. W. Bush have faced the general problem of stepping out of the shadow of large, and in some cases flawed, figures. Mr. Gore's special problem is that his senior partner's main achievement -- the best economic record in modern times -- ought to be a highly marketable political advantage. But when Mr. Gore dwells on Mr. Clinton's record, he plays into two main themes of the Bush campaign. Those are that Mr. Bush will bring a loftier standard of personal behavior to the Oval Office and that, in the long view, character is more important than experience.
From the standpoint of the Bush campaign, the more prominence for Mr. Clinton the better. Bush strategists had hoped all along to run against the president's personal reputation rather than Mr. Gore's policies. They profess to welcome a more prominent role for Mr. Clinton and see his direct attacks on Mr. Bush as actually adding to the governor's stature by elevating him to the presidential plateau.
Mr. Gore's not inconsiderable ego also played a role in the construction of the tactical box in which he finds himself. Since midway in the second term he has been hoping to run as the candidate who could deliver Clintonism without all that Arkansas-Lewinsky-Lincoln-Bedroom baggage. Now as his fellow Democrats are getting jumpy and talking about Mr. Clinton as an unused campaign resource, Mr. Gore needs to have the discipline to stick to the plan implicit in his convention declaration that "I stand here tonight as my own man."
Adding a series of joint appearances with Mr. Clinton now would carry the whiff of panic, especially given the convincing reports in The Times about the level of antipathy between the two men and their families. Mr. Clinton can and should be of use in targeted appearances to push Democratic turnout in places where he would be an unalloyed asset. Louisiana, where minority turnout is critical, and the tightening race in California come to mind.
But the president ought to discipline his tendency to upstage and undercut Mr. Gore with speeches in which the subtext is, "Hey, Al, here's how you make the case." Although Mr. Bush is holding a small, steady lead, neither candidate has closed the deal with the swing voters. Moreover, the decisive opinion shifts could come very late. Mr. Gore's best strategy is to remain the star of his campaign, no matter how loudly Mr. Clinton clears his throat and taps his foot. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; EDITORIALS; PUBLIC OPINION; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



623 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Report Faults Laws for Slowing Growth of Unions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
Marie Sylvain, a longtime nursing home worker, was so upset about her low wages and workload -- feeding, washing, dressing and changing linens for 14 patients each shift -- that she decided to lead a unionization drive.
But her employer soon fired her, and the organizing drive quickly fizzled as her 70 co-workers feared that they would also be dismissed if they pushed for a union. 
 That was four and a half years ago. Today, Ms. Sylvain voices intense frustration that, because of extended legal appeals, she has still not been reinstated even though a judge ruled nearly three years ago that her firing violated the National Labor Relations Act, which prohibits employers from firing or penalizing workers for supporting a union.
Ms. Sylvain's dismissal made her one of thousands of workers who are fired, demoted or otherwise punished each year for backing a union. A recent study of National Labor Relations Board data showed that from 1992 to 1997, employers fired or punished more than 125,000 workers for supporting a union.
Numerous academic studies showed that it frequently took three to five years for fired workers to be reinstated, delays that union leaders said often caused organizing drives to die at a time when the labor movement was seeking to add hundreds of thousands of members and reverse its decades-long decline.
"U.S. labor law is stacked against employees who wish to organize a union, allowing employers to intimidate and coerce workers not to unionize," said John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
But some experts said unions were having trouble attracting members, not because of firings and delays by the labor board, but because of economic changes, especially the shift from manufacturing to services.
"Job growth is coming where unions are historically weak," said Leo Troy, a labor economist at Rutgers University. "The economy is leaving unions behind. Employer behavior is virtually irrelevant to labor's decline. Employer behavior is an easy scapegoat."
The concern about obstacles to organizing is one reason labor is supporting Vice President Al Gore in the presidential race despite differences with him over trade. In numerous appearances at union conventions, Mr. Gore has vowed to push for changes that would make it easier for unions to organize.
"Vice President Gore has been the most outspoken champion of the freedom to join a union since Franklin Delano Roosevelt," Mr. Sweeney said.
A recent report by Human Rights Watch concluded that because of systematic violations by employers and long delays in obtaining legal redress, the United States was essentially violating international agreements guaranteeing the rights of workers to form unions.
"Most people view these issues as just a labor-management dispute," said Lance Compa, a Cornell University labor relations professor who wrote the Human Rights Watch report, "but we think the focus should be that there is a right of freedom of association recognized under international law, and that right is being widely denied in the United States."
In the 1950's, several hundred workers suffered reprisals each year for backing a union, according to National Labor Relations Board data. But Charles Morris, a professor emeritus at Southern Methodist University, said that by the late 1990's, employers carried out reprisals against more than 20,000 union supporters each year. He also found that 1 out of 18 workers involved in unionization drives faced some type of punishment for supporting the union.
Ms. Sylvain said her firing frightened other workers from backing a union at Palm Gardens nursing home.
"They say, 'Look what happened to Marie,' " said Ms. Sylvain, who said she was paid $6.50 an hour at the nursing home and needed food stamps and Medicaid to support herself and two children. "The law gives you something with one hand, and then it takes it away with the other."
But business groups argued that after eight years under President Clinton, the nation's enforcement was stacked against management, not unions.
"Back in the 1950's, unions were fat and happy and represented 35 percent of the labor force," said Randy Johnson, vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce.
"Now that they represent just 9 percent of private-sector workers," Mr. Johnson said, "they're blaming the law for their problems. They're trying to create a straw man instead of looking at the more logical explanation that the message unions have for workers isn't selling."
Many labor experts said the penalties that employers faced for firing union supporters were so modest that it made economic sense for companies to flout the law.
When the National Labor Relations Board ruled that Ernest Duval and six other fired workers should be reinstated five years after a nursing home in Palm Beach, Fla., fired them for leading a unionization drive, the labor board concluded that he was owed $1,800 in back pay. The award was modest because federal law requires employers to pay the wages workers missed after their dismissal, minus whatever they earned in other jobs they took after being fired.
The Human Rights Watch report said: "An employer determined to get rid of a union activist knows that all that awaits, after years of litigation if the employer persists in appeals, is a reinstatement order the worker is likely to decline and a modest back-pay award. For many employers, it is a small price to pay to destroy a workers' organizing effort by firing its leaders."
Mr. Compa said: "Firing is the single most potent anti-union weapon. The upshot is many employers can achieve their goal of remaining union-free by breaking the law."
 Vice President Gore has yet to spell out how he would change labor laws to make it easier to form unions. Also looking for ways to discourage illegal firings, Ralph Nader, the Green Party presidential candidate, has proposed that improperly fired union supporters receive punitive damages and lawyers' fees. Gov. George W. Bush, who has long clashed with unions, has not called for making it easier for workers to unionize.
Labor leaders said that as long as the Republicans controlled Congress, it would be difficult to enact laws making it easier to form unions. But, these leaders said, some steps could be taken under existing law, among them having the labor board's lawyers seek more injunctions that would quickly reinstate wrongly fired workers. That would allow the terminated employee to remain on the job during appeals.
Ms. Sylvain said she wished a court could have ordered her back to work while her case was appealed. In January 1998, 21 months after she was fired, an administrative law judge ruled that the nursing home had fired her illegally and that she should be reinstated. The judge found that the nursing home had concocted a story for firing by saying she took time off without filling out the required vacation forms.
In March 1999, the National Labor Relations Board in Washington affirmed that decision, but the nursing home appealed. On Oct. 5, a federal appeals court affirmed the labor board and ruled that Ms. Sylvain should be reinstated.
She is still not back on the job because the labor board has yet to negotiate her reinstatement with her the nursing home.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although a judge ruled in 1998 that Marie Sylvain was fired for trying to organize a Miami nursing home, she is still waiting to return to work. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ORGANIZED LABOR; NURSING HOMES; SUITS AND LITIGATION LABOR UNIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (83%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPEALS (71%); JUDGES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SYLVAIN, MARIE AL GORE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



624 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Pact Is Reached In Actor Strike

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 23

 BODY:
A nearly six-month strike by thousands of actors who appear in television commercials was tentatively resolved today, ending a bitter labor dispute that involved issues ranging from pay in commercials on cable programs to advertisements on the Internet.
The walkout was the longest and one of the most fractious talent strikes in the history of Hollywood. It raised issues and set the stage, in some ways, for a far bigger labor confrontation planned next summer against film studios and television networks by actors as well as writers. Studios and networks are already in high gear making films and television shows before the threatened strike could shut down the entire entertainment industry. 
 In agreeing to end the strike, the advertisers settled several demands made by the two unions representing the actors. One of the demands was a near doubling over three years in the maximum flat fees paid to actors in commercials on cable television.
The advertisers also dropped their resistance to recognizing the jurisdiction of the unions for commercials that run on the Internet.
Representatives of two unions, the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, announced the tentative end of the strike against advertisers following prolonged talks at the Millennium Hotel in Manhattan. The boards of both unions are set to endorse the agreement on Saturday, and the full memberships will vote shortly after that. A Screen Actors Guild official said that commercial actors could be working again as early as next week.
"All of us realize that for our common good it was time to end this strike," said William Daniels, an actor who is president of the Screen Actors Guild. Anywhere from 5,000 to 10,000 actors who earn a significant portion of their incomes making commercials were affected by the strike, which received financial support in recent months from such millionaire stars as Harrison Ford, Nicolas Cage, Helen Hunt, Kevin Spacey, Eddie Murphy and Bruce Willis. About 40 percent of the striking commercial actors live in New York, the Screen Actors Guild said.
At stake in the strike, which began May 1, were several issues. One of them was the rate of pay for actors who make commercials for cable programs. Actors, as well as writers, have long insisted that they had accepted less money for cable advertisements to help the cable industry establish itself. In recent years, though, the actors felt that now-profitable and lucrative cable stations were essentially exploiting them.
Under the agreement, actors would be paid a steady increase of fees for commercials on cable television. The deal stipulates that an actor's fees climb from a maximum of $1,360 in the first year of the contract to $1,706 in the second year and $2,460 in the third year. These maximum amounts are paid to an actor every quarter if an advertisement appears during that time. Currently actors making commercials receive a maximum $1,014 each quarter.
Another issue involved the unions' insistence that they have jurisdiction over ads using actors on the Internet. "Frankly, they wanted to cut us out by not granting us jurisdiction for commercials to be made on the Internet," said Greg Krizman, a spokesman for the Screen Actors Guild. "Depending whom you talk to, that's potentially the fastest point of growth for the ad industry."
The advertisers seem to have bowed to the unions on the Internet issue. Ira M. Shepard, a Washington lawyer who was chief negotiator for the advertisers, said that "we hammered out a fair compromise so the union would have limited jurisdiction in the future over commercials made exclusively for the Internet." He said that it was still unclear to what degree the Net would be used in employing actors to advertise products.
The strike had a definite impact on the economy of Los Angeles, where many of the commercials are filmed. Jack Kyser, chief economist at the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit group, estimated direct financial losses of about $125 million. Moreover, there was an additional business loss of $103 million because the strike also affected such businesses as catering.
There had been speculation recently that the strike would be settled during this round of talks, which began in New York on Thursday. The Screen Actors Guild was under increasing pressure to resolve the strike, partly because of heightened restiveness by actors toward the union's leadership.
The impact of the strike was visible and audible because familiar faces and voices were honoring the picket lines and not making commercials. For instance, Anheuser-Busch had planned to produce more commercials in the popular "Whassup!" series for Budweiser beer, but the actors who play the friends in the spots would not work during the strike, so during the Olympics and baseball playoffs the company reran old spots in the series. Coca-Cola had planned to start running a new campaign for Diet Coke, carrying the theme "Live it up. Drink it down," but had to postpone the introduction of the commercials.
And Burger King was hampered in producing new spots because Kathleen Turner, who has been the voice in the chain's current campaign, honored the strike; a replacement voice was required.
Watching high-profile TV shows like the Olympics, baseball playoffs, N.F.L. games, it seemed there were fewer new commercials and more spots were being rerun over and over, perhaps because of limited output of new spots with union talent.
During the strike, however, the Joint Policy Committee on Broadcast Talent Union Relations, as the coalition of advertisers and agencies negotiating with the unions is known, disseminated data that showed production was "virtually unimpeded," as the committee described it, by the strike. Many commercials were shot with nonunion talent, while others were moved to Canada or Mexico or overseas to shoot.
The commercial strike, the longest in the history of actors' unions, had a public side to it as well. The striking actors recently asked consumers to begin boycotting three products made by one of the big advertisers, the Procter & Gamble Company, in an effort to apply pressure to the advertisers and agencies. Forty-four cast members of two soap operas produced by P.& G., "As the World Turns" and "Guiding Light," sent a letter to Alan G. Lafley, the company's president and chief executive, urging him to help bring a "speedy resolution" to the strike.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS LOS ANGELES COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (55%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES; STRIKES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD EDDIE MURPHY (58%); BRUCE WILLIS (58%); NICOLAS CAGE (58%); HARRISON FORD (58%); KEVIN J HUNT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



625 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Gore's Stump Speech: A Clear Choice, With Clear Visions for the Future

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of a speech by Vice President Al Gore on Saturday night at Martin Luther King High School in Philadelphia, as recorded by The New York Times:
What a crowd in Philadelphia! Whooooo! This is amazing! Thank you for being here, Mayor John Street. You told me you'd throw a good party. Philadelphia knows how to throw a good party. Live from Philadelphia! It's Saturday night! 
 I want to thank Bob Brady, your great congressman and party chair. And Congressman Chaka Fattah. Thank you. They do a great job. I want to thank Auditor General Bob Casey Jr. back here. Thank you, Bob. I want to acknowledge our secretary of labor, Alexis Herman, who's around here somewhere. I want you to know my national campaign chairman -- person -- the best ever, Donna Brazile. She's probably organizing right now.
I want to ask you to join with me in a very special welcome and then join with me in making sure we elect him as the next senator from Pennsylvania, Ron Klink.
Tina Tartaglione, our state party chair, thank you, and all the distinguished guests who are here. John Myers, state representative. I want to thank the Martin Luther King band and choir. Thank you all for doing a great job. It's great to be in a school named after one of my heroes. Tomorrow morning I will fly out of Philadelphia to Dallas, Tex., where I will speak to a large gathering with Coretta Scott King. And I'll be speaking about justice and values. And this evening I want to talk to you about the choice that we face in this election on Nov. 7.
Seventeen days from now, Pennsylvania will decide who the next president of the United States will be. Seventeen days from now, Philadelphia will decide what Pennsylvania decides. Seventeen days from now, the people in this room will decide what Philadelphia decides.
The choice is very clear. The contrast is very stark. We have a choice between two candidates. But it's not about me or Governor Bush. It is about you and your family and your city and your future. Prosperity is on the ballot Nov. 7. Education and health care are on the ballot. Social Security is on the ballot. The environment is on the ballot. The future of your family is on the ballot Nov. 7.
The other side is trying to convince this country that we were a lot better off eight years ago than we are today. (Boos.) That was my reaction also. They want to go back to the kind of policies that we had eight years ago.
Let me tell you, we've got a lot of work left to do, but we have made some progress in the last eight years because we've turned the biggest deficits that they left us into the biggest surpluses. Instead of repeat recessions, we've seen a tripling of the stock market. Instead of high unemployment, we have the lowest African-American unemployment ever measured, the lowest Latino unemployment ever measured, 22 million new jobs and the strongest economy in the 224-year history of the United States of America. That's progress! But it's not good enough. I'm not satisfied. You ain't seen nothing yet!
 
A Vision of the Future
I see a future in which our prosperity is continued and everybody participates. Nobody is left behind. More jobs. Balance the budget every year, pay down the debt every year. I want to completely eliminate the national debt early in the next decade so it's not on the shoulders of these children.
I think it's time to invest in health care and education and the environment and middle-class tax cuts for the people who most need tax cuts and retirement security. I will put Social Security and Medicare in a lockbox and veto anything that takes money out of it.
Now let me tell you what the other side has proposed. They have proposed a tax cut for the very wealthy, a very big tax cut for the wealthy that gives almost half of the benefits to the top 1 percent. In the debates just concluded, the moderator, Jim Lehrer, asked Governor Bush whether or not it was true what I was saying about his massive tax cuts for the wealthy and whether or not it benefits the top 1 percent so much and Governor Bush's answer was, "Of course it does." Does that represent the wrong priority for America? Of course it does! Is that the wrong choice for our future? Of course it is.
He proposes -- and his own numbers show this -- to spend more money on a tax cut for the top 1 percent than all of the new money that he proposes to spend on education and health care and national defense combined. You have an opportunity between now and November the 7th to put your feelings into action, to put your beliefs on the street, to put your wishes into the form of votes on the part of your neighbors and friends. This is the closest election since John Kennedy won the presidency in 1960 by one vote per precinct. I want to ask every single person here to get me one more vote per precinct between now and November the 7th. And then some!
The other side, my opponent, has proposed to take a trillion dollars out of the Social Security trust fund, and he has promised it to two different groups of people. He's promised it to young people for savings and investment, and then he's promised the same trillion dollars to seniors to prevent any cuts in benefits. Now, I know that one and one equals two. I know that the only way to describe a promise to give the same one trillion dollars to two different groups of people is to say, what kind of math is that? Fuzzy math! Fuzzy math! Fuzzy math!
His own chief economist, when confronted with what he said in the debate about Social Security, said, "I don't know why the governor said what he said." Now, if his own economist can't explain what he said, how can the rest of America figure it out? Fuzzy math! If the proposal, according to the best economist, causes the bankruptcy of Social Security, then that is a consequence that is unacceptable for our country.
But my friends, we have got to put our beliefs in motion. We have got to get people out to the voting booth. We have got to get people encouraged to vote in large numbers because the future of our country is at stake.
Here's what I believe. I believe that we need to have an economic policy that puts people first, that has fiscal responsibility to keep the economy growing strongly, to make sure that we include everyone. For example, I'm for raising the minimum wage a dollar an hour for those who most need help. I'm for investing in the priorities that are most important to people. Where health care is concerned, we have to start taking the medical decisions away from the H.M.O.'s and give them back to the doctors and the nurses and the health care professionals. And it is time to recognize that seniors, especially those on fixed incomes, are having trouble choosing those between their medicine and their meals, choosing between some medicines and other prescriptions. It is time for a prescription drug benefit for all seniors under the Medicare program. I'm for it; my opponent is not.
 
'The Challenge of Equality'
I believe it is time to address the challenge of equality. We need an equal day's pay for an equal day's work for women in this country. We need a Supreme Court that reflects our values in this country. We need to pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act in this country. We need to pass a hate-crimes law in America. We need to enforce the civil rights laws in America.
We need a commitment to our nation's schools to make them the best in the world. With smaller classes. More one-on-one time. And I want to give every middle-class family a tax deduction for college tuition of $10,000 a year. I believe it's time to recognize that we've all got to hang together. We've all got to stay together and vote together and organize together. And I believe it is time for men and women in the workplace to have the right to organize without it being undermined. That means that I'm for a law to get rid of permanent striker replacement in America.
Now, when we talk about the importance of staying together, we also have to understand how that applies to our nation as a whole. We must resolve that never again will we allow people to divide us along the lines of race or ethnicity or religion or any of those distinctions like gender, or who your partner is. We need to have a commitment to fairness.
Now, my friends, this election is up to you. It's a question of the economy, it's a question of values. You know that it's right to help parents and strengthen families. You know parents need more tools to protect their children against the cultural pollution that threatens the values that they want in their families. You know that we need after-school programs for the youngsters who are tempted to get in trouble after school. You know that we need more child care, affordable child care and help for stay-at-home parents also.
Now, finally, here is what it comes down to. We have got to recognize that our values have to be put into action at election time. I believe that we need to fight for clean air and clean water and against global warming and for an environment that's good for our children. I believe it's time to make every school gun-free and violence-free and drug-free.
 
The Importance of Passion
But finally, I want to ask each and every one of you not only for your vote and for your support, but for your enthusiasm and something more. I want to ask you for something that's difficult for you to give, something that people hardly ever give anymore. I want you to open your hearts and allow yourselves to genuinely believe that we can do the right thing in America and be the better for it, that we can have campaign finance reform, that we can turn out the vote.
Now, when I talk about turning out the vote, I'm extremely aware that Philadelphia can make up the margin in the entire Keystone State of Pennsylvania. I'm keenly aware that that turnout depends upon each and every one of you. So here's what I'm asking. When you go home after this rally, and when you encounter your neighbors and your friends during the next 17 days, I want you to arm yourselves with the issues and the arguments about why our priorities are good for the country and the other side would take us on a right-wing U-turn back to the economic problems of the past.
But then I want you to arm yourself with something else -- and that is the passion of your belief, the strength of your conviction, the steel of your determination, the passion of your feelings about the future. When you encounter someone who says it doesn't make any difference who appoints the next three justices of the Supreme Court, when you encounter someone who says it doesn't make any difference what kind of economic priorities we have in America, when you encounter someone who says they don't even think they're going to take the time to vote, what I want you to do is not just give them the facts, I want you to give them the feeling. I want you to give them a piece of your mind, and then your whole heart. I want you to tell them how much you care.
My friends, sometimes the people who have the strongest ideals and the best hearts convince themselves they need to stay at arm's length from the political process. Maybe they're afraid their hearts will be broken, maybe they're afraid they'll be disappointed, let down or disillusioned. I'm telling you. I've said this before but I'll say it again. I may not always be the most exciting politician, like John Street or Chaka Fattah or Bob Brady, but I will work for you every single day, I'll fight for your families and I'll never let you down.
I know this. I know one thing about the job of president. It is the only position in the Constitution that is filled by someone who is given the responsibility to fight not just for one group, not just for one state or district, not just for the wealthy or the well-connected or the powerful, not just for the top 1 percent. A president who does the job right has to be willing to fight for all of the people, especially you, especially those who most need a champion. I'm running for president because I want to fight for you. I want to fight for your family. I want to fight for Philadelphia. For Pennsylvania! For the future of the United States of America. God bless you. I need your help. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHOICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%); ROBERT A BRADY (78%); ROBERT T BRADY (78%); BOB CASEY (65%); CHAKA FATTAH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



626 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: AN ILLINOIS RACE;
Attacked From Right, but That's Nothing New

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: ROCK ISLAND, Ill.

 BODY:
Republicans here say the liberalism of Lane Evans, the Democratic congressman who has represented the district for 18 years, scarcely fits this farm-and-factory region of northwestern Illinois.
It is a claim they have made for nine elections and are pressing again this year as Mr. Evans seeks a 10th term. As in the last two races, they have nominated Mark Baker, a former television newscaster, in hopes of unseating the congressman and helping to confound Democratic efforts to wrest control of the House. 
 "This district looks like it ought to be a tossup," said Jim Winship, a political science professor at Augustana College here. "But the Republicans have just not been able to crack it."
The Rock Island-Moline area, home to the tractor maker Deere & Company, was once known as the Detroit of the Farm Belt, a center of good-paying assembly-line jobs protected by strong unions, especially the United Automobile Workers. That blue-collar foundation remains the source of the Democratic strength here in the 17th Congressional District, although the number of U.A.W. jobs has been declining since the mid 1980's, when a big International Harvester plant shut down and other agricultural equipment makers, including Deere, were hit hard by the farm recession.
The Republican hopes lie in the district's small towns and rural stretches and in the more affluent parts of East Moline, home to many of the area's white-collar workers.
Mr. Baker, the Republican challenger, has sought to highlight social issues, noting Mr. Evans's support for abortion rights and gay rights and his opposition to a constitutional amendment that would allow Congress to ban flag-burning.
"Those just aren't the value systems in western Illinois," Mr. Baker said as he greeted factory workers in the small city of Sterling. "And that's what's going to bring him down."
Mr. Evans replies that after 18 years in Congress, he is familiar to the voters.
"If it were true," he said of the accusation that he is too liberal for his constituents, "it would have caused me to lose my job."
The son of two Rock Islanders -- a firefighter and a nurse -- Mr. Evans said he needed no lectures about the district's mores. "I'm born and raised here," he said. "I know the values of people here."
In fact, this is not a district that has historically been driven by sharply conservative views, even among Republicans. The last Republican to represent it was Thomas F. Railsback, a moderate who as a member of the House Judiciary Committee voted to recommend the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon.
In any event, there is little confusion about where the candidates stand, judging from two dozen interviews on the sidewalks of the district.
To Don Walker, a 53-year-old construction worker, Mr. Evans deserves support because he has been loyal to unions.
"He sides with the working people," Mr. Walker said as he filled his pickup truck with gasoline. "Wages are definitely up. Everybody who wants to work is working."
But to Phil Rocker, a 72-year-old farmer, Mr. Evans's support for unions is a bit too automatic.
"He's 100 percent for the unions, no matter what the issue is," Mr. Rocker said. "I don't have anything against Evans as a person. It's just that he's so liberal, and I tend to be a little more on the conservative side."
But much of the talk in this campaign has centered on entirely local issues like the odors emanating from waste lagoons at huge hog-confinement operations, and the debate on whether to build another bridge over the Mississippi River.
"The economy has come back a lot from the hard times of the 80's," Professor Winship said. "It's a much more diversified region than it used to be. And riverboat gambling has provided a lot of jobs."
The district is more than 94 percent white, and its population nearly 40 percent rural. In the last two presidential elections, the voters here sided with Bill Clinton, who defeated Bob Dole by 13 points in 1996. The last two Congressional races have been much closer, with Mr. Evans winning 52 percent of the vote against Mr. Baker in each.
A peripheral issue in the race this year has been the health of Mr. Evans, who has Parkinson's disease. Evans backers say Mr. Baker's frequent references to his own high level of energy is a not-so-subtle reminder to voters of the congressman's condition.
Mr. Evans has run advertisements talking about his case of Parkinson's, which he says does not interfere with his duties but does make him more understanding of the challenges faced by people with illnesses.
To a voter like Debbie Schweska, Mr. Evans's condition makes him even more appealing, as a politician who understands the difficulties of the underdog.
"You've got these Republicans who are harping about the marriage tax," said Ms. Schweska, who works in a convenience store. "Give me a break. Let's talk about the people who are really struggling, like the moms on welfare who don't get a nickel in child support."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Baker, above, is challenging Representative Lane Evans, whom Republicans have long called too liberal for his district. (Photographs by The Rock Island Argus)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Illinois's 17th District"
POPULATION (1990): 571,585
 
RACE AND ETHNICITY
WHITE -- 94.7%
BLACK -- 3.2
ASIAN-AMERICAN -- 0.6
AMERICAN INDIAN -- 0.2
OTHER -- 1.3
HISPANIC (ANY RACE) -- 2.9%
RURAL POPULATION -- 38.3%
AGE 65 AND OLDER -- 17.1%
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME -- $25,195
 
ELECTION RESULTS
 
1998 CONGRESSIONAL
Mark Baker (R) -- 48%
Lane Evans (D) -- 52%
 
1996 PRESIDENTIAL
Dole -- 38%
Clinton -- 51%
Perot -- 10%
 
(Source: Almanac of American Politics 2000)
 
Map of Illinois shows the location of the 17th Congressional District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); 

CITY: ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) DEERE & CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (95%); ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); IMPEACHMENT (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); ABORTION (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; BAKER, MARK; EVANS, LANE (REPR) RICHARD NIXON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



627 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Yemeni Supply Firm Emerges as a Focus of Inquiry Into Ship Attack

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: ADEN, Yemen, Oct. 23

 BODY:
As the destroyer Cole rounded the Cape of Aden 12 days ago and followed a pilot boat to its berth in Aden harbor, its arrival set off a flurry of activity at a ramshackle suite of offices near the port.
Under lazy fans that cool the second-story walk-up on Ali Mohsen al-Meraisi Street, named for a 1960's soccer player who was Aden's equivalent of Mickey Mantle, shirt-sleeved shipping clerks at a small family-owned firm prepared to provide chandlering services to the Cole. 
 Behind a fading sign declaring "Al Mansoob for Ship Supply and General Trade," the company's owners proudly declare that their chandlering operations have made the company "King of the Sea" in these parts, though for the last 30 years this once crucial and proud port has been a backwater, and it may soon sink back into near-obscurity.
Chandlering involves resupplying vessels with everything from paint and rope to fuel and fresh food and water, as well as clearing garbage and otherwise preparing ships to set to sea again. The Cole was a customer because Al Mansoob had the chandlering contract for all United States Navy ships, which started using Aden in 1999 to refuel ships moving between the Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf and the Far East.
That meant that at least some of the staff at Al Mansoob's offices knew at least 48 hours in advance about the Cole's progress through the Suez Canal and into the Red Sea, that the ship was a guided-missile destroyer and that its arrival here would be the signal for a small flotilla of service boats, including at least two from Al Mansoob, to move around it like pilot fish.
One of the two Mansoob boats was a barge sent to unload garbage. Another, according to Yemeni investigators, took at least one employee from Al Mansoob out to the ship, where he was when the bombing occurred that killed 17 sailors and 2 men on a skiff carrying the explosives. Thus Al Mansoob immediately became the focus of investigators after the Cole was attacked. Many of Al Mansoob's 35 employees, including the general manager, Ahmed al-Mansoob, and the man believed to have been aboard the Cole, Hussain Bakhateer, were detained by the Yemenis for questioning, although all but Mr. Bakhateer were later released.
Now, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, working with Yemeni investigators, has determined that the bombers' skiff was not part of the service flotilla, having approached the Navy ship from a different direction, a remote boat ramp six miles to the west across the Bay of Aden.
These discoveries appear to have prompted the investigators to review, if not abandon, earlier theories that the refueling operation was infiltrated by the bombers, perhaps with the connivance of the other service vessels, or part of some conspiracy in which the resupply operation was used as a decoy to allow the attack craft to slide alongside the Cole.
But while the F.B.I. is following up a cascade of discoveries last week -- the boat ramp, an abandoned four-wheel-drive vehicle and a boat trailer believed to have been used by the bombers and five safe houses in Aden where the bombers may have prepared the boat and the bomb and tested an outboard motor -- Al Mansoob and its staff remain under the spotlight. Now, Yemeni investigators say, the focus is on determining whether the chandlering operation could have been used to gather intelligence about the Cole's docking plans or to time the attack so that it meshed unobtrusively with the service operation.
Beyond that, longer-range inquiries by the F.B.I., the Navy and the Senate Armed Services Committee, which opened its own hearings in Washington last week, seem certain to focus on Al Mansoob as they seek to assess how thoroughly the Navy prepared its refueling operations.
Inquiries made by reporters here and statements by Pentagon officials suggest that the firm's security was loose enough that determined conspirators might have had little trouble compromising it.
Before the Cole was attacked, Mr. Mansoob, the general manager, had boasted that the Navy contract was pure gold. His reasoning, other chandlering agents recall, was that the Navy's seal of approval would entrench a dominance that the company had enjoyed since the distant days when Aden was a stopover for steamer passengers heading to and from British India and other destinations in the Far East.
But now, the Navy contract looks as though it could turn into something more like lead for the company and for the port of Aden if the inquiry leads the Navy to conclude that refueling there will end.
British, French and other foreign navies that have occasionally brought their ships here for service would be likely to follow the American lead. "If Yemen is really going to begin moving economically, it's going to need a full recovery in Aden port," one of the American officials involved in assessing Aden's suitability before the 1999 contract was let said today at a briefing for reporters. "And if there's no confidence in this port, international shipping will not come in -- it's that simple."
Before Yemeni investigators turned up the heat on the company, other reporters had conversations with Addullah al-Khalqi, the marketing manager, who said that most of Al Mansoob's employees were family members and that none had been checked for past involvement with criminal or terrorist activities. When asked why not, Mr. Khalqi replied, "We believe their word."
Pentagon officials have said security checks for employees of Yemeni companies or other intrusive efforts to make sure that port operations were not vulnerable to infiltration impossible, given Yemeni concerns about sovereignty.
The officials have been quoted as saying that any foolproof measures to secure the port would have required "militarizing" it.
But leaving security to the Yemenis meant, in effect, that the Navy was relying on a government with a shaky record in dealing with terrorist groups. Although the American Embassy has praised the government for its efforts to crack down in the last two years, Washington has often been sharply critical about the government's laxity in allowing the issuing of false passports to terrorists, or leaving controls at the Aden port so lax that they could pass unhindered in and out of Yemen.
Navy and embassy officials here have refused to detail what security arrangements, if any, were made to secure a perimeter around the Cole, saying such operational matters are not made public. One unanswered question has been whether the Navy posted picket boats in the harbor to warn off intruding boats. Since the attack on the Cole, a large inflatable Navy boat, 50 to 60 feet long with heavy machine guns mounted fore and aft and a crew of 15 to 20 sailors in helmets and flak jackets, has mounted a round-the-clock patrol around the Cole.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Yemen shows the location of Aden: Security in Aden is under scrutiny since the bombing of the Cole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); RED SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MANSOOB (CO) FAR EAST MOTORS (54%); US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AL MANSOOB (CO) US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN; YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (92%); RED SEA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLE (USS); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NAVIES; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YEMEN; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES MILITARY VESSELS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (85%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); CONSPIRACY (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); TERRORISM (61%); SOCCER (56%); ATHLETES (56%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F AL MANSOOB (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



628 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Chairman of Lucent Is Ousted by Board After Profit Erosion

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
The board of Lucent Technologies has ousted its chairman and chief executive, Richard A. McGinn, in a move to curb the earnings erosion that threatens to undermine Lucent, the world's largest manufacturer of telecommunications equipment.
Lucent's board replaced Mr. McGinn, who only two weeks ago insisted that he had no plans to leave the company, with Henry Schacht, who served as Lucent's first chairman and chief executive for 18 months after it was spun off from AT&T in 1996. The board took action Sunday night, and the company announced the change yesterday morning. 
 To take the post, Mr. Schacht, 66, resigned as chairman of Avaya Inc., a manufacturer of office communications equipment that itself was spun off from Lucent earlier this year. He plans to remain on the Avaya board as he serves as Lucent's interim head while it conducts a search for another chief executive.
Mr. McGinn was Lucent's president under Mr. Schacht. But during Mr. McGinn's three-year tenure as chief executive, Lucent went from a fast-growing Wall Street darling to a source of concern among many investors after it did not meet optimistic growth promises.
Each financial quarter this year, the company has had to warn that earnings would be lower than analysts had expected -- a string that was extended yesterday, when Lucent warned that not only earnings, but revenue, would decline in the quarter that ends in December.
After the stock market's close yesterday, Lucent said revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2001, which ends in December, would decline by about 7 percent from $7.9 billion in the period a year earlier, while earnings from operations would break even at about $1.08 billion.
The company said the revised expectations reflected difficulties it had had in rolling out a new generation of optical networking equipment that allowed large amounts of digital information to be transmitted using a single wavelength of light.
Lucent's stock has declined by 72 percent from a high of $79.58 only 10 months ago. The company's shares fell 56 cents, to $22.06 yesterday. With 5.3 million shareholders, Lucent is among the most widely held stocks in the United States.
"It's been a frustrating, rocky road," said John Waterman, managing director of Rittenhouse Financial Services, a Philadelphia investment manager with more than seven million Lucent shares in its portfolio. "The need for fresh blood is essential."
Lucent also reported financial results yesterday for its fiscal fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 30. In keeping with a previous warning, Lucent reported a loss of $225 million, or 13 cents a share, including a loss for discontinued operations.
Excluding costs for acquisitions, earnings from continuing operations were $600 million, or 18 cents a share, down from $768 million, or 24 cents a share, while revenue increased 14.6 percent, to $9.4 billion in the quarter.
Earnings declined after the company set aside funds to cover potentially questionable debts from clients that borrowed money to acquire Lucent's products. In addition, sales of voice switches and fiber optic equipment were not as robust the company had hoped.
In a conference call with investors, Lucent also attributed the earnings decline to an unexpected shortfall of approximately $2 billion in revenue from contracts with two clients, one in the United States and the other abroad. The company did not provide the names of the clients.
"We are clearly disappointed in our results," said Mr. Schacht, Lucent's new chief executive.
If anything, Lucent's woes highlight an old-economy technology company focused previously on voice telephone calls and PC-centric practices that has struggled to make the transition to the new economy's emphasis on data exchanges and Internet-centric activities.
Part of Lucent's problems may derive from a failure to deliver products developed by the company's Bell Labs research division to customers in a nimble and efficient way, analysts said.
"Smaller competitors are nibbling away at Lucent's chair," said Greg Geiling, an analyst at J. P. Morgan. "Psychologically, it's had a devastating effect, so some catalyst is needed to stem defections."
At Lucent, which is based in Murray Hill, N.J. and has 126,000 employees, staff turnover has reached 20 percent this year. It has becoming increasingly clear that Lucent has languished while companies in the fiber optics arena, like Nortel Networks of Canada and the Ciena Corporation, and makers of the router boxes that handle Internet traffic, most notably Cisco Systems and Juniper Networks, have raced ahead.
It was uncertain late yesterday from which industry or company Lucent might seek to recruit a new chief executive. But analysts said candidates would most likely come from competitors that are familiar with Lucent's business.
In the meantime, the company's management did not rule out layoffs for some of the company's work force as part of a company overhaul, said Deborah Hopkins, the company's chief financial officer.
"I am personally grateful for Rich McGinn's contributions to the business," Mr. Schacht wrote in a letter to Lucent employees. "However, the board felt a different set of skills was required at this point in the company's life."
Mr. McGinn was not available for comment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two weeks ago, Richard A. McGinn insisted he had no plans to leave Lucent. He was dismissed on Sunday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; AVAYA INC ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); AVAYA INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES; AVAYA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; FINANCES EXECUTIVES (91%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; MCGINN, RICHARD A; SCHACHT, HENRY B HENRY B SCHACHT (92%); DAVID DAVIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



629 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: ON THE STUMP -- THE SPEECH;
Gore Sharpens His Message in Campaign's Frenetic Closing Days

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 22

 BODY:
With the clock ticking to Election Day, Vice President Al Gore's stump speech has taken on a new urgency.
Gone are his leisurely strolls down memory lane; long absent is the once standard story of his father showing him slave chains in an old house in Tennessee. Gone is the fascination with suburban sprawl and traffic jams and lost luggage at airports, the focus on the hassles of daily life that threatened to turn the presidential campaign into a contest for the local zoning board. And, now that the three official debates are over and Mr. Gore has emerged in a weaker position than when he went into them, gone is his constant clamor for two or three debates a week. Gone too are the jokes, if not the humor. 
 Mr. Gore is now focused almost single-mindedly on what he calls "the big choices": Social Security, Medicare, health care, education and the economy. He has boiled his message down to its essence, a math problem, basically, that in his view has only one right answer: Mr. Gore would use the budget surplus responsibly, with discipline, while Gov. George W. Bush would squander it and drive the nation to ruin.
"Prosperity itself is on the ballot," Mr. Gore declares now in his most succinct argument for his candidacy. Coupled with this is a phrase that Governor Bush used against him in their first debate and that Mr. Gore has appropriated with great glee. "Fuzzy math!" Mr. Gore often shouts as he picks apart Mr. Bush's proposals for a tax cut and privatizing part of Social Security. "Fuzzy math!" To the disciplined Mr. Gore, this is a huge failing, and it seems to stick in his craw that Mr. Bush used it against him first.
The new urgency was evident here on Saturday night, in a high school gymnasium so stuffy that the formal Mr. Gore rolled up his shirt sleeves and mopped his face with a white handkerchief as he delivered in a crisp 18 minutes the essentials of his message. The crowd of several hundred people was cheering most of the time and the acoustics were terrible, circumstances that forced the often wordy Mr. Gore to cut short his tendencies to overinstruct an audience and speak in run-on sentences.
The larger circumstances -- Governor Bush's tiny lead in the polls, the nearness of Election Day, the demands on his dwindling time -- also forced him into a more direct message, leaving behind the desultory ramble through the high points of his parents' careers to a sharp and urgent plea for help on the eve of the closest presidential race in 40 years.
This often happens over the course of a long campaign, although few have seemed as long as this one. A candidate spends the primary season introducing himself, uses his convention to define his themes and presses those themes through the fall. For Mr. Gore, this was a lengthy process that included a bitter primary battle against a left-leaning challenger, former Senator Bill Bradley, who forced the vice president to take more liberal positions than he might otherwise have.
For Mr. Gore, the process has highlighted his search for both an identity and a message. His changing stump speech is a manifestation of that search.
All year Mr. Gore has been trying to sort out how to take credit for the economy without bragging and without casting himself as President Clinton's eclipsed No. 2. He lays out the facts as he has all year, saying: "We've turned the biggest deficits into the biggest surpluses. Instead of triple-dip recessions, we've seen a tripling of the stock market. Instead of high unemployment, we have the lowest African-American unemployment ever measured, the lowest Latino unemployment ever measured, 22 million new jobs and the strongest economy in the 224-year history of the United States of America."
But now he adds a twist designed to separate himself from Mr. Clinton and propel his candidacy into the future instead of the past: "But I'm not satisfied," he bellows. "You ain't seen nothing yet!"
Mr. Gore has also dropped most references to himself. After months of "introducing" himself to the public, Mr. Gore is spending these final frantic weeks insisting that the race is about issues, not about personality. "This is not about me and it's not about Governor Bush," he says in nearly every speech. "It is about you and your family."
As Mr. Gore emerged from his vice presidential shell, he was forced into a public search for a personal narrative to explain who he was and where he came from. For months, he dwelled on stories about his parents, whose up-from-the-hollers grit seemed more inspirational than the facts of Mr. Gore's own life, in which the drama was internal and the journey abstract.
He talked about climbing Mount Rainier with his son, an arduous experience that he translated on the campaign trail into vague thoughts about scanning the horizon. Another staple was a line from the movie, "Grand Canyon," in which a character says, "It's not supposed to be this way." Mr. Gore often quoted Gandhi, saying, "You must become the change you wish to see in the world." Another favorite was a line from the Spanish poet Antonio Machado: "Traveler, there is no path. You make your path as you travel."
These expressions were supposed to provide a glimpse into the sensitive side of Mr. Gore. But they added up to an existential question mark rather than a rationale for why he should be president.
In these final urgent days, the elaborate scaffolding that Mr. Gore had constructed to help build his identity has fallen away. Now, he relates only essential biographical facts that serve a direct purpose.
He went to Vietnam, i.e., he did not pull strings to avoid the war. He was a journalist, i.e., he has not spent his entire life in a blue suit in Washington. He has been married for 30 years and has four children, i.e., he is a devoted family man who will spare the nation any Clintonian lapses.
Distancing himself from Mr. Clinton is a subtext of Mr. Gore's speech. He almost never mentions the president's name, but evokes him nonetheless by promising: "I won't always be the most exciting politician, but I will work hard for you every single day, and I will never let you down."
What Mr. Gore has kept in his speech and what he has discarded is a response in part to changing political realities. In the primaries, for example, he would say that Mr. Bradley had not been a good Democrat. (Mr. Gore complained that Mr. Bradley "quit" the Senate after the Republicans took over and considered challenging the incumbent Democratic president, Mr. Clinton, in 1996.) Now that he is trying to win over independents and moderate Republicans, Mr. Gore tells audiences that he himself had a reputation in Congress as someone who worked across party lines. With this in mind, he has toned down the raging populism of early September. While he remains an advocate of abortion rights, he has begun to speak of seeking "common ground" with abortion opponents.
The changing stump speech is also a reflection of what has worked and what has not. Mr. Gore has stopped branding Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal a "risky tax scheme," a phrase his top advisers concluded sounded too cliched and too harsh. He has also given up his promise for "revolutionary change" in education, a concept that left audiences more puzzled than energized. But he has not abandoned his assertion that "we need to make education our No. 1 priority."
His biggest applause line now is one he hit on in late summer. "I will make college affordable" with a tax credit. And his most enduring are these: "It's time to treat teachers like the professionals they are," and "It's time to take the medical decisions away from the bean counters who sit behind computer terminals and play God."
Since "Saturday Night Live" made fun of him after the first debate for using the arcane word "lockbox" to describe where he would put the Social Security trust fund, Mr. Gore has been more self-conscious about the word. "Use whatever word you want," he will say, but he will often fall back on lockbox.
Topics that once loomed large have vanished altogether. He used to talk at length about gun control, pledging to make an issue of Mr. Bush's having signed a bill to allow gun owners to carry concealed weapons to church. But pro-gun commercials in hunter-heavy swing states like Pennsylvania and Michigan have forced him to scale back. Now, as he did in the debates, Mr. Gore emphasizes that he does not want to take firearms away from sportsmen.
In Philadelphia, his only reference to guns was that he wanted schools to be "gun-free" and "violence-free."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore campaigning yesterday in Everett, Wash. His stump speech has become more focused as Election Day approaches. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); ZONING (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); MEDICARE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); SUBURBS (71%); MATHEMATICS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



630 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Political Consultants Thrive in Cash-Rich Politics

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
When Peter Fenn became a media political consultant 20 years ago, he said he was motivated more by a love of politics than a love of money.
But he got both. Mr. Fenn's gold-plated client list now includes Vice President Al Gore, leaders of Congress, heads of state and deep-pocketed interest groups. He just moved into fancy new Washington offices, and he counsels students at nearby George Washington University that while he is "not one of the folks with yachts and houses in six different places," political consulting can pay off intellectually -- and financially. 
 No more so than right now. With fund-raising records being shattered and with airwaves flooded with advertisements from candidates and interest groups, the November election is turning into a bonanza for political consultants. For all the hand-wringing about the high cost of politics, one group has little reason to complain: the pollsters, media buyers, television stations, direct mail houses, Web masters and telemarketers receiving all this money.
"It's coming down in buckets," said Phil Noble, president of Politics OnLine, an Internet firm.
Political consultants are more accustomed to toiling for low wages on shoestring campaigns and supplementing campaign work with other jobs. But this year, some consultants say their revenues have doubled since the last election, and others say consultants on big national campaigns will see million-dollar paychecks. "Winner's bonuses" of $20,000 to $30,000 are being offered to some consultants on top of their regular fees if their candidate wins.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the number of political consultants has tripled in 10 years, according to Political Resources, the trade directory.
On television, political commercials are creating a windfall for broadcasters, according to a report by the brokerage firm Paine Webber, which estimates that a record $1 billion will be spent on political commercials -- $350 million more than the firm estimated just a few months ago. Politics now ranks No. 3 in overall commercials after autos and retailing.
"Whatever office, whatever level of government, candidates are spending serious money on campaigns," said Larry Makinson, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics. "And it winds up going to these consultants. These guys are like systems analysts in a software company -- they are in the right place at the right time, and an awful lot of them will get wealthy in this election."
Technology and money have combined to create opportunities for political consultants that never existed before. For instance, Hank Sheinkopf, a pollster in the last Clinton campaign, has found that even a county commissioner candidate in Indiana can afford to hire him. And there are whole new lines of business. For instance, telemarketers, like Winning Connections, based in Washington, tap into computer data banks to call 500,000 targeted voters in three days. Or people like Michael Connell, manager of the Bush campaign Internet strategy, represent new types of consulting.
Much attention is focused, of course, on the presidential campaign and high-profile races like the one between Representative Rick A. Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton. But the universe of potential clients is much larger. There are 513,200 elected offices in the United States, from senator to sheriff. While it is difficult to determine how many offices are up for grabs this November, Campaigns and Elections, a trade publication, estimates that $14 billion will be spent in the current four-year election cycle by candidates, parties and interest groups.
For the most part, political consultants are generally paid a flat fee by the campaign, although payments to media buyers can vary with the amount of advertisements placed.
"The system is awash in money," said Gary Nordlinger, who heads a media consulting firm he founded 25 years ago. "Political parties are spending more, the soft money is stunning, and it doesn't stop there. You have all these interest groups spending money -- pro-choice, right-to-life, business groups and unions. Television stations are laughing all the way to the bank."
The growth in spending is coming about for many reasons. Campaign contributions are breaking all records, an offshoot of a good economy and a breakdown in campaign finance laws, causing a political inflation to set in. For instance, in 1996, a hot Congressional race might cost around $500,000; by 1998, it jumped to $800,000 or more.
Now, candidates in hot Congressional races are spending $1 million, with soft-dollar spending from parties and interest groups adding $1 million to $2 million more to the per-candidate tab, consultants say. As of last June 30, Congressional candidates raised $653 million, according to the Federal Election Commission. And that number does not include the even greater dollars being spent on Congressional races by the parties and interest groups.
"Why is it different?" said Joseph Napolitan, a political consultant on more than 100 federal campaigns. "It's because people are finding more loopholes in campaign finance laws than you find in a piece of Swiss cheese, and they are just driving through them. The hundreds of millions raised through soft money and by interest groups are providing work for people in my business."
In the presidential race, Mr. Gore and Gov. George W. Bush each have $67.56 million in federal campaign matching funds -- as well as $298 million total in soft dollars from the two parties. In last spring's presidential primaries the top 13 candidates spent a total of $446.4 million.
Then there are state ballot proposals which, in states like California, can create enough business to support a cottage industry of consultants. A total of $150 million was spent on 20 California ballot proposals last March, and the same amount is expected to be spent this November. Big growth areas for consultants are campaigns by various interest groups, like the A.F.L.-C.I.O. From a consultant's perspective, issue work has the advantage of not having a candidate to deal with.
"You don't have candidates yelling at you because their wife said you made them look goofy," Mr. Noble, of Politics OnLine, said. "For consultants, this is low maintenance, high price tag."
New technologies, too, have made campaigns more scientific, more sophisticated and, of course, more costly. Web masters never existed before; now they are a campaign staple. Computer databases enable direct-mail houses and telemarketers to identify voters by sex, voting frequency, income and age. Once polls took several days to tally. Now they are instantaneous, increasing the appetite for more.
"Campaigns are like arms races," said Trevor Potter, a Washington lawyer and former Federal Election commissioner. "You didn't know you needed another battleship until the other country had one."
Nowhere is this more evident than in local and statehouse races.
"What's really changed is the down-ballot stuff," said James Spencer, a director of Winning Directions, a San Francisco direct-mail company that will send out 44 million pieces of campaign mail. "It's driven by competition. Your opponent will use all the professional tools. If you don't use those tools, you won't have a prayer."
In 1998, $1.4 billion was spent on statehouse races, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics, which expects that number to be easily exceeded this year. It costs $75,000 for an average state Senate race -- rising to $600,000 in California or $400,000 in Texas -- and $30,000 for a statehouse race, rising to $200,000 in other states.
Take Iowa, where Jamie Van Fossen, a Republican state legislator is running for re-election. His first campaign in 1994 was a grass-roots effort manned by volunteers addressing mailings from his basement.
This time, he has a budget of $50,000 and a more sophisticated plan: sending out direct mailings to voters picked by a computer. He has scheduled a first round of polls and may follow it up with tracking polls, and he has three commercials set to run on CNBC and CNN.
"The more competitive the race," Mr. Van Fossen said, "the more you need to do."
It is almost a rule of thumb that television consumes about half a candidate's budget -- from the presidency on down. And with media consultants getting a percentage of the costs of every advertisement they place -- 5 percent to 15 percent of the advertisement buy -- rising media costs mean rising consultant's pay.
"There are layers of greed everywhere," said Mr. Makinson, of the Center for Responsive Politics. "Political consultants are putting pressure on candidates to raise money to pay their bills."
But media consultants point the finger at broadcasters who are raising rates as the election draws near. Federal law requires that candidates get lower rates than commercial advertisers, but even this preferential rate is rising in the last weeks of the campaign. Moreover, commercials from the growing number of interest groups are charged top-dollar prices.
Mr. Fenn, the media consultant, said one West Coast interest group that paid $900 for a spot during the 11 p.m. news in September is now being charged $2,000; another that paid $600 for a slot on the Sunday 11 p.m. news last month is being charged $1,800. This has left Mr. Fenn fuming.
"The campaign has become the Mercedes protection program for television stations," he said.
Because of such rising costs, even Mr. Napolitan, the veteran consultant, says he scratches his head -- especially in Congressional races.
"I don't understand why someone would spent $2 million to get elected to a $125,000 a year job," he said. "But they do it all the time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jamie Van Fossen, a Republican state representative in Iowa, is spending more in this year's election campaign than he has in past years. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CONSULTANTS; ELECTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); TELEMARKETING (87%); RANKINGS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); COUNTIES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



631 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
GORE PUTS FOCUS ON SMALLER STATES ONCE SEEN AS SAFE

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash., Oct. 23

 BODY:
At a time when Vice President Al Gore should be scrapping for votes in large swing states like Ohio and Michigan, he is devoting virtually his entire week to campaigning in smaller states that he should be able to ignore -- even his home state, Tennessee.
Mr. Gore's schedule, only two weeks before the Nov. 7 election, is the ultimate reflection of the down-to-the-wire campaign and the way factors as disparate as Mr. Gore's personality and Ralph Nader's candidacy are playing havoc with the electoral map. 
 Mr. Gore, the Democratic nominee, will have campaigned in 11 states by the end of a week that began on Sunday afternoon in New Mexico and winds up on Friday in Pennsylvania. All 11 were won by President Clinton and Mr. Gore in 1992 and 1996, with the Democrats winning most by comfortable margins, often by double digits.
The itinerary, which mirrors his advertising strategy, takes him to five states -- including Oregon and Washington today -- that were won not only by Mr. Clinton but also by Michael S. Dukakis, the Democratic nominee in 1988. Mr. Dukakis carried only 10 states that year.
The campaign swing includes West Virginia, which has voted Republican only twice since 1960. And Mr. Gore will spend part of both Tuesday and Wednesday campaigning in Tennessee, where he has not lost a race in a political career that dates to 1976. His Republican opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, also plans to campaign in Tennessee on Tuesday.
The vice president's struggle to solidify his geographic base stems from several factors, political analysts said. Some are national, like his inability to reassure voters about his credibility and amiability, and the lingering tendency of some voters to associate Mr. Gore with a scandal-ridden White House. Others are more localized, including demographic changes in some states and the strength of Mr. Nader, the Green Party candidate, in places like the Pacific Northwest and Wisconsin.
In times of peace and prosperity, said Thomas E. Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, "one would have expected more of what we saw after Labor Day, when he opened up leads in these states."
"Even though they weren't huge leads," Mr. Mann said, "they seemed substantial enough to allow him to turn his attention and resources elsewhere."
Mr. Gore does seem to enjoy substantial leads in California and New York, and his postconvention travel to those states has largely been limited to fund-raising and television tapings. He has also forced Mr. Bush to compete in Florida, where Mr. Bush's brother is governor.
But while campaigning in closely contested Oregon and Washington in the last two days, Mr. Gore has been forced to reach out to the disaffected Democrats who form the core of Mr. Nader's base. At rallies in Portland, Ore., on Sunday night and here today, he devoted more time than usual to promoting his environmental record, a critical issue for the Green Party.
"I will fight to protect the environment with all my heart and soul," Mr. Gore told supporters here in an open airport hangar. In Portland last night, Mr. Gore vowed to "protect ancient forests" and to "block new roads and timber sales in our roadless forests and ancient forest areas."
Part of his strategy to reclaim Nader supporters rests on raising fears about a Bush presidency.
"My opponent in his state of Texas put a lobbyist for the chemical companies in charge of enforcing the environmental laws there," Mr. Gore said today. "On his watch, Texas has sunk down to 50th out of all 50 in industrial pollution, the worst state for industrial pollution, with the smoggiest city, Houston, and over all the smoggiest state."
Mr. Gore was even more explicit when reporters aboard Air Force Two asked him about Mr. Nader.
"I will stack my environmental record against anyone, including him," he said.
Mr. Gore added that it was not his task to convince Americans that a vote for Mr. Nader was a vote for Mr. Bush. "That may be true," he said, "but my task is to convince them to vote enthusiastically for me and for what I represent."
Mr. Gore's allies in the Northwest say it is vital to win back perhaps half of Mr. Nader's supporters.
"The Nader factor is huge in Oregon," said Representative Darlene Hooley, Democrat of Oregon. "It's at 8 percent and has stayed at 8 percent, and that's why the vice president's spending time here."
Representative Jim McDermott, a Democrat who represents a Seattle district, said Mr. Gore would probably not have to campaign in Washington at this point were it not for Mr. Nader. "Gore has to get his base out in states like this," Mr. McDermott said, "and when you add in factors like Nader it throws in a few points."
But other Democratic leaders said Mr. Gore was still not receiving credit for the prosperity enjoyed during the Clinton administration, and they attributed his troubles to personality and style.
Speaking at Sunday's rally in Portland, that city's Democratic congressman, David Wu, acknowledged that "if I was choosing someone to have a cold beer with or go fishing with, the other fellow might be O.K."
In an interview today, Mr. Wu said that "sometimes the vice president's delivery has gotten in the way of his message."
"The vice president, in a small group, one on one, is incredibly funny, he's charming, he's knowledgeable," Mr. Wu said. "We need to free Al Gore, let Al Gore be Al Gore."
Mr. Gore was certainly in full voice today, feeling energized, aides said, by positive signs in several recent polls. He pledged to continue to speak in detail about issues until the final hours of the campaign.
"Fifteen days is a long time if your objective is to hold the ball and run out the clock," Mr. Gore said. "Fifteen days is a long time if you are trying to hide behind tracking polls and not engage in the issues because the people disagree with you on the issues. That's the dilemma that my opponent faces in the next 15 days."
Part of Mr. Gore's plan is to hold camera-friendly "kitchen table" discussions with citizens who can help him promote his policy proposals. He began today, sitting down for tea in Portland with Heather Howitt, 32, the founder of Oregon Chai, a manufacturer of herbal tea.
When Mr. Gore asked Ms. Howitt to discuss the impact of the economy on her business, she responded on cue: "The economy has been awesome the last eight years."
Mr. Gore replied, "You don't want to let that get away, right?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore at a rally yesterday in Washington, a state won by Democrats in 1988, 1992 and 1996. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ;GREEN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: ;GREEN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO; PENNSYLVANIA; TENNESSEE; MICHIGAN; OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; STATES (US); THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); US LABOR DAY (62%); ETHICS (62%); SCANDALS (62%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); NADER, RALPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (94%); RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); RICK PERRY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



632 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
Albright, in North Korea, Holds Talks With Leader
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright spent more than six hours with Kim Jong Il, discussing strategic differences between the United States and the Communist nation and attending a spectacle staged by 100,000 performers that celebrated the cult of Mr. Kim. More talks are planned for today. A1 

U.S. Facilities on Alert
American troops and diplomats in parts of Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain and Qatar were put on the highest state of alert because of threats of a terrorist attack, a senior administration official said. A18
 
Coalition Negotiations in Israel
Prime Minister Ehud Barak formally opened talks with Ariel Sharon, the rightist opposition leader, on forming a coalition government, as gun battles with Palestinians erupted again on the edge of Jerusalem. A18
 
New Prime Minister of Lebanon
Rafik Hariri, the owner of a billion-dollar construction and engineering company, was appointed prime minister. President Emile Lahoud was forced to choose his old political enemy after Mr. Hariri and his supporters won a landslide victory in parliamentary voting in August. A12
 
Furor over Peruvian's Return
Vladimiro Montesinos, the former intelligence chief who fled Peru a month ago, returned to Lima, plunging the government of President Alberto K. Fujimori into disarray and prompting street clashes between the police and protesters. A3
 
U.S. to Release Chile Files
The C.I.A. director, George J. Tenet, under pressure from the White House, was said to have agreed to release hundreds of documents relating to American covert operations in Chile around the time of the military coup in 1973 that ousted President Salvador Allende Gossens. A3
 
Contested Race in Mexico
The Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has governed Mexico for seven decades, claimed victory in an important governor's race in the state of Tabasco after a disputed weeklong recount. The opposition has said there was fraud. A5
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A20-28
 
As Race Tightens, Gore Takes No State for Granted
Vice President Al Gore is devoting virtually his entire week to campaigning in smaller states that he should be able ignore -- even his home state, Tennessee -- instead of scrapping for votes in large swing states like Ohio and Michigan. With only two weeks to go until the election, Mr. Gore's schedule reflects the down-to-the-wire nature of the campaign and the way that factors as disparate as his personality and Ralph Nader's candidacy are playing havoc with the electoral map. A1
 
Two daily tracking polls show that Vice President Gore has regained some of the ground he recently lost to Gov. George W. Bush. When four of the polls taken since the last debate are averaged together, Mr. Bush's support is 46 percent, Mr. Gore's 44 percent, Patrick J. Buchanan's 1 percent and Mr. Nader's 4 percent. A27
 
Mr. Gore's stump speech has taken on a new urgency, focusing on what he calls "the big choices" -- Social Security, Medicare, health care, education and the economy. His message is that he would use the budget surplus responsibly, with discipline, while his opponent would squander it and drive the nation to ruin. A26
 
Hitting Back on Social Security
Gov. George W. Bush said Vice President Al Gore's Social Security plan would create about $40 trillion in debt by the middle of the century, saddling future generations with a burden and leaving the system of financing the program unfixed. A25
 
Governor Bush's campaign undertook one of the most complex and expensive political operations ever, dispatching 28 Republican governors to campaign in 13 contested states. A25
 
Different Tacks on Political Ads
National and local Democratic officials fanned out to nearly 100 cities in 20 contested states to introduce a video assailing Gov. George W. Bush's record in Texas on matters like air quality, schools, medical care and the poor. The latest Republican campaign advertisements take a much softer tack, with two ads merely reiterating the governor's thoughts and ideas on education. A27
 
Working Families in Majority
The Census Bureau reported that for the first time families in which both parents are working have become the majority (51 percent) even among the most traditional families: married couples with children. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Cancer Bill Pushed by Lazio To Take Effect Quietly
The White House said President Clinton would privately sign a breast cancer bill that Representative Rick A. Lazio helped push through Congress, rather than hold a public ceremony, which would be the usual practice and was something that advocacy groups sought. But Mr. Lazio, vying with Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Senate, would have had to have been invited. Clinton aides said Mrs. Clinton had also been instrumental in the bill's passage. A1
 
Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton battled over health care, an issue that Lazio aides believe is among Mrs. Clinton's most vulnerable. B1
 
President Clinton stumped for Mrs. Clinton in New York City and the Hudson River Valley. B5
 
Seeking Crime-Fighting Tips
Foreign police officials are flocking to New York to study how the city has been able to shake its reputation for out-of-control crime. B1
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Series Shifts to the 7 Train
The Mets tried to control their anger at Roger Clemens and focus on tonight's Game 3 at Shea Stadium against the Yankees, who lead the series, 2-0. Major League Baseball began an inquiry into the Clemens bat-throwing incident on Sunday. D1
 
OBITUARIES C23
 
Frankie Crocker
The longtime New York City radio broadcaster and programming director had pancreatic cancer. C23
 
FASHION B12
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Russia Looks Beyond Mir
Russian news agencies are reporting that officials are working on a plan to destroy the ailing Mir space station safely in February, as Russia's aerospace industry shifts its focus to the International Space Station and other multinational projects. F1
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
AT&T Breaking Itself Up
The board of AT&T, the largest communications company in the nation, approved a plan to split up the company, its most significant overhaul since the 1984 court-supervised breakup of the Bell System. A1
 
Shake-Up at Lucent
The board of Lucent Technologies, a 1996 AT&T spinoff, ousted its chairman and chief executive, Richard A. McGinn, in a move to curb the earnings erosion that threatens to undermine the world's largest maker of telecommunications equipment. Henry Schacht, Lucent's first chairman and chief executive, will assume that job again. C1
 
Lobbying on High-Tech Issues
Big corporations have enlisted influential lawmakers to tuck provisions into spending bills that could reshape the balance of power among phone companies, Internet companies, broadcasters and cable operators. The measures include a relaxing of restrictions that have made it impossible for AT&T to expand further in the cable industry. A1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Actors' Strike Settlement
A nearly six-month strike by actors who appear in television commercials was tentatively resolved. C1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: No time for a Balkan exit; the Coach in Chief; baseball justice.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather B11
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PERU (92%); MEXICO (92%); CHILE (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (76%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PERU (92%); MEXICO (92%); CHILE (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); COUPS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); ENGINEERING (53%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); KIM JONG IL (88%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); EHUD BARAK (54%); EMILE LAHOUD (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



633 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Lazio Focuses on Upstate

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:

This is a new 30-second commercial that the Lazio campaign plans to begin broadcasting.
 
PRODUCER -- The Murphy Pintak Gautier Hudome Agency. 

ON THE SCREEN -- As the commercial opens, Rick A. Lazio is shaking hands with sports fans in Buffalo Bills jerseys. The male announcer declares that Mr. Lazio "has listened to upstate." Mr. Lazio is shown at events and giving a speech. He walks down a shopping street in Skaneateles, near Syracuse, dressed casually in a denim shirt and dark jacket, speaking directly to the camera. The commercial ends with Mr. Lazio seated at a restaurant counter with other diners.
 
THE SCRIPT -- ANNOUNCER: "Rick Lazio. He's listened to upstate and he's ready to fight for us." Mr. Lazio: "I grew up in New York, the son of a shop owner. My background taught me what we need. I've planned, for upstate, to give billions in tax relief to create real jobs, right here."
 
Announcer: "Rick Lazio. He shares our values." Mr. Lazio: "My dad used to say, show me your friends and I'll tell you who you are. Well I've made a lot of friends in Long Island by getting the job done. Now I'd like to earn your friendship too, here in upstate, by getting the job done, for you."

ACCURACY -- Mr. Lazio has proposed a sweeping package of tax cuts, including an elimination of the estate tax and so-called marriage penalty, cuts in the capital gains tax on investments, and a plan to make Social Security tax payments deductible for couples who make less than $106,000 a year. The Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative group, estimated that these cuts would be worth $4.2 billion to New Yorkers. But almost none of the tax cuts have anything to do, directly, with job creation. Like many Republicans, Mr. Lazio argues that putting money into the hands of consumers and investors will ultimately create jobs.

SCORECARD -- This ad is a clear effort to respond to the perception in upstate and Western New York -- fueled by Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign -- that Mr. Lazio does not understand the economic woes of communities north of Westchester County, and does not have a plan to help them. It also makes a subtle dig at Mrs. Clinton's "listening tour," conducted at the beginning of her campaign when she wanted to learn about voters' concerns. Mrs. Clinton has put forth many proposals, ranging from job tax credits to technology training programs to utility deregulation (sort of), which she says will help an area she describes as economically beleaguered. Some economists are dubious about the effectiveness of so-called targeted tax cuts, like Mrs. Clinton's. Whether New Yorkers are persuaded by Mr. Lazio's reassurances, and his promotion of public-private partnerships, may depend on whether they believe in the theory that has been called "trickle-down" economics by its opponents. LESLIE EATON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) BUFFALO BILLS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) BUFFALO BILLS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ESTATE TAX (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (67%); MARRIAGE (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); DEREGULATION (61%); SPORTS FANS (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



634 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: ALBRIGHT GREETED WITH A FANFARE BY NORTH KOREA

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea, Oct. 23

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright plunged into Communist North Korea today, meeting with the nation's mysterious leader, Kim Jong Il, and attending a gargantuan spectacle of about 100,000 performers that celebrated the cult of her host.
In a day of surprising high-stakes diplomacy, Mr. Kim and Dr. Albright, the first senior American official to meet a North Korean leader, spent more than six hours together, discussing strategic differences that divide the two countries but also impressing each other with warm gestures and words. 
 The North Korean leader went out of his way to play the gracious host, moving up by one day his negotiating session with her and then inviting her to the spectacle, where Dr. Albright, who ordinarily champions Western democracy, enthusiastically applauded the 90-minute authoritarian display of choreography and chorus.
The biggest surprise was the invitation to Dr. Albright to attend the spectacle at the sports stadium this evening, where she arrived with Mr. Kim, wearing his standard khaki jacket and pants. She sat next to him on a dais above the performance, and from time to time Mr. Kim would ask the interpreter to point out special features of the event.
As the two arrived, the huge crowd at the stadium rose in unison, and to thunderous music, people fervently stretched their arms toward Mr. Kim as if to a deity.
The dome then filled with fireworks, and an entire side of the arena in front of Mr. Kim and Dr. Albright blinked with changing images, mostly graphics of Communist symbols and triumphs, with tractors, great potato harvests and electrical transformers.
The images were created by about 30,000 people seated side by side holding color-coded cards in front of them and flicking them in highly synchronized movements to achieve the patterns, Korean officials said. The extravaganza was performed two weeks ago in a tribute to the Workers Party of Korea and repeated for the visiting American.
Dr. Albright responded to Mr. Kim's hospitality with a friendly toast tonight, saying as he sat next to her at a dinner table in a government guest house: "America's symbol is the eagle, a bird that soars, and Korea's pride is mountains that scrape the sky. There is no obstacle we cannot overcome if we make the strategic decision to do so together."
In three hours of talks, Dr. Albright got down to serious business with Mr. Kim, discussing "issues of concern to the United States." Her spokesman Richard A. Boucher said the talks had been "substantive and useful."
The length of the first face-to-face session and the fact that a second is scheduled for Tuesday appeared to indicate that both sides were trying to resolve questions about North Korea's missile and nuclear programs so that President Clinton could make a visit here before he leaves office.
The North Koreans agreed to a temporary moratorium on their missile-testing program last year and in return the Clinton administration lifted some economic sanctions. But the White House wants to see how much further the North Koreans will go in shutting down their missile research, development and exports before making a final decision on a presidential trip.
In 1998, the North Koreans test-fired a Taepodong missile, a move that hastened the Clinton administration's decision to move ahead with a national missile defense system and that unsettled Japan and South Korea. Since then, rapid efforts by South Korea to move toward reconciliation with North Korea have defused some of the tensions.
Mr. Boucher declined to be specific on the likelihood of a presidential visit but said that "being able to deal with these issues successfully is the key to a visit of the president." He said that Dr. Albright told him Mr. Kim was "fully engaged" during their discussions.
Dr. Albright gave Mr. Kim a letter from Mr. Clinton that outlined "the expectation of further developing relations" between Washington and North Korea, Mr. Boucher said.
In her toast at the dinner, where bottles of fine French wine were liberally set, Dr. Albright gave a sense of what might be in the presidential letter: "I believe that our meetings during these two days will help us to move further down the road of cooperation," she said.
"Mr. Chairman, the process in which we are now engaged is a process that your father, President Kim Il Sung, helped to begin. It can lead to reconciliation and reunification of the peninsula and to more normal and prosperous relations between your government and others in the region and the world."
Distance between the two countries was "no barrier to closer ties," she added.
Campaigning today in New York, Mr. Clinton said, "We have some hope of resolving our outstanding differences with North Korea and looking forward to the day when they will truly close the last chapter in the aftermath of the Korean War."
Many aspects of events in North Korea today, like the sudden planning of Dr. Albright's trip itself, were filled with unexpected twists and turns, apparently a technique that Mr. Kim likes to use with his guests.
The incongruity of Dr. Albright, who has made democracy a leitmotif, applauding a mass propaganda show dedicated to the 55th anniversary of the Korean Workers Party, was most likely lost on her hosts.
But there were several images in the show that must have unnerved Dr. Albright, including one depicting the launch of a long-range ballistic missile, superimposed on the wall of the stadium in front of her. The missile is the very weapon that Dr. Albright has come to persuade the North Koreans to abandon.
Most of the audience were men in dark suits with red lapel pins showing Mr. Kim and most were members of the Communist Party. Many in the audience looked with a combination of suspicion and awe as a group of Western reporters sat in comfortable green velour chairs in spots usually reserved for special guests.
The precision of dancing and gymnastics, and the din of brass and drum music, combined with choral works, made similar efforts at Socialist entertainment by the former Soviet Union and China pale by comparison. The effort took 10 months of rehearsing, said Foreign Ministry officials accompanying foreign reporters, and obviously involved many grueling hours of training for young children.
A closing scene titled "We will support our powerful nation with rifles" was staged by thousands of men in army uniform who marched in lock step and shouted, "We will safeguard our dear leader!" A less threatening dance called "The leader will always be with us" involved probably more than a thousand children dressed in white and performing gymnastics in exact formations. Pictures of Dr. Albright chatting amiably with Mr. Kim at the spectacle were used on government television news tonight, in a lead item that stressed the prestige of having such an honored guest attend the show.
The North Koreans set the tone of the visit soon after Dr. Albright's arrival by having her meet Marshal Jo Myong Rok, the military official who came to Washington earlier this month, at the mausoleum of Kim Il Sung, the father of the current leader. The secretary was escorted to the bier of Mr. Kim where she stopped briefly to pay her respects, Mr. Boucher said.
Dr. Albright then visited the Rangnang kindergarten, where American food delivered by the United Nations World Food Program provides three meals a day to the children, including cabbage soup and buns for lunch today. Even at the kindergarten, Dr. Albright was treated to a performance by 6-year-olds, who performed synchronized steps and sang to the glory of her host, Mr. Kim.
With the country suffering from famine, a survey by the United Nations two years ago indicated that two-thirds of the population suffered from chronic malnutrition and were stunted in their growth.
The children at the kindergarten appeared well fed, but this was because they were receiving almost their entire nourishment from the United Nations, said the program's director, Douglas Broderick. Further, as urban children, they were better off than those in the countryside, he said.
The children at the center came from the tall apartment blocks nearby where electricity functions about one or two hours a day. Most households have little to cook even when the electricity is on, and meat is a luxury distributed on holidays only, Mr. Broderick added.
Like this evening at the stadium, the main attraction at the kindergarten was the entertainment by rigorously trained children. "Pay attention to me," and "Head up," said a teacher as she rehearsed a group of girls, adorned with pale pink lipstick, ribbons in their hair and yellow-and-pink dresses.
Beyond the staged events for Dr. Albright, the city of Pyongyang went about its normal activities. Reporters were given a little more leeway than most foreigners to go outside the Koryo Hotel and walk a few blocks, apparently a gesture of openness. Interpreters and security officials from the Foreign Ministry tried to accompany reporters at all times, although a noodle bar down a side street near the hotel frequented by foreign aid workers and better-off Koreans seemed open to reporters.
A few buses were on the streets, but the main mode of transportation was walking. About 2,000 privately owned cars have shown up on the streets in the last year, officials said. Most of them are probably bought with remittances from relatives in Japan, they said.
On a street corner in the center of the city, two women -- apparently municipal workers -- were bent over a pile of sand and water mixing it for poor quality concrete to fix a manhole. A string of restaurants on a main street were closed, the windows dirty and only a few tables inside. A kiosk selling sweet potatoes, doing a fairly brisk business -- or at least creating a lot of interest -- was the only sign of retail life.
Usually, because of the dire energy shortage, the city is blanketed in darkness, foreigners who live here said. But streetlights were switched on tonight as were lights in the stairwells of the apartment blocks across the street from the Koryo Hotel, apparently in honor of the American delegation and in a signal that North Korea would survive no matter what.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Soldiers performed and thousands of performers formed images with large cards at a spectacle in Pyongyang yesterday attended by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il.; Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, left, and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright attended an event featuring 100,000 performers. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8); Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il met for several hours in Pyongyang yesterday. (David Guttenfelder/Reuters)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); KIM JONG IL KIM JONG IL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



635 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: REGIONAL AIRPORTS IN GROWTH PHASE

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
At Stewart International Airport near Newburgh, N.Y., they are promoting a new corporate hangar, dreaming about helicopter shuttles to Manhattan and dubbing themselves the "Gateway to the Hudson." At MacArthur Airport in Islip, N.Y., they are hoping to add four gates to a refurbished terminal, buoyed by the recent arrival of Southwest Airlines. At Lehigh Valley International Airport near Allentown, Pa., 10 miles from the New Jersey state line, they are buying 1,500 acres of adjacent land and hoping to extend a runway to the lengths found at Kennedy or Newark International Airports.
At almost every regional airport within a 90-minute drive of New York City, operators are renovating, upgrading or expanding, in what urban planners and aviation groups consider the busiest -- and most contested -- flurry of activity ever at these medium-sized complexes. 
 For supporters, these projects are transforming sleepy outposts into vibrant, congestion-free alternatives to La Guardia, Kennedy and Newark Airports. But with that push has come more resistance, rippling farther and farther into the suburbs, from citizens' groups worried about noise, the environment and sprawling development.
Now, with La Guardia declaring limits on additional peak-hour flights, Westchester County Airport and Teterboro Airport mulling flight curfews and the appetite for air travel showing no signs of abating, the stakes have never been higher. How these battles play out will influence local economies, regional transportation and suburban landscapes for years to come.
"Economic development promoters are recognizing that their local airport has been a diamond in the rough, so this is definitely their moment of opportunity," said Janine Bauer, executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a coalition of environmental and planning groups. "But it is also the next big battleground over sprawl, because the question is, is there a plan for growth, or is it just economic development and more sprawl?"
The same dynamic is playing out at small airports in metropolitan areas from Los Angeles and Chicago to Minneapolis. In all, more than 650 groups are trying to curb or shut down 3,300 airports. At the same time, aviation groups and some members of Congress want a national policy to aggressively build more airports, like the policy that fostered the interstate highway system, said James K. Coyne, a former Pennsylvania representative and president of the National Air Transportation Association, a trade group.
"It's a real yin and yang thing," he said, "where as a society we want the benefit of this transportation, but we don't understand that there's no free lunch."
In the last five years, federal money for all airports has almost doubled, enabling smaller airports to undertake more ambitious development and maintenance projects, said Bill DeGraaff, assistant manager of the airports division in the Federal Aviation Administration's eastern region office.
The number of corporate flights, particularly those originating at regional airports, has doubled over the last six years, Mr. Coyne said. One Chicago company, Indigo Business Air Service, started regular jet charter service between Midway Airport in Chicago and Teterboro Airport in February, plans to start a Westchester-Midway shuttle by November and is considering a link to MacArthur Airport next year.
And while the major New York area airports are also in the midst of construction projects, the congestion is getting much worse, due in part to a new federal law that, in the name of expanding service between New York and smaller cities, has crammed in more takeoff and landing slots.
In August, delays at La Guardia doubled from the same period last year, prompting the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to announce limits in September on additional peak-hour flights. And while the major airports, for the most part, are limited in how much they can expand, suburban airports with ample land and modest flight schedules can grow significantly. Aviation groups and officials say the airports are spread out enough to accommodate the extra air traffic.
Perhaps no airport has generated as much attention as Stewart, in New Windsor, N.Y., 55 miles north of New York City. Its longest runway, 11,818 feet, is second in the state only to Kennedy's longest, at 14,572 feet. But Stewart's potential has not been fulfilled because of aging buildings, high fares and poor connections.
In April, Stewart became the first airport in the country to be privatized under a new federal program, with management changing hands from New York State to National Express Group, a British company. Since then, the new operators have persuaded General Electric to build a new hangar, supported plans for a new highway interchange off Interstate 84, and worked hard to lure a low-cost jet carrier like Southwest.
Last month, one corporate tenant, Rifton Aviation Services, sponsored a lavish event to unveil a new 120,000-square-foot, 46-foot-high corporate hangar. Eventually, Rifton plans to arrange business charters to England and helicopter shuttles to Manhattan and the Woodbury Commons outlet mall in Central Valley, N.Y., said Christian P. Domer, Rifton's president and chief executive.
The expansion has also reinvigorated a longtime citizens' group, the Stewart Park and Recreation Coalition. Concerned that the expansion could adversely affect, or eat into, 7,000 adjacent acres of rugged open space, the group recently persuaded the Sierra Club to cite Stewart as New York State's worst example of sprawling development.
Some opponents fear that increased airport activity could lead to more pollution and traffic, too much commercial development, a loss of open space and an additional burden on water and sewer systems.
"You have a disaster in the making," said John Stouffer, legislative director of the Sierra Club's New York chapter. "They are rapidly turning what was probably 15 years ago a fairly rural community into a choked suburban or semi-urban community."
The Trenton-Mercer Airport is similar to Stewart in that local officials and businesses are banking on revitalization to spur economic growth. Earlier this year, for instance, a former Grumman factory site was converted into an 80,000-square-foot hangar. With corporate flights increasing by double-digit percentages annually, the airport also decided to accommodate general aviation flights 24 hours a day.
Now, the airport, which until a few years ago was called Mercer County Airport, is building a hangar for Merck, and is about to award a contract for one for Pfizer, said Justin P. Edwards, the airport manager. Both pharmaceutical giants have operations in New Jersey. Also, officials are assessing the environmental feasibility of a $18 million terminal that may include a movie theater, restaurants and stores.
But not if Heidi Kahme can help it. A board member of People Limiting Airport Noise and Expansion, or Plane, which formed about a year ago, Ms. Kahme has been working with a Bucks County, Pa., citizens' group to call for more thorough environmental assessments and a halt to any expansion plans in an area that has sprouted many new subdivisions.
"You're completely changing the character of the airport," she said.
Her adversary is Steven E. Some, a Trenton lobbyist who is the president of People Restoring Opportunity, a coalition of business and labor groups that formed in June. To him, the expansion is crucial to wooing Southwest, which has told him of an "intense desire" to land in Trenton -- if the airport is modernized.
He said a recent poll taken by his group found that 70 percent of local residents favored expansion. "If it's not in my backyard but they want the services, what do you do?" he said. 'Newark is impossible. La Guardia is too far. Kennedy is another country. Do we fold our arms and do nothing? The answer is no."
At MacArthur Airport, which is owned by the town of Islip, the issue is not the prospect of a rejuvenated airport, but the reality of one.
Since the arrival of Southwest Airlines last year, the number of passengers has doubled to two million a year, other airlines have beefed up service and ticket prices have dropped precipitously. The airport completed a $14 million face-lift earlier this year, and would like to add more terminal gates and flights.
But the progress, critics say, has come at a high price, epitomized by pollution and the sound of airplanes rattling chandeliers. So three years ago, some residents founded the Citizens for the Enforcement of MacArthur Airport Control; this year the group staged an anti-airport rally that drew 250 people.
It is basically the same story with the Lehigh Valley airport near Allentown -- roughly an 80-minute drive from Newark -- which wants to tap into the fast-growing, corporation-rich central New Jersey market.
The airport recently completed a land acquisition program for 1,500 acres, and hopes to extend its runway to 10,000 feet. Citizens for a Safe and Quiet Airport was founded in June. Last month, supervisors in one town passed regulations to limit noise and restrict the expansion.
Even smaller airports without commercial service, like Republic Airport in Farmingdale, N.Y., the Igor I. Sikorsky Memorial Airport outside Bridgeport, Conn., Morristown Municipal Airport in Hanover, N.J., and Solberg Airport in Hunterdon County, N.J., find themselves at odds with some residents because of proposed expansions. To an extent, these airports, as well as some others, are now experiencing what some of the busy inner-ring airports, like Teterboro and Westchester County, have wrestled with for years.
At Teterboro, only seven miles from New York City in Bergen County, N.J., aircraft noise has been a big issue. In 1987, the airport established a noise-monitoring system, and promised to ban aircraft that exceeded 90 decibels. Since then, Teterboro has banned more than 60 planes, said Phil Engle, the airport manager.
But to residents, that is not enough. A few weeks ago, the Carlstadt Borough Council passed a resolution to initiate a class-action lawsuit to force the Port Authority and the federal government to reduce airplane noise.
Now, with corporate travel consisting of 90 percent of Teterboro's operations, compared with less than half 10 years ago, the airport is repaving a runway and planning for additional taxiway room to accommodate bigger but quieter jets like Falcons and Gulfstreams, which are quickly replacing noisy turbo-propeller planes throughout the industry. But to residents, such plans sound like a recipe for bigger ambitions.
Westchester County Airport, meanwhile, has long been in a delicate position because of its proximity to the Kensico Reservoir, a conduit for 90 percent of New York City's drinking water, and the clout of environmentalists and local officials.
The county executive, Andrew J. Spano, would prefer to keep the airport as a boutique operation, snuffing out plans to expand a business lounge and blocking the construction of a new hangar by General Electric (which went to Stewart).
Now there is a dispute with Atlantic Southeast Airlines, a Delta subsidiary, over the airline's new 5:59 a.m. flight from Westchester to Atlanta, which residents have complained is too early. Two weeks ago, a bipartisan group of congressmen introduced legislation that would impose a mandatory curfew. And because the airport is busy enough as it is, Mr. Spano said that he would not mind if some passengers or flights opted for Stewart or other satellite airports instead.
Arline L. Bronzaft, chairwoman of a new group concerned about airport noise, the Aircraft Noise Abatement Group of New York and New Jersey,said the competing pressures for adding air service and maintaining a suburban or semirural quality of life would be hard to reconcile.
"We have the need for people who want to get away as quickly as they can, and then we have the people on the ground saying, 'We're living here.' Something is going to have to be very Solomon-like in coming out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of New York: Almost all regional airports near New York City are upgrading or expanding, but some groups worry about the impact of that growth. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CHICAGO (ILL); MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ENVIRONMENT; NOISE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); AIRPORTS AIRPORTS (99%); AIR SERVICE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CITIES (74%); CURFEW (73%); SUBURBS (72%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



636 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Technology-Rich Morris County Shrugging Off Mergers

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Oct. 23

 BODY:
In the last year or so, three companies based in Morris County have announced they were merging with bigger companies and closing at least part of their operations here. Now it is happening again.
The General Electric Company agreed Sunday to acquire Honeywell International, the diversified manufacturer that is based here. As part of the agreement, Honeywell will close its 550-employee headquarters here, although it will keep 1,750 workers in various businesses and laboratories here in place for now. 
 Honeywell joins Warner-Lambert, Schering-Plough and GPU Utility, all of which have announced mergers with other companies and expect to close their headquarters here. This is in addition to last November's merger of Mobil Oil with the Exxon Corporation, which had 1,000 employees in its engineering division in Florham Park in Morris County, most of whom were relocated to Fairfax, Va.
It is enough to make a region feel a bit rejected.
But not Morris County. Officials with the county and the area's economic development office do not want to play down the potential loss of 550 Honeywell jobs, but they say that the acquisition is part of a larger economic sorting out and that Morris County itself, with its large technology and manufacturing base, will not be hurt in the long run.
The companies are not closing down, they point out, but merely reorganizing, sometimes leaving hundreds of jobs with the new, bigger company.
The office space and manufacturing sites that some of the companies are leaving behind are quickly filled by other companies, they say, and employees of the merged companies have either relocated or found new jobs in the area.
It is not, they insist, a sign of a downturn in Morris County's healthy economy, where corporate campuses have replaced the farms that used to dot this hilly, lush area about an hour's drive west of New York City. The county's unemployment rate is less than 3 percent, lower than the state and national averages. It is home to 53 Fortune 500 companies, including Lucent Technologies and AT&T.
"I just think these corporations are trying to consolidate to better their positions in the market," said Douglas Cabana, the Morris County freeholder director. "A downturn would be companies losing profits and layoffs."
G.E., the network television and aircraft engine manufacturing giant based in Fairfield, Conn., expects to save money through the merger. But officials of G.E., which has 340,000 employees, said they did not yet know how many workers of its combined work force -- Honeywell has 120,000 employees -- might lose their jobs.
"If people are laid off, the company will help them in every way they can to find new employment," said Tom Crane, a spokesman for Honeywell.
"But clearly this is a good job market, particularly for highly skilled workers here."
Christopher Marra, executive director of the Morris Area Development Group, a private-public partnership for economic development, said the county had 230,000 private-sector jobs. The county has the second-highest inventory of office space and industrial space in New Jersey, with 23 million square feet, after Bergen County.
"There has been a lot of activity in the sense of mergers and acquisitions in the last year, more than at any time since I came here in 1993-94," Mr. Marra said. "But they're not fleeing the area."
Mr. Marra said there had been no increase in the unemployment rate in the county in the last year, in spite of the recent mergers, an indication that workers at the newly merged companies who lived in the county either relocated or found jobs at the area's other companies.
And space and land left behind by companies consolidating their operations are quickly gobbled up by others, he said.
For example, when Exxon and Mobil merged in November, the new company declared as surplus a 473-acre complex in Florham Park that used to house Exxon's engineering division.
This month, the Rockefeller Group Development Corporation of Manhattan agreed to buy the parcel, along Route 24 and Park Avenue, which it plans to develop into a $400 million office park with 2.2 million square feet of space.
Mr. Cabana said Morris County would survive.
"We all understand that corporate America is going through a restructuring," he said.
"Morris County has been fortunate for many years to be home to so many corporations because they understand the quality of life here is good and everybody seems to want to be here. That isn't going to change."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about companies that have moved corporate headquarters out of Morris County, N.J., misstated the reason Schering-Plough pharmaceuticals moved to Kenilworth, in Union County. The company, which still has an office in Morris County, moved to a new, larger building in Kenilworth to improve corporate communications, a spokeswoman said. Schering-Plough did not merge with another company.


GRAPHIC: Map of Morris County, New Jersey: The unemployment rate in Morris County is less than 3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); XOM (NYSE) (83%); ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (83%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONEYWELL INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: MORRIS COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LAYOFFS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ENGINEERING (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA CHRISTOPHER MARRA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000



637 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 35; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: ENTERTAINMENT;
A Fourth for Bridge or a Cozy Chat in an All-Night Bingo Hall

BYLINE: By HILARY APPELMAN; Hillary Appelman writes frequently about e-commerce and is an avid game player.

 BODY:
I HAVE some new friends. Well, not friends exactly. I wouldn't recognize them if we bumped into each other, and I don't even know their real names. But they are always there when I need them -- to play games.
There's Sooner, a student in Oklahoma who plays bingo when she should be writing papers, and Betsiew, a military wife in Germany whose daughter was hurt on the seesaw recently. There's Tdreed, who whipped me in Jeopardy, and Maacret and McWhite17, friendly and forgiving Spades opponents. 
 I used to dismiss computer games as shoot'em-up arcade fare or fantasy worlds populated by evil aliens and exploding spaceships. But it turns out there is a world of people online who are playing old-fashioned family games like checkers, bridge and backgammon. Whole communities have sprung up around these virtual card parlors and bingo halls, where you can find a game -- and a conversation -- 24 hours a day.
There are dozens of sites where game players can hook up with one another to play everything from chess to Jeopardy.
"Many people would tell you the reason they don't play as much in the real world is the pace of life," said Garth Choutreau, a spokesman for the Pogo.com game site. "It's just so hard to get four people around the kitchen table to play bridge, for example. At any given time on Pogo there are at least 1,000 people playing bridge."
More than 13 million people -- a whopping 25 percent of United States homes that are online -- play games on the Web at least once a month, said Jeremy Schwartz, a senior analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Mass. And unlike traditional computer games, which are played mostly by young men, leisure games draw women and men in about equal numbers across a broad range of age groups. The number of players is expected to swell as new technologies like broadband and cellular phones and other hand-held devices with Internet access allow people to get online more easily and stay on longer.
In terms of "stickiness," or how long people stay at a Web site, games are some of the most popular online destinations. The average visitor to Bingo.com spent eight and a half hours at the site during August, according to Nielsen/Net Ratings. The average visitor to eBay, by contrast, spent less than two hours.
In terms of numbers, the most popular game sites are lottery and sweepstakes sites, like Speedyclick.com and Freelotto .com, which give away cash or prizes. In its first operating year, the sweepstakes portal site iWon, where users earn sweepstakes entries by doing almost anything -- from clicking on an advertisement to checking the weather -- became one of the 10 most popular sites on the Web over all, with close to two million visitors a day.
Online game sites took in more than $100 million in advertising and subscription fees in 1999 and are expected to have revenue of more than $200 million this year, according to Jupiter Communications, the Internet research firm in New York. Jupiter projects that amount will grow to almost $770 million annually by 2003.
Advertising is still the top moneymaker in the games sector, but big off-line game makers are getting into the act with multilayered sites like Electronic Arts Inc.'s www.ea.com, which try to entice users to play pay-per-game or subscription-based games and buy console games, said Billy Pidgeon, an analyst at Jupiter. Internet portals are also acquiring game sites in an effort to attract and hold onto large audiences. Lycos bought Gamesville.com last fall and Excite@Home snapped up Pogo.com in August. The business model for a successful games site is still evolving, Mr. Pidgeon said, but he predicted it would grow harder for independent sites to survive unless they found a niche.
For my first venture into online game-playing, I headed for bingo. I had not played since grade school, but I had fond memories of those little boards and colored markers. Bingo was unthreatening; no one else had to know how well or badly I was playing. Bingo also lends itself to chat, because you don't have to think about your next move.
After signing in at Pogo.com's bingo site, I chose to play with other 30-somethings. (Pogo also has rooms with themes like movies, music and politics, as well as rooms for "uncensored chat.") Each player receives three boards at once; numbers appear at the top of the screen and are called out loud. Winners receive tickets for a $50 prize drawing.
A stream of chat runs down one side of the screen next to the game. Most of it is players greeting each other -- "Hi River," "Hi Lori," "Hi Room," and cheering one another on -- "Go Mindy," "Go Room."
At the start of each game, the chat box fills with choruses of "gle" (good luck everyone) and "gla" (good luck all). Later in the game, players post cryptic messages like "5tg" (five numbers to go) and "4tgX2" (four numbers on two boards). When someone wins, everyone cheers "wtg" (way to go).
Occasionally, a glimpse of someone's real life pokes through.
"Brb" (be right back), Spiritpa said during one game. "Have to take clothes out of dryer."
From the relatively staid Pogo site I headed to Bingo.com, where the graphics are purple and orange, and I was bombarded with pop-up ads and promotions for events like lunch-hour tournaments and tarot readings. Bingo .com goes out of its way to make new players feel welcome -- there is a guide to chat lingo and suggested chat topics for breaking the ice. (Reflecting the site's 67 to 33 female-to-male ratio, one recent topic was "Is your husband a football couch potato?") At Bingo.com's Cupid area, decorated with hot pink and purple hearts, someone asked, "Anyone from Indiana?" and suddenly everyone was talking -- "Maine," "Pa," "NJ," "Ky here," "Ill here." Dotty6 was from Georgia and, small world, Wilma 37 was going to Georgia on vacation.
Game chat tends to be superficial, to put it mildly. Sometimes an hour can pass with nothing more personal than a "wtg." And socializing online has its own peculiar hazards, including game sites' tendency to freeze at inopportune moments.
But then there was the game where worried players tried to figure out how to contact a regular who had not shown up in several days. And the time Betsiew's 4-year-old daughter was hurt on the seesaw and all of us at her bingo table spent the next hour debating whether she should go to the doctor. (She did, finally.) I do not know Betsiew's real name, but I have shared a little piece of her life, and we both play games. Friendships have been built on less.
Sara Schwab of West Coxsackie, N.Y., said she is at the same place every morning on Bingo.com, where her screen name is Sarasue351, and sees the same people logged on. "I say, 'gm friends,' and they say 'Good morning Sara,' 'Good morning Sara,' 'Good morning Sara,' " she said. A player in Canada e-mailed her a cake recipe, and Mrs. Schwab has corresponded with her ever since.
Not all game sites are as conducive to community-building, but they still can be a lot of fun. At Sony Online Entertainment's site, www.station.sony.com, I tried out the multiplayer test version of Jeopardy.
UNLIKE bingo, which had ads for decidedly adult-looking casino sites, Jeopardy featured ads for table saws from Sears, Lands' End and J. C. Penney. It took a few minutes for the game to load, and then I was joined by two other players, Tdreed and Dazed2000, and we were off.
Tdreed jumped out to a 2,000-point lead, cleaning up in the football category. When the category changed to literary quotes, I made my move, correctly identifying Anne Tyler as the author of "Breathing Lessons." (Online Jeopardy is multiple choice, which makes it much easier than the TV version.) In the second round I racked up 1,000 points by correctly stating the number of electrons in helium (two) and defining metal fatigue, then lost it all in Final Jeopardy by failing to name Radio City Music Hall as the theater where Martha Graham and the Flying Wallendas both played on opening night.
Jeopardy does not have a chat screen, but you can send short messages that show up over your icon's head. Given the pace of the game, there isn't really time for more.
Hasbro's Games.com is scheduled to go online in December with multiplayer versions of Monopoly, Scrabble, Risk, Boggle, Battleship and Clue. Laura Tomasetti, a spokeswoman, said the site would offer a 10-minute version of Monopoly.
My husband, son and I recently spent a week in the Adirondacks in a cabin with no telephone. We were there with my parents and my brother's family -- game aficionados all -- and a stack of board games from home. But the children stayed up late and the adults were tired; the week went by and the game boxes stayed unopened.
Vacation is over now; the phone is connected. It's time to play some games.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara Schwab of West Coxsackie, N.Y., working Bingo.com. (Michael Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (65%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (72%); OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES BOARD GAMES (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); CARD GAMES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); SWEEPSTAKES (85%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (74%); BROADBAND (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: APPELMAN, HILARY

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



638 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 33; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: A Glass of Wine Helps Show What Buyers Want

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the Internet began evolving into a mass medium in 1995, it struck fear into the hearts of retailers, who worried that enabling consumers to quickly and easily compare prices would force ever thinner profit margins. Then their businesses, like the cursed fat lawyer in Stephen King's 1994 novel "Thinner," would be reduced to skin and bones.
Paying the lowest price possible might seem like a shopper's dream, but ultimately consumers would lose because there would be too little profit to sustain a vibrant market, resulting in a scarcity of goods. 
 But shoppers, it turned out, do not always pay the lowest price, and not because they are unaware of it, according to research by several professors who have studied Internet pricing. The research suggested that retailers could expand their businesses and keep healthy profit margins from Internet sales if they understand what consumers want.
"Price is not the only factor in making a purchase," said Erick Brynjolfsson, an associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
Many retailers discovered last holiday season that factors other than price could influence buying decisions, like convenience, quality and reliability. As the holiday neared and as carriers like the Postal Service and United Parcel Service became swamped with packages, many customers made buying decisions based solely on delivery needs.
But there is a difference between learning from a knock on the head and learning from studies that are more controlled and better designed. As a result, Professor Brynjolfsson's work is part of a growing field of Internet business research conducted by economists like himself, as well as consumer behavior specialists and psychologists. Research at M.I.T. has included what makes consumers trust, or distrust, commercial Web sites; how to design sites to make them easier to navigate; and how to convert more visitors into buyers by analyzing data on how people click through a site.
Other institutions and universities have been doing similar work. Research at the I.B.M. Institute for Advanced Commerce has included an examination of Web merchandising, an analysis of online advertising, a look at the effectiveness of online stores and a study of business negotiations on the Internet.
"We are now well past the point where you trust your gut on the Internet," Professor Brynjolfsson said. "Companies want solid research."
M.I.T.'s Center for eBusiness has 30 corporate sponsors, who are trying to understand how the Internet affects retailing and wholesaling. Many of the papers that M.I.T. researchers have written can be viewed at ebusiness.mit.edu.
In a paper that asked whether the Internet was to shopping what the Colt .45 revolver supposedly was to Dodge City, Kan. -- the great equalizer -- Professor Brynjolfsson and others found that when an identical product was offered, consumers would often shun the lowest price vendor, even when a list of vendors was ranked with the lowest prices on top.
RESEARCHERS studied book sales with the help of Deal time.com, a shopping site that scoured online booksellers to find every vendor and then rank them by price for a book from cheapest to most expensive.
"We gathered more than a million price observations," Professor Brynjolfsson said, "and we found that people often did not click on the lowest price, even when the lowest price was the first one listed."
Instead, consumers weighed brand recognition as well as concerns about whether an order would be filled promptly and accurately, and they showed a loyalty to vendors with whom they did business.
Analysis showed "that price was important, and having lowest price, all else being equal, increased odds that consumers would pick you," Professor Brynjolfsson said. "But we also found that advertising levels, which create awareness of the vendor, were a major factor. Amazon.com received 400 percent as many clicks as you would expect based solely on price."
The research found that quality issues, like whether orders would be filled quickly and accurately, weighed heavily on consumers. So did shopping habits. Consumers went with higher priced vendors if they had bought from them before or had an online account with them.
Prof. Dan Ariely, who studies consumer decision-making at M.I.T., said that "the Internet has this amazing power to convey information about quality and by giving good detailed information about what you are selling and how you are selling it." Merchants can not only charge higher prices, but they can also build customer loyalty.
Prof. John G. Lynch Jr. of the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, and Professor Ariely, who was a graduate student there in 1998, sold wine during that time as an experiment to determine how consumers reacted to low prices, lots of information and other factors.
The professors said they decided to use wine in the test because most people lacked the knowledge to evaluate subtle differences in bouquet, flavor and body. They also did not know which wines go with which foods or in certain social settings. This lack of knowledge, Professor Ariely said, can make differences with satisfaction or regret over a purchase.
A wine expert filled the sites with quality information on wines, which were then offered for sale to graduate students and faculty at Fuqua.
Eight sites were created, some emphasizing price, others emphasizing information to help select a wine. There were different levels of ease in comparing sites, some wiping out tentative purchases when a customer switched between sites, while others retained the basket of prospective purchase until the customer returned to either buy the wines or cancel the order. The professors also held wine tastings to gather more information. (The professors did not actually sell the wine but acted as a marketing agent for a licensed seller to comply with alcohol control laws.)
"We found with wine that if you give good information, consumers become less price sensitive," Professor Ariely said. "They like the wine that they buy more, and they stay longer with the service that sold it to them."
Like Professor Brynjolfsson, the Fuqua researchers found that information is most important in swaying consumers who are buying subtle or exotic products. When people shop for a product they know is widely available -- Levi blue jeans, for example -- price trumps everything.
But that is not true of all products, even if carefully presented and accompanied by thorough information. "Before you buy a new chair for your office," said Professor Ariely, "you are still going to want to sit in it."
Professor Lynch said the wine project and other research showed that Internet merchants should in some cases adopt the same collaborative spirit with competitors as bricks and mortar businesses do. He cited the example of a hotel that has run out of rooms when someone drives up, or the hardware store that lacks equipment a customer wants.
Smart hoteliers and hardware store owners direct the customer to the competitor who has what the customer wants, expecting to build loyalty with the customer and make future sales.
In online retailing, Professor Lynch said, such collaboration works when sellers are offering products that consumers perceive are different, regardless of whether the differences are only illusory.
"Online shopping creates incentives for sellers to have more private labels," Professor Lynch said, "more exclusives and more branded variance, in which a manufacturer makes slightly different products with slightly different model numbers, but the differences are enough that consumers can't readily tell that they are essentially the same."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prof. Dan Ariely, now at M.I.T., sold wine to see buyers' reactions to low prices and other factors. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); KANSAS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); KANSAS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET RETAILERS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); POSTAL SERVICE (66%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (65%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY STEPHEN KING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



639 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 1; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 2836 words

HEADLINE: A Health Revolution, in Baby Steps

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

DATELINE: WORCESTER, Mass.

 BODY:
IN many ways, Dr. Anne Seger could not be happier. From her home or office, she can key any of her patients into her computer and instantly spy almost every piece of information she needs -- results from a blood test and X-rays, the operating room's report from recent surgery and the patient's next appointment.
Nurses and doctors on the labor and delivery floor of her hospital, UMass Memorial, can monitor patients' labor from their computer screens. Doctors can plug drug orders into a computer program that will check the drug against a patient's other medications and immediately warn of possible dangers or unexpected interactions. And billing is electronic. 
 All this is light-years from where Dr. Seger and her hospital were just five years ago. But it is also far, far from where she and her colleagues in information technology at the hospital want to be. "We are not there yet," said Dr. Seger, an internist who is the medical director of system integration. Neither are most other hospitals.
There are perhaps few industries that have more to gain from the Internet revolution than medicine. Rapid advancements in biotechnology and medical research, increasingly curious patients who shop the Web for medical information and pressures from managed care companies to contain costs and speed treatments are just the central components driving, in the industry patois, "e-health."
What is more, medicine's most dirty open secret -- the glut of errors that occur in hospitals -- has become a high-profile and politicized issue, and many proponents of information-sharing technologies think that their products can help prevent tragic bedside errors.
"Hospitals are real laggards" when it comes to the Internet, said Dr. Russell Ricci, the general manager of global health care industry at I.B.M. "What e-health has to be used for is to transform the whole process of delivering care. But unfortunately, what most hospitals are doing is trying to go from bricks to clicks, but the system is still based on bricks, which is not going to get us there."
Computer types are even more dismayed when they look elsewhere in the notoriously inefficient health care system, particularly at the task of persuading the nation's harried, technology-averse doctors to wire their practices. Stocks of companies like WebMD and Medscape soared last winter, then dropped even faster when the gap between medical and Silicon Valley perspectives became apparent.
In the case of hospitals, the reasons for the delays are as complex as they are ubiquitous. The first, of course, is money. Hospitals, especially academic medical centers, which enjoyed years of unfettered spending until managed care reared its head a decade ago, are having a difficult time adjusting to the new lean years in medicine.
Cuts by the government in Medicare and Medicaid spending, combined with constantly declining reimbursements from managed care companies and skyrocketing drug costs, have made it difficult for medical centers to find the budget to expand their information systems as much as they would have liked. Mergers -- a staple activity for major medical centers over the last few years -- have further complicated matters. Hospitals love technology when it means complicated new machines to help diagnose and treat diseases, but they are not always attracted to software that calls for changes in age-old routines.
As a result, many centers entered the 21st century with the finest surgical talent and equipment in the world, but patients were still giving their social security number to seven different people, who were all scribbling it on paper.
And as hospitals attempt to evolve, they are also confronting new federal regulations on the privacy of medical information, which presents new problems in the electronic world: how can you be in the business of sharing information when, in some cases, that sharing might be illegal?
Keeping the finest technology minds on staff is also difficult when companies with far deeper pockets are within a few miles of every hospital's front door. UMass loses about four people a month to other companies.
In addition, those who make and sell e-health products often contribute to the problem, hospital technology executives argue. The dot-com world is unstable, with constant mergers threatening to render many costly systems obsolete. Systems quickly become outdated and are too costly to replace, and many of the most highly promoted items are not as practical as their companies proclaim. "It really is easy to be seduced by the dot-com of what is coming and what may be," Dr. Seger said.
UNTIL recently, dot-coms enamored of their own software were reluctant to tweak products in ways that doctors wanted. "It used to be that vendors had the attitude, 'If we don't make it, you don't need it,' " Dr. Seger said. "They have gotten a lot better about that, but it has taken time."
Some centers saw the revolution coming years ago and built their own systems, literally at home. The most highly recognized is Intermountain Health Care, which runs 22 hospitals in Idaho, Utah and Wyoming. Intermountain has been building its systems internally since the 1960's, long before it could buy the technology in the marketplace. Its highlights include computerized drug monitoring, electronic bedside charts and a robotic pharmacy delivery system, as well as a system in which doctors can enter orders for patient care into a hand-held computer. Right now, these features are available only at Intermountain's flagship LDS Hospital in Salt Lake City, but they are being peppered throughout the system. Rural hospitals already have the capacity to send high-quality images and information to specialists at LDS for consultations, something most big medical centers around the nation lack.
"We feel that real-time information on patients is absolutely critical," said Jess Gomez, a spokesman for LDS Hospital.
Fine hospitals in the Boston region are like fast-food stands at the mall -- abundant and fiercely competitive. In terms of technology, UMass Memorial -- the product of a 1998 merger between UMass and Memorial Health Care -- is considered one of the more advanced centers among those connected to a medical school. It serves a large and diverse population that includes a heavy dose of patients in Medicare or Medicaid.
The hospital does not have the fat budget of Massachusetts General in Boston, the envy of Dr. Seger and others in the area. But UMass has invested $40 million in infrastructure over the last five years and expanded its information technology staff to 140 from 20. Many of those people had worked delivering care, Dr. Seger said.
The center has particularly benefited from the new ability to integrate vast amounts of patient information into a single chart stored online. With X-rays and blood tests and other data centralized, decisions can be made more quickly and confidently.
Having an entire patient record also allows doctors to walk families through their loved one's entire medical history after a death, right there on one screen, to help them make sense of it all.
Drugs can now be ordered directly from the pharmacy without going through a clerk. Ditto for other supplies. All doctors have access to an online library, so research that once took librarians two days to collect can be downloaded much faster. Outside the two campuses, the hospital's 120 off-site doctors are also connected to the system, as is the center's new ambulatory surgical center.
When patients are admitted to the hospital, they are electronically checked for their insurance type, doctor and history with the center and assigned a bed in one fell swoop. Bills are submitted and paid electronically, and when they are not, insurance companies are nudged electronically, as well. The effect of such efficiencies cannot yet be quantified, but the center expects to save several million dollars a year, much of that coming from a more expedient and accurate payment process.
These transactions take place almost exclusively on an intranet, a private network that uses Internet technology but is not part of the Web. (The center does not have its own public Web site.) The center does not put any patient information online and will not until the privacy issues become clearer, said Richard F. Bretagne, a vice president and chief information officer at UMass.
"There are a lot more opportunities to share information going forward," he said, adding that the hospital does share information with the state's insurance companies and other health care providers. "The caveat is that we need the privacy and confidentiality regulations to become clearer and for the encryption details to become clearer," he said.
"That is happening pretty quickly," Mr. Bretagne said. The first thing that will be over the Internet will be billing information, he noted.
More important than any cool gadget or groovy program, Dr. Seger said, was simply preparing the hospital's technological guts for business in the new century. "Our infrastructure is better than most," she said. "Having guys with their behinds hanging out of the ceiling with a whole bunch of wires is not what people in this business want to talk about. It isn't sexy. But it is very important, and we think we are in good shape."
It has not been easy.
One of the biggest challenges by far, Dr. Seger and others at the center said, was not strictly technical. Hospital mergers tend to result in huge cultural and political conflicts -- which hospital's head of cardiology will get the job at the merged center? Who gets to sit on the new board? When UMass and Memorial joined, each center wanted to keep its own computer system and way of delivering care. In the end, the decision was made to meld the two into a new system, at a cost of $14 million, which left hard feelings on both sides.
"There were huge turf battles," Dr. Seger said. "Computer systems represent a culture." But now the two centers with two campuses could communicate. Technology purchasing became centralized, so departments could no longer buy renegade software that was incompatible with the network.
Then there were systems that needed tweaking before they were brought online. Why did a certain procedure, for instance, take 13 steps when to an outside observer it could be done in three? Often, the answer was "just because." "This was a way of pulling back the rug and looking at how you do business," Dr. Seger said. "We don't want to automate bad systems."
And at times doctors have resisted change. Some still refuse to put a patient's identification number into the digital dictation system that goes to patient records. They punch in a series of 9's instead, which requires it to be corrected on paper. And even though $60,000 a year has been saved by putting lab reports online, some doctors still protest. Most doctors love the system, Dr. Seger said. "But there is a bell-shaped curve. Some doctors still think that faxes are a Communist plot."
Instability among makers of all things technical has also presented problems. For instance, the center does lab work for the state's prisons and bought a system that connected the two. The company that provided that technology, however, recently went bankrupt -- a story line that has played out with other systems at the hospital. Vendors of e-gadgets often promise more than they can deliver and do not listen to feedback from doctors. "Frankly, many are more hype than reality," Mr. Bretagne said.
FROM one such vendor's point of view, doctors are not easy customers, although he can see their point. "For the most part, physicians are fairly risk-averse, and there has been a slow adoption time," said Dr. David Grayzel, the chief executive of Catalyst Medical Solutions, which makes a note-writing system for doctors that translates procedures into billing language and makes the notes ready for review in an academic setting. "Part of why I left academic medicine to go into this was because many products that are developed don't take into consideration physician work flow. You really have to understand how the doctors work on the front line."
On the front line at UMass, old tools are still in far too much use, administrators acknowledge.
A patient's electronic medical record is still not totally complete -- M.R.I.'s, for instance, do not yet mesh with the system, and the hospital is still trying to work with a vendor to make that happen. Bone density tests are not online, nor are electrocardiograms. And as useful as the fetal monitoring system is, the center is waiting for one that allows doctors to monitor a patient's progress from home or an office miles away. In the mundane department, there is no real way to rectify the problem of two patients with the same name. Just the other day, a CAT scan went into the wrong patient's electronic chart. The department that handles the formal, legal, full patient records still keeps them on paper, putting that department in another century.
Some hospitals are sending images like chest X-rays over the computer, but not UMass -- the hospital's network does not have enough capacity for high-speed transmission. A system that projects diagnostic-quality images has proved too expensive for any place but the emergency room and intensive care unit, even though it would hugely benefit doctors if it were hospitalwide.
And the center is a long way from a system in which a doctor puts in orders from a hand-held device like a Palm. Such systems are thought to be the most effective way to flag errors in drug dosage, which is a chief cause of medical mistakes. These systems, however, are used by centers with a lot of money.
"The Institute of Medicine study says that we kill 100,000 people a year with hospital errors," said Dr. Ricci of I.B.M. "Yet most of the hospitals still do not have an electronic point-of-care order-entry system. With it, that number of errors would never happen. But instead of investing in that, many hospitals are out building new buildings or buying new M.R.I.'s."
Executives at UMass say they are not spending unwisely. They simply have no more money, they argue. The hospital no longer receives state financing under the merger. "We lose money on every admission," said Dr. Seger, who figures the hospital will not be able to buy new products this year, upgrading what they have instead. It cannot afford Windows 2000.
On Mr. Bretagne's wish list is a system that would collect billing information into a marketing analysis and forecasting system; more online clinical information that can complete a true patient record; and a way to look at ultrasounds and other images from anywhere so that specialists can consult over the phone with community hospitals and one another. Oh, and products that live up to their sales pitches. The way some imaging systems are sold, he said, "People think they are on AOL at home and want to see a patient's radiology image, and they will click and there it will be. In reality, these are very dense, and we tell people if you want that image, click on it and go make a cup of coffee."
His all-time favorite technological product: e-mail.
Mr. Ricci of I.B.M. can barely hide his disgust with most of this -- it is as if he were living on the Starship Enterprise and he just landed on a strange little planet where the natives etch prescriptions on stones and use leeches to rid themselves of disease.
His vision of e-health goes far beyond the patchwork of in-house systems UMass is cobbling together. In fact, he wants e-health to take care almost completely out of the hospital.
Medical devices that use the Internet to connect home and doctor open vast new possibilities for improving care and lowering costs, he said. For instance, "A bathroom scale is a medical device," he said. "If someone has congestive heart failure and we give them a bathroom scale with a modem, it would decrease costs. They go to a party, gain two pounds because they're retaining fluid, and that scale calls to my case managers, locks the fridge, says order a diuretic. The bathroom scale is a pervasive computing device that decreases admissions, but if congestive heart failure is my biggest profit center, that could have a huge negative impact."
He added: "A hospital of the 21st century is an I.C.U. and an organization whose unit is knowledge and expertise, not necessarily health care delivery."
Dr. Seger said that her center did have a pilot program to use patient home devices that operate much like a bathroom scale. More such tests are "absolutely" coming, she said, even if she does not envision hospitals disappearing the way Dr. Ricci wants.
"Quality medicine is in prevention for sure," she added. "But saying that we don't want home devices is like saying we want more people to smoke so we can have more lung cancer patients. The issue is financial and human resources, and that is a never-ending struggle."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At UMass Memorial, Katy Robbins, a nurse, monitors the labor of Christina Rice while John Rice, her husband, offers support.; Outside the emergency room, top, and inside, above, where James Taggart, left, an attending physician, and Michael Ayers, resident orthopedic surgeon, examine X-rays. (Photographs by SUZANNE DeCHILLO/The New York Times)(pg. H10); At UMass Memorial Hospital, Dr. Michael E. Ayers examines a digital X-ray; Dr. Anne Seger reads lab results at home; Ron Bragg stores data; and a nurse, Katy Robbins, monitors a patient's progress via her computer. (Photographs by SUZANNE DeCHILLO/The New York Times)(pg. H1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MASS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TELEHEALTH (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); MEDICARE (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; SEGER, ANNE (DR) JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



640 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 6; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE OVERSEAS;
South African Firms Are Going High-Tech At Their Own Speed

BYLINE: By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
WHEN Sasol Ltd., a world leader in energy resources and a powerhouse of South African industry, decided earlier this year to start buying its paper and pens online, it went to its longtime supplier and fellow Johannesburg company, Waltons Stationery, and outlined its plans.
If Waltons, the country's biggest office supplier, wanted to be part of Sasol's future, the 70-store Waltons chain had to change the way it did business. 
 Today, Waltons receives Sasol's orders, worth more than $2 million a year, over the Internet. For South Africa, a country where television first appeared little more than two decades ago, the arrangement would seem to have been a breakthrough.
Waltons's entry into e-commerce, however, is for the moment benefiting only Sasol and a few other big customers. It will be next year, the company said, before small businesses and individuals will be able to order a case of paper or a box of pens online from Waltons.
The reasons help illustrate the peculiar potential of e-commerce in South Africa, where first-world wealth and third-world desperation coexist in an uneasy amalgam of inequality.
Although South Africa's economy is only about the size of Belgium's, it dwarfs other African nations. Under President Thabo Mbeki, inflation has dropped and the country's credit rating has climbed.
But efforts to streamline its consumer economy are hampered by a huge gap between rich and poor, a legacy of the apartheid era, compounded by heavy nationalization. Adult illiteracy was estimated at 30 percent in 1995, and 4.2 million people out of an estimated total population of 45 million are currently thought to be infected with the virus that causes AIDS.
Waltons sells mostly to businesses, from small outfits to huge conglomerates. It began its business-to-business and business-to-consumer Internet effort about a year ago. But about six months ago, after the big companies came calling, it decided to make business-to-business its priority and postponed its consumer shopping site until next year. Its revised timetable suggests that Waltons is not fretting that it will lose many of its ordinary customers.
Not only do the big companies have the infrastructure to make business-to-business e-commerce and its enormous savings a reality, but they also have well-established relationships with their suppliers. These include systems for receiving regular orders, collecting payments and making deliveries. Often, the only step left is shifting much of that onto the Internet.
But South Africa has nothing like Sears, Roebuck & Company, Victoria's Secret or L. L. Bean and the mail-order culture that in the United States helped pave the way for Amazon.com and its imitators. Buying or selling -- whether it's a power drill or panties or a parka -- any place but a store is a new concept here and is only slowly taking hold.
"We are actually quite far behind," said Allison Mills-Daggatt, a former executive with the office-supply store Staples who is now the e-commerce director for Waltons. "There is so much potential in this whole business, but we're not even where Staples was four years ago. It's a bit frustrating how slow it is."
There are reasons for the reluctance to order online, or even over the phone.
Topping the list is a notoriously unreliable national mail service, which often forces the use of costly courier services. Then there is Telkom, the South African telecommunications monopoly, which is undergoing privatization. A 30 percent stake in Telkom has been sold and the company is set to face competition within several years.
That is way too long for a business revolution, so many people are looking beyond fixed-line phones and personal home computers.
Optimists are attaching their hopes to mobile phones, which have more than five million users, including a fair share in the impoverished townships.
Indeed, for every high-speed data line coursing through the corridors of the country's high-powered investment banks and industrial conglomerates, there are hundreds of homes that have never been connected to traditional telephone lines. And they are unlikely to be any time soon.
According to the 1996 census, only 11 percent of blacks, who make up just more than three-quarters of the population, had a telephone in their home or a cell phone. The figure for whites was 89 percent.
As a result, e-commerce has been an uneven exercise in South Africa. Big companies have plunged in at Pentium speed, while ordinary customers and the businesses that serve them have been far slower.
One argument says that too few people are shopping online to make noticeable discounts and speedy service economical; the counterargument says that more people would shop online if retailers offered more.
It is, however, possible to buy everything from cereal to books online in South Africa, and more sites are opening monthly. But it may be a less-than-satisfactory experience, leaving a shopper longing for a local shopping center.
Certainly the share of South Africa's 45 million people who have online access -- estimated at one million to two million -- is paltry. But it is hardly surprising, considering the apartheid regime's neglect of the black majority.
And for their part, many businesses in South Africa are still finding their way in a world in which they were isolated for so long. Big businesses with considerable international exposure, like Sasol, have been among the most aggressive, seizing on e-commerce.
With its office supplies now being ordered over the Internet, Sasol is poised to move on to more sophisticated and more expensive supplies like drill bits, grinders, electric motors and pipe fittings.
"It's early day for us, but at least we can say we're doing it," said Alex Zwiegelaar, the general manager of Sasol's information and logistics division.
And Waltons has benefited from its big customers' demands. "It made us make things happen," said Tina Piccione, the marketing director. "It was definitely a blessing in disguise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A street barber in Johannesburg on a cell phone. Mobile phones may help bolster e-commerce in South Africa. (Anton Hammerl); Moving to fill an order at a Waltons Stationery warehouse, left. Sasol Ltd.'s electronic procurement team meets. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SSL (NYSE) (98%); SOL (JSE) (98%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324199 ALL OTHER PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); 

COMPANY: SASOL LTD (98%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (61%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (55%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNET & WWW (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (77%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (69%); AIDS & HIV (66%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%); 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E THABO MBEKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



641 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 22; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TO BUSINESS;
As Competition Heats Up, So Does the Threat of Collusion

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is a paradox of the new Internet economy. Thousands of companies have begun to participate in hundreds of new business-to-business exchanges, buying and selling supplies and products and achieving new economic efficiencies, creating a more transparent marketplace that holds great promise for better prices, lower costs, faster production and greater competition.
But experts have been warning that the same technological advances that make such exchanges more popular and efficient also could make it easier for there to be collusion among rivals, price fixing and other anti-competitive conduct that could lead to higher prices and less competition -- and would be harder to trace. 
 "To the extent there may be a serpent in the Garden of Eden, it is this," said Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. "Whenever you put competitors together in a joint venture, you have to ask what information is being exchanged? Will it facilitate collusion?"
When the business-to-business markets are formed as joint ventures by traditional rivals, they cannot operate without government approval, and in recent weeks, officials in Washington and Europe have announced their views on the first of what promises to be a long line of proposals. American and European antitrust officials have moved cautiously, approving in principle the formation of the first joint ventures for the exchanges with caveats that they will be closely watched as they come online.
In approving the establishment of Covisint, an online venture that would allow five major automakers to buy supplies through a single Internet portal, the trade commission warned that it would continue to monitor the venture for possible anti-competitive issues after it opens . Automakers are expected to use the site to list parts they seek from suppliers, which would then offer bids to secure a contract in a procedure commonly referred to as a reverse auction. The participants include Ford, General Motors, DaimlerChrylser, Nissan Motor of Japan and Renault of France. They have said Covisint may wield enormous purchasing power, accounting for $240 billion each year.
A few weeks before that, the European Commission approved the formation of MYAircraft.com, a joint venture by United Technologies, Honeywell and the software company i2 Technologies that would allow aerospace companies to trade parts and services.
Antitrust experts say that they have three main concerns about the rise of such exchanges, which are appearing in industries ranging from steel, construction and chemicals to retailing and consumer goods. First, they may exclude some companies, limiting competition. Second, they may require that companies use one exchange exclusively and shun all others, creating one dominant exchange that would have too much power.
But the largest concern among consumer advocates and some experts is that buyers or sellers would collude on pricing and take steps to set prices in unison. The experts worry that because rival companies can see pricing information faster than in other markets, it is easier to coordinate prices without ever speaking to one another.
"The biggest fear is that there is a coordination of prices by companies and that, as a result of the new technology, the companies will leave no tracks," said Albert A. Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a Washington research organization. "With these exchanges, we're seeing a Cambrian explosion of new animal forms, in all industries, and all at once. If we allow it to happen with businesses calling all the shots and no government intervention, it may be impossible to curtail problems later."
Lawyers working on these ventures for the companies say there is little to worry about as long as the exchanges are structured properly and adequate safeguards are put in place.
William Baer, a former antitrust official at the trade commission who has advised health care companies and retailers on business-to-business antitrust issues, said that the potential antitrust issues posed by exchanges were not novel to the Internet but had been seen in more traditional markets.
The biggest concern, he said, is if competitors are able to coordinate their pricing by learning in advance of the prices being offered by their rivals.
"As long as you aren't disclosing in advance your pricing information, then you should be able to deal with that antitrust risk," said Mr. Baer, a partner at the law firm of Arnold & Porter.
The issue is hardly novel. In 1994, six large airlines settled charges brought by the Justice Department that they had used a computerized reservation system to fix fares. The airlines agreed to end the practice of communicating proposed fare increases through the system maintained by the Airline Tariff Publishing Company.
To some extent, Mr. Baer and other experts said, the experience with the slightly older business-to-consumer exchanges is instructive of antitrust issues confronting the business-to-business marketplace.
In recent months, several companies with online operations have begun to face scrutiny by antitrust officials for possible anti-competitive conduct. The investigations often involve complaints filed by rivals and occasionally reflect tensions between Internet start-up companies and older, more established businesses.
Orbitz, an online travel agency being formed by five major airlines, has drawn scrutiny from the Justice Department and Capitol Hill after rivals like Travelocity and Expedia complained that the company would receive preferential treatment, and better fares, from its owners. The owners -- American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Airlines, Northwest Airlines and United Airlines -- deny that they would steer more favorable fares to their online company, which they plan to introduce next summer.
And other business-to-consumer Web sites in the marine and real estate industries have denied accusations made by more traditional rivals of forming possible anti-competitive relationships.
Those experiences have not dampened the enthusiasm for business-to-business exchanges, although they have highlighted the need for taking great care in forming them. They have also led to a new and lucrative avenue of business for antitrust lawyers who are called at the formation of such exchanges to provide advice, set up safeguards and head off regulatory concerns.
Mr. Pitofsky of the trade commision said that when he spoke at a recent conference of general counsels of American companies, he asked how many were setting up business-to-business exchanges, and more than one-third of those in the audience raised their hands.
"Probably more than 900 companies are now making such plans," he estimated, a rise of more than 50 percent in the last few months alone. "It's amazing how trendy and fashionable these exchanges have suddenly become."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); JOINT VENTURES (88%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); CARTELS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); PRICE FIXING (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN WILLIAM BAER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



642 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 24; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TO BUSINESS;
When Competitors Are Partners, How Bare Do They Dare?

BYLINE: By MARGOT SLADE 

 BODY:
CONVERSATIONS in the boardroom are using the language of the bedroom -- openness, commitment, vulnerability and trust -- as e-nabled companies give one another come-hither looks. It isn't mergers they want, but partners. With the Internet cutting the cost of information exchanges and transactions, e-commerce executives say networked partnering is the best way to create goods and services.
But declaring yourselves an item, even in business, always raises certain expectations of intimacy. In an Internet context, these expectations are higher. After all, the premise of the promised supply-chain revolution is that manufacturers and their suppliers can become vastly more efficient if the chain becomes see-through and everyone knows how things are going. 
 In this world, knowledge -- information, expertise and more -- is not just power. It is an asset to be appropriated, refined, enhanced and then sold. No wonder the demand is high among Internetworked partners to bare it all.
"Prepare to be naked," said Don Tapscott, the chairman of Digital 4Sight, a strategy consulting and research firm in Toronto, and a co-author of "Digital Capital," a guide to corporate survival in the new economy. "To succeed on the Internet, especially in these groups we call B-webs, companies must prepare to reveal information about themselves, their products and their business processes, even previously sacrosanct information, and even to sometime competitors, because it will be in their common interest."
It makes sense for businesses to want to give each other advice where and when it can do the most good. "You need your partners to be able to ask the right questions, to elicit the information they need to give you their best service or product," said Jakob Nielsen, a principal of the Nielsen Norman Group, a Silicon Valley company that specializes in making the Internet easier to use.
But many companies are, well, prudes. Justifiably so, say some business consultants, noting that no company wants to hand informational crown jewels to competitors. "Not everyone should whip off their clothes and hop into the hot tub," Mr. Tapscott said. "Companies need to think through what information do we need, and what do we have to provide? What are the safeguards? What deals do we make so that information is not used by our competitors? What is the level of trust here?"
Even in a trusting relationship, partners may want to keep some fig leaves strategically in place. "You may have supply-chain problems internally that you don't want to reveal," said Ken Ouchi, a corporate vice president at the Solectron Corporation, one of the nation's leading providers of electronic manufacturing services.
Or you may want to augment information with your knowledge. "That becomes your added value," Dr. Ouchi said. A customer orders 120 components, for example. You have 100 on hand and, in reality, you know only 90 will be needed. "Pure transparency, being stark-naked," Dr. Ouchi said, "would result in your telling your partner you don't have enough. But managing the relationship, and the information, means saying you can fill the order."
That information must be managed within a process, like invoicing or product servicing, that is also a relationship, consultants and e-business executives say. Witness the efforts of Fadi B. Chehade, the chairman and chief executive of Viacore Inc., which allows supply-chain trading partners to exchange and manage real-time business processes using the Internet. Mr. Chehade spearheaded RosettaNet, an industrywide consortium that built consensus among computer and electronic component supply chains to standardize information processes.
"Companies don't understand that information sharing is really business process /relationship-centric, not information/transaction-centric," he said. "From this ignorance, or maybe fear, they relegate information sharing to the technical side of the house, to people who can manage information but who cannot manage relationships, people who will take your knowledge currency and squander it."
An example: "Formulating RosettaNet, we gathered people from throughout the industry to discuss warranty management," Mr. Chehade said. "Some companies sent information technology people. What we needed were warranty experts who could determine what information is needed to guarantee warranties, what should the work flow be and its time constraints." Standardizing B-to-B dialogues in this way, he added, makes them replicable and gives participants a measure of control and security.
"It's all about the business process," said Eric S. Michlowitz, the director of supply- chain e-business solutions at the Dell Computer Company. "You have a set of objectives in mind. You need a process to achieve them. The process will involve Dell, a build-to-order computer company, and its suppliers, along with the information needed to support that process to meet the business objective."
By moving the process and the relationship to the Internet, Dell did more with the information it already shared, like quality deviation -- the number of components rejected on assembly lines. "Dell and its suppliers could see problems in real time at the same time, as they were forming," Mr. Michlowitz said, "so we could decide how to act."
But Dell went further, shedding some information inhibitions. "We gave suppliers access to the link between our planning side -- here's what we think we'll need in terms of components -- and our execution side -- here's what we're really consuming -- so that they can shift inventory to the factories in need," Mr. Michlowitz said. "Now, we can see the train wrecks coming and work to prevent demand outpacing supply."
And since Dell ships its own computers directly to customers, suppliers who introduce new products can immediately see how they are performing and where. "Internet technology allows our entire supply chain to capitalize on our information," Mr. Michlowitz said. "We think that makes us more attractive to suppliers."
Dell, however, does retain some modesty. "We won't show suppliers their share of our business -- what percentage of our hard drives any one company provides, for example," Mr. Michlowitz said. "We don't want them to be able to leverage that. We do give them score cards indicating how they are doing against the best in their class, without naming names." Nor will Dell share cost data. Of course, Dell would derive more than voyeuristic pleasure from learning what percentage of a supplier's business it constitutes. Not all suppliers are willing to show or tell, however.
As for security, Dell puts its trust in nondisclosure agreements and its own high standards. "We constantly remind people here that supplier information is sacrosanct," Mr. Michlowitz said. "Sharing it inappropriately is a firable offense."
AT I.B.M., the historically tight security is tighter still for its Dell service account, and includes a jointly held database external to both companies' computer systems. After all, in PC production, the two companies are competitors. It took "executive involvement on both sides" to open communications, said Tom E. Conway, director for global services at I.B.M., who negotiated the agreement for the company.
Nowadays, it seems that I.B.M. Global Services and Dell are playing "getting to know you," sharing information weekly, sometimes daily, regarding service calls; the warehousing of Dell replacement parts; which parts are needed for a repair, as against the ones Dell supplies; and how I.B.M. performs in the field. "Obviously, we see performance data about their products," Mr. Conway said, noting the "contractual fire wall" -- with stiff financial penalties -- requiring that that information stays within Global Services.
The safeguards don't end there. Not only are Global Services and the PC division housed in two different cities (Atlanta and Raleigh, N.C., respectively), but there is also the so-called DMZ database that holds all transactions and information moving between the two companies. "Only 57 people in all of I.B.M. worldwide have the ability to see those data," Mr. Conway said. And those 57 people, he added, are restricted from switching to I.B.M.'s PC company for at least three years after they finish with Dell.
It was yet another way, he said, to change I.B.M.'s culture regarding Internet-interfirm cooperation and to ensure that both sides were comfortable exposing themselves.
"We long ago learned that the most effective way to work with others in a firm is to let down your guard and share knowledge," Mr. Tapscott said. "Now, we're learning that the same is true for working with other firms. Before, we needed to break down the silos within the firm. Now, we need to break down the silos that are the firm."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randy Jones)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FLEX (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FLEXTRONICS INTERNATIONAL LTD (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); 

PERSON: SLADE, MARGOT ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



643 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 18; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH;
How Do You Invest in Online Health? Very, Very Carefully

BYLINE: By JONATHAN BURTON 

 BODY:
THEIR euphoria has waned, but some venture capitalists remain hopeful about e-health companies, which use the Internet to disrupt antiquated ways of doing business in the specialized and fragmented health care industry.
"There's a deep-seated inefficiency and disorganization in health care, and a deep-seated resistance to change," said Barbara Santry, a partner at Capstone Ventures, a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif. "If you could make a difference, the prize is probably the biggest, because health care is the largest single industry in the U.S. economy." 
 Yet e-health's promise has its perils. Memories are still fresh of the high-concept consumer health Web sites that went public at valuations that burned white-hot, then crashed. "The e-health stocks were a Wall Street event, as opposed to a health care event," Ms. Santry said. "People like myself have become much more interested in the path to profitability."
Accordingly, many of the e-health companies that receive venture financing sell proprietary technology aimed at streamlining the health care infrastructure. High on the list are services that eliminate tedious manual labor and paperwork, thus reducing costs and bureaucracy. These intermediaries tend to pocket a regular fee for their work, which provides them with a relatively predictable stream of earnings.
"We're trying to look for these broad waves of innovation," said Eugene Hill, a general partner at another venture capital firm, Schroder Ventures Life Sciences in Boston. "If it's really valuable, somebody's willing to pay for it."
Health care investors also have a high degree of patience for deals to play out, especially compared with venture capitalists who back the momentum-driven information technology start-ups that have made headlines and overnight fortunes. "We don't think in terms of a good deal having to return $1 billion," said Barbara N. Lubash, a partner at Versant Ventures, a health care venture firm in Newport Beach, Calif. "We're trying to return 10 times our money on a success. The information technology V.C. might be thinking in terms of 100 times."
Indeed, the phenomenal returns from venture investments in technology and telecommunications over the last couple of years have dimmed the health care sector's status as a durable long-term holding.
The latest results of the quarterly PricewaterhouseCoopers Money Tree Survey of venture capital show that health care-related investments in the second quarter of 2000 represented just 2.3 percent of the $19.5 billion of total venture financing, the smallest share recorded for the sector since the firm began collecting health care data in the first quarter of 1997.
"It's a more complex environment," Ms. Lubash said about health care. "Incumbent companies have a great advantage compared to newcomers."
One of Versant Venture's main bets is eHealthContracts, a Hayward, Calif., enterprise that helps doctors, hospitals and insurers negotiate and manage their fee-based service contracts. "Health care is such a tight-margin business," said Helen Wilmot, the chief executive of eHealthContracts.
"You live and die by your contracts," she said.
One of the company's underlying strengths is its neutrality in dealing with providers (doctors and hospitals) and payers (insurers and employers), Ms. Wilmot said.
Mr. Hill of Schroder Ventures described health care infrastructure companies similarly, as "selling picks and shovels to the miners," a reference to the purveyors who were big winners during another gold rush 150 years ago in California. "We like those kinds of businesses," he said.
For example, Schroder has invested in Phase Forward, which uses the Web to automate complex clinical trials of both existing and new drugs and medical devices. "All the pharmaceutical company has to do is get on with the business of running the actual trial, while we do all of the back-office work," said Shiv Tasker, the chief executive of Phase Forward in Waltham, Mass. He said that his company can shave at least $50 million and as much as two years off a clinical trial timetable, which can often last seven to nine years, he said.
Venture capitalists are methodical about how they spend money, but health care investors are especially deliberate because blockbuster successes are rare. Before Capstone Ventures commits to a new health care product or service, Ms. Santry said, she and her partners want to understand a few crucial points, including: can the product be quickly and widely adopted? Are top managers and engineers capable of delivering what they promise? How much money will the company realistically require to succeed?
"The need for knowledge is on the high end," said Ms. Santry, who was once a nurse in the Navy. "It takes longer to know health care well because it is a fairly complex industry with a lot of government regulation."
AND as the health care sector has become less popular, raising money for ventures has become more difficult. Companies that require less capital are more attractive to investors than those with higher demands.
"Many venture capitalists have eliminated health care or moved away from it," Ms. Santry said. Such lack of interest, she noted, suggested that health care could be one of the better investments around. "Straw hats in the winter," Ms. Santry observed.
Either an off-season bargain, or not much covering from the cold.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Santry, far left, and Rich Capen, both with Capstone Ventures, a venture capital firm, talk to Mary Jo Gordon of PharmaSpec, which makes medical devices. Barbara N. Lubash of Versant Ventures, far right, talks with Helen Wilmot of eHealthContracts by videoconference. (Susan Spann for The New York Times); (Edward Carreon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SV LIFE SCIENCES ADVISERS LLP (84%); VERSANT VENTURES (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL; FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); TELEHEALTH (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (78%); BONDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); 

PERSON: BURTON, JONATHAN BARBARA SANTRY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



644 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 8; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH;
Dr. Spock Lives On in Books; Coming Soon, the Web Site

BYLINE: By DAN BREKKE; Dan Brekke is a former deputy editor of Wired magazine.

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif.

 BODY:
DR. BENJAMIN SPOCK'S most widely quoted advice is contained in the very first words of "The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care," the 1946 volume that redefined child-rearing in America. "Trust yourself," he told parents. "You know more than you think you do."
Spock's famously gentle directives made him a global publishing phenomenon. By the time he died in 1998 at age 94, "Baby and Child Care" had sold more than 50 million copies. Among baby boomers, he was equally renowned as a principled political activist for his leadership in the movement to end the Vietnam War. 
 Now, though, the doctor's name has been turned into a brand and a Web site, DrSpock.com. And his teachings have been taken into a realm -- the online content business -- that is devoid of the nurturing, patience and good sense he counseled. Investors who a year ago were soothed by the prevailing dot-com wisdom -- "Trust us! There will be profits!" -- have recoiled from content-driven ventures.
If anything, the retreat from content has been more punishing for health-information Web sites, like DrKoop.com, WebMD.com and PlanetRx.com, than it has been for the sector as a whole.
"This is not a good time to be entering the media-driven content market, and in the health space, specifically," said Elizabeth Boehm, an analyst with the health care group of Forrester Research, the consulting company in Cambridge, Mass. "This is in part because of the attention that the flailing e-health sites have attracted, and in part because the ad model doesn't work."
One of the flailingest of them all is DrKoop.com, where wild overoptimism combined with poor management to tarnish a "brand name" founder. The company that originated the site, named for Dr. C. Everett Koop, the outspoken former United States surgeon general, raised $88.5 million in an initial public offering in June 1999. The cash was gone in less than a year.
The company's management made deals to spend nearly $150 million over three years to be a health-information provider to the Disney Company's Go.com and to America Online. In September 1999, an article in The New York Times raised questions about a potential conflict of interest when it disclosed that unknown to the site's users, the doctor received commissions on product sales there. Dr. Koop's contract has been changed to eliminate such commissions, the company said in the same article. Development of online personal medical records, an important adjunct to the company's content business plan, hit a dead end.
DrKoop.com's shares fell below $1. The company is now in the hands of venture capitalists, who have vowed to wring profits from the site.
"The industry is certainly a challenging one to make a business-model rationale for," said Claudine Singer, a research director and senior analyst at Jupiter Research, an Internet consulting company based in New York. Most consumer-focused health-information sites have depended on advertising revenue for a big slice of their income; Jupiter projects that advertising spending in the sector will total $700 million by 2004. "That's just not enough to stay the red ink," Ms. Singer said.
With the market's lack of confidence in content investments and with the demonstrated hazards of trying to turn a mix of health information and e-commerce into profits, why would anyone start a venture built on the wisdom of a deceased pediatrician? Especially when other sites -- BabyCenter.com, Parent Soup.com and Parenting.com (a site featuring material from Time Inc.'s group of magazines on child-rearing), to name a few -- have well-established claims in the infant/parent/advice/commerce territory.
The answer, found in the cramped upper floor of a dingy two-story cinder-brick-and-aluminum bank building in downtown Menlo Park, Calif., has two distinct segments. DrSpock .com embodies a business rationale based half on enduring faith that a "killer brand" will overcome all obstacles and half on enduring commitment on the part of Dr. Spock's widow, Mary Morgan, to see his work brought to new generations.
Ms. Morgan, a board member and the company's vice president for publishing, brings a nearly religious zeal to the job of making sure DrSpock.com stays true to the spirit of her late husband's work.
"I look at Ben's face, his picture, every morning, and I say, 'It's with great love and great respect that I honor your work,' " Ms. Morgan said.
She has rented an apartment a few blocks from the start-up's office so that she can work there every day. Ms. Morgan said that some of the problems on Dr. Koop's site were caused by the fact that day-to-day operations were handled by executives in Austin, Tex., while Dr. Koop lived in New Hampshire. "I come to this place at 6 o'clock in the morning, I open it up, and the people here see me here every single day," she said. "The reason I'm so avid about that is that I want to make sure Ben's spirit will be in this company."
DrSpock.com -- its motto is "Trust yourself" -- was founded late last year and soon found itself caught in the market downturn. The company obtained $2 million in seed capital, then investor money dried up.
The founding chief executive, who had talked about a company that would go public with a valuation in the billions, left. The staff -- a mix of seasoned pediatricians and longtime journalists -- worked for stock while new cash was sought. The site, originally scheduled to open last spring, took its first halting steps the last day of September with no advertising and no signed partnerships in place. And the enterprise is already contemplating a name change -- to the Doctor Spock Company, perhaps -- to free itself from the stigma of a dot-com identity.
Douglas Lee, 35, a former health-industry venture capitalist and father of an 18-month-old daughter, became DrSpock's chief executive in May. When discussing the company's foundation and future, Mr. Lee repeatedly mentions its brand name.
Dr. Spock's cultural renown "is a penny from heaven," Mr. Lee said, adding, "To have a leading brand be available and put a brand-new business strategy behind it without conflict is a once-in-a-lifetime thing."
The business plan -- "We've put a formal business strategy around Ben for the first time in history," Mr. Lee said -- anticipates a media company that will work online, and off, to create an omnipresent "parenting channel."
"We're going across media whether it's the Web, magazines, publishing, TV, radio, wireless," Mr. Lee said. "You're going to see Ben everywhere."
He said negotiations were under way with several media companies to develop Spock-related projects. "You will see a flurry of major, major strategic deals that are going to show facets, though not necessarily the scale, of our media strategy," he said. He declined to give names.
For now, the Web site features searchable content that includes "Baby and Child Care," product-safety news and community discussions on topics like toilet training.
In the near future, the site plans to offer writings from other pediatricians, like Dr. Robert Needlman, a former colleague of Spock and the company's vice president for behavior and general pediatrics. In addition, he is an associate professor of pediatrics at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
DrSpock.com will also add a commerce element that Mr. Lee said will parallel CNet's handling of product reviews and purchases. The company will offer an overview of products -- baby monitors and strollers, for instance. It will be left to those who participate in the site's community areas to comment on or recommend products, he said. The site will also provide shopping links to retailers, so that they can buy the merchandise they have read about.
Mr. Lee acknowledged the competition but maintained that there were crucial differences. And that last word, he said, will be the defining feature of Dr. Spock, the enterprise. "Ben's brand is the brand of experts," he said, explaining that both vintage Spock material and new pieces written by doctors will speak with a voice that is accessible to consumers and authoritative among pediatricians.
ALOOK at the competitive landscape, however, shows sites, like BabyCenter and ParentSoup, that prominently feature advice from pediatricians on a wide range of topics, and ages. BabyCenter, through its new ParentCenter channel, addresses topics from prenatal to age 8, and ParentSoup tracks child-rearing through the teens. Parenting.com -- the newly revamped child-rearing portal site for Time Inc.'s Parenting, Baby Talk, Healthy Pregnancy and Family Life print magazines -- has adopted a cross-media strategy with book offerings and three weekly 90-second TV spots distributed through CNN.
On another point, Mr. Lee said that DrSpock.com's relatively late start matters little. "The brand gives us time, which will give us a way to catch up," he said. "And the brand will put us ahead."
Pat as that game plan may sound, the company has found investors. In addition to $2 million from Broadview Capital early this year, DrSpock.com has received $10 million from Zesiger Capital Group, an institutional investment firm in New York. The money is part of a planned $15 million round that values DrSpock.com at $35 million. Mr. Lee said the cash should last the company through the third quarter of 2001; it intends to expand to 45 employees next year, from the current 18.
Ms. Singer of Jupiter Research said that despite "a primary forecast of gloom and doom" for health-information concerns in general, one can detect glimmers of hope for the company in its brand and in the nature of parenthood itself.
"Parenting is a chronic condition -- you're a parent forever," she observed. "To the degree that a company can serve up relevant tools that are useful to you over time, there is an opportunity for a relationship, even the possibility that people will pay for what you're offering."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Morgan, shown with a picture of her husband, the inspiration for Dr.Spock.com, and Douglas Lee, who is in charge of making it work. (Photographs by Anne Dowie for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (63%); VITC (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); NAICS446191 FOOD (HEALTH) SUPPLEMENT STORES (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (63%); PLANETRX.COM INC (55%); VITACOST.COM INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); GO.COM (51%); AOL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MEDICINE AND HEALTH PARENTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (88%); CHILDREN (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INTERNET CONTENT PROVIDERS (74%); TELEHEALTH (74%); MEDICAL RECORDS (74%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (63%); 

PERSON: BREKKE, DAN; SPOCK, BENJAMIN (1903-98); MORGAN, MARY BENJAMIN MCLANE SPOCK (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



645 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Job Seekers Are Looking Out for No. 2

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU 

 BODY:
The transfer to London from Montreal was Sophie Bouchard's for the asking. And Ms. Bouchard, 31, the top sales representative in Canada for TMP Worldwide Inc., an executive recruiter based in New York, wanted it badly.
But what about her husband? Stephane Licari, 29, had a promising sales career of his own at an Internet company. Was he supposed to just quit his job and start over in a foreign country? 
 When Ms. Bouchard told her boss about their situation, she set up an interview for him with TMP's head of European sales that same day. A job offer soon followed.
"I never thought they'd think about my husband," marveled Ms. Bouchard, who moved to London with her husband and two sons, aged 7 and 8, this month.
Employers are thinking about every angle they can these days to keep employees happy, creating incentives from flexible working hours to signing bonuses and even discount shopping programs.
And now the latest perk: finding jobs for their employees' significant others.
"I wanted to make sure we retained Sophie," said Katherine Corrado, her boss, a senior vice president of global sales and marketing at TMP. "Her husband was perfect for the job."
The trend is most pronounced at the hiring stage, when counteroffers from rivals abound. A decade ago, most employers would have done little more than send out the help wanted section from the local newspaper to an applicant's spouse, recruiting specialists say. But with some key executive positions taking months to fill, companies are adding new inducements to their mix of pay and perks.
And the more desperate they are to fill a position, the bigger the boost they are willing to give to the spouses' careers, said Thomas Bloch, the owner of Southern Research Services, a recruiting firm in Tampa, Fla. Mr. Bloch cites the example of one of his clients, a South Carolina company, which was so eager to hire an executive in Michigan as its director of benefits and compensation that it offered to spend thousands of dollars to relocate her husband's car-renovation business.
The wife ended up turning down the six-figure job largely because of her husband's reluctance to start over. But nobody can fault the company for not trying. "Companies are to some extent going to extremes," Mr. Bloch said.
According to the most recent study by the Employee Relocation Council in Washington, about half of employers surveyed in 1998 provided some sort of spouse/partner employment assistance and of those, 34 percent had formal programs in place to address the issue, up from 22 percent in 1990. The average cost of the assistance was $1,545, the study found, though some employers spent up to $20,000 for expenses like hiring head hunters.
And those figures do not count the hours clocked by employees at companies that are trying to lure new talent. Kelsey Berg, a recruiting strategist at Microsoft in Redmond, Wash., recalled doing research to see if the local school system had any openings that would appeal to a job candidate's wife. "I even pulled a favor with my sixth-grade daughter's teacher so she could talk to someone who worked in the Seattle school district," Mrs. Berg said.
The growth of the two-career family, and the increasing self-confidence of skilled workers in the current hot economy, are driving the trend. "People don't operate today out of fear and trepidation," said Mordean Taylor-Archer, an associate provost at Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kan., who deals with career issues. "They are more willing and open to talk about their needs -- their spouse, their kids."
And their standard of living. The economy may be hot, but the dark side is a low savings rate and high levels of personal debt. Many families cannot afford even a temporary dip in their income. "People can't survive long these days without the second income," said Patrick Lennahan, director of the career center at Roger Williams University in Bristol, R.I.
Some companies are even plunging in with tips for spouses without being asked. Michael Honig, who moved to Seattle from Denver to start a job as a training specialist for Microsoft this month, said he thought the company was paying lip service to career of his wife, Emily, when it asked for her resume in his final job interviews.
But Mrs. Honig, who worked in human resources for a Denver company, is being considered for two jobs at Microsoft and for an opening at another Seattle company, thanks to Microsoft's help, he said.
While such employment assistance is becoming more prevalent, recruiting experts say, many companies are reluctant to talk about the practice, fearful of setting a precedent they will be unable to live up to for every new hire.
In September, the University of Alabama in Birmingham started the Spouse/Partner Relocation Network, a consortium of local employers that helps match job openings at member organizations with the spouses of new university hires.
"It's a lot better than just looking at the Monster.com listings," said Connie McLernon, an administrative assistant for a Montgomery design firm, who is getting career help from the university's network. Her husband, Dennis, accepted a job as an acting instructor at the University of Alabama in August but he has been commuting from Montgomery until the couple sells their home and she finds a job.
Whether a company has a formal policy or not, Damian Birkel, executive director and founder of the Professionals in Transition Support Group in Winston-Salem, N.C., suggested job seekers take the initiative and ask about partner help. But, he advised, wait until a potential employer is close to making a job offer.
In any case, he added, "You're not going to get it if you don't ask."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sophie Bouchard, center, with her husband, Stephane Licari, and their sons, Adrian and Matthias, on moving day. Both parents now work for TMP Worldwide in London. (Andre Pichette for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Your Mate's Fate"
How to bring your spouse into the picture:
 
Wait until a job offer seems imminent to ask about career help for your spouse.
 
Get details about the company's formal policies. Does it hire spouses? Will it pay for a recruiting firm?
 
If no policies exist, request a job-search allowance for resume mailings and other expenses.
 
Get names of spouses who have benefitted from career assistance and ask about their experiences.
 
Get everything in writing.
 
(Source: Professionals in Transition Support Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; MARRIAGES; FRINGE BENEFITS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (95%); SALES FORCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (75%); FLEXTIME (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (73%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); 

PERSON: TAHMINCIOGLU, EVE SOPHIE BOUCHARD (79%); THOMAS BLOCH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



646 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 4; Workplace 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: LIFE'S WORK;
The Furtive 3 P.M. Phone Ritual

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN; This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT three o'clock this afternoon, give or take an hour, countless employees will pick up the telephone and make a most unbusinesslike call. If their employers were to listen in (which, as we all know, they can do, but that's a subject for another column) they would hear some variation of the following: "Did you do your homework?" "Are you sure you locked the door?" "Don't talk back to the baby sitter." "Don't let anyone in, and don't answer the phone."
With all the talk in the workplace lately about the needs of parents, it is striking how much of that talk is about the needs of new parents rather than those whose children are in school. Corporate America is justly proud of its maternity-leave policies and its child care centers. But, as my grandmother used to say "little kids, little problems; big kids, big problems," and less attention is being paid to those of us who are paying less attention once school lets out. 
 "Nearly all the progress has been around infancy and preschool, as if children have no problems once they start kindergarten," said Carol Maxym, a psychotherapist and author of "Teens in Turmoil" (Viking Penguin, 2000). The mother of one of her patients, she said, "won't make an appointment after 2 because she might not know where her daughter might be." Another told me she would sneak out of the office for an hour every afternoon to pick up her teenage son so she could be certain he would make it home from school.
The 3 o'clock phone call has its roots in the 19th century, back when most families lived on farms. There were crops to be tended during the summer, so schools necessarily closed for three months. There were chores to be done before dark, which is why schools let out in the middle of the afternoon.
"Our society is still living on a schedule that made sense then but makes no sense now," said Dr. Jody Heymann, director of policy for the Harvard University Center for Society. She is the author of "The Widening Gap: Why American Working Families Are in Jeopardy and What Can Be Done About It" (Basic Books, 2000).
"Our children, for the most part, don't live on farms anymore, and their parents aren't back on the farm waiting for them to come home," she said. "Still, we're stuck with a situation where school days are two-thirds shorter than workdays and the school year has 30 percent fewer days than the school year."
The result of this temporal gap are children like 9-year-old Josh Ray, who is profiled by Laura Sessions Stepp in "Our Last Best Shot" (Riverhead Books, 2000), her book about the rocky terrain of adolescence. Josh's mother, Gail, works in the loan department of a bank in Ulysses, Kan., and his father at a meat-packing plant. The local middle school doesn't offer any after-school activities, and because this family actually does live on a (nonworking) farm, there are few other children close enough to visit. After a bad experience with an inept baby sitter, Josh and his 8-year-old brother began to stay home alone in the afternoons, and their mother checked in by phone as often as she could.
"I spent a lot of time thinking about all the trouble they could get into when I wasn't there," Mrs. Ray told me. Those visions turned all too real one afternoon when the boys played with matches and accidentally set fire to a couch. After that, the calls came more often, and she found it even harder to concentrate on making bank loans.
As Dr. Heymann points out, as stressful and unsatisfying as the 3 o'clock call might be, workers like Mrs. Ray are lucky that they are able to call at all. "Sitting in your white-collar cubicle, listening to parents calling home, you forget that for many workers, that call is not an option," she said. "They have no access to a telephone, or they're not allowed to leave the factory floor."
The solution, she believes, lies not with the telephone, but with the clock and the calendar. "We need a longer school day and a longer school year," she said. "It's that simple."
Other countries, she points out, have done this "and their economies certainly haven't collapsed." American children go to school 180 days, while those in the Netherlands and Luxembourg have a 220-day school year, with Germany close behind at 213. If school textbooks and equipment were 100 years out of date, she said, parents would protest. So why do they accept a school schedule that is a century behind the times?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WORKING HOURS CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); CHILD CARE (75%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); WRITERS (70%); SEX EDUCATION (68%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA JOSH RAY (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



647 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Ford Shows Off Devices for Improved Safety and Mileage

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 24

 BODY:
Seeking to restore its reputation for safety and respond to high gasoline prices, the Ford Motor Company announced today a half-dozen high-technology approaches to improving traffic safety and gas mileage.
Among the devices demonstrated at a news conference were tiny cameras that will send images from all around a vehicle to the dashboard as well as bumper-mounted air bags for the protection of pedestrians. Ford also showed off a six-speed automatic transmission and computer-controlled engine cylinders that are designed to help the company meet its pledge, made last July, to improve the average fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles by 25 percent by 2005. 
 Ford executives and engineers refused to say when the safety gear would go into mass production, a common tactic among automakers for competitive reasons, and acknowledged that some of the equipment could be 5 or 10 years away. All the engine and transmission changes are scheduled for introduction by 2005, however.
General Motors and other automakers are racing to develop similar safety and fuel-efficiency technologies, although Ford went further in disclosing the progress it had made. Priya Prasad, Ford's top safety engineer, said he began working on today's announcement half a year ago -- long before Firestone announced on Aug. 9 the recall of 6.5 million tires mounted mainly on Ford Explorer sport utility vehicles and blamed for more than 100 deaths. The tire problems nonetheless came up repeatedly during the news conference, particularly because many of the technologies previewed today were aimed at addressing problems created by the growing number of sport utilities on the roads.
None of the technologies are designed to prevent tire failures or reduce the odds that a sport utility would roll over if the tires fail, the combination of events that has led to most of the deaths linked to Firestone tires. Ford said in August that it would begin offering optional, computer-controlled stability systems on all its sport utilities, and it said last January that it would start equipping sport utilities with ceiling-mounted air bags to reduce the odds that occupants would be thrown through side windows during rollovers.
Helen Petrauskas, the company's vice president for safety and environmental technologies, said today that Ford, like other automakers, was also working on technology to monitor tire pressure or temperature continuously. Firestone has said that its tires failed partly because of underinflation, which can cause tires to overheat and come apart.
Some of the safety technology may raise privacy issues. G.M. has been criticized for installing "black boxes" as standard equipment in some luxury cars for the last two years to record the details of crashes.
Ford demonstrated today a camera that takes a picture of the interior of a vehicle's passenger compartment every 15 seconds. When a crash occurs, the vehicle transmits to an emergency dispatch center the last photo taken before the crash plus a photo taken after the crash. Receiving both photos allows dispatchers to assess whether any occupants have been ejected from the vehicle and whether the occupants were wearing their seat belts before impact -- two considerations in deciding whether to send one or more ambulances to the site of the crash, said Srini Sundarajan, Ford's supervisor of safety research and development.
Ford also showed cameras the size of a pencil eraser that can be mounted around a vehicle so as to provide drivers with views in all directions, including forward-facing cameras on the side mirrors to help drivers see around trucks ahead. Engineers showed that the forward-facing cameras would even allow motorists in a Lincoln Navigator sport utility to look around a Ford Excursion, which is so big that if it was a fraction of an inch wider, it would have to carry special running lights on the sides like those of freight trucks.
Rear-facing cameras will include zoom lenses that will allow motorists to observe people and objects behind them in great detail.
Only police vehicles will be manufactured with the ability to record images from the any of the exterior-view cameras, but other customers may choose to buy off the shelf and install their own recording ability on their vehicles, said Gary Strumolo, a Ford engineer who helped develop the system.
Kary Moss, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Michigan, said she was troubled by some of these features, particularly the zoom lenses. "It certainly has Big Brother overtones," she said.
Sara Tatchio, a Ford spokeswoman, said the system that takes pictures of a vehicle's interior, for transmission to rescue dispatchers, would be optional. As for the use of cameras on a vehicle's exterior, she said that was no different from mirrors, while adding that she was not aware of any discussion within the company on whether zoom lenses raised particular privacy concerns. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 5108 (TSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (69%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; AIR BAGS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (89%); TIRES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



648 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Fuzzier and Fuzzier

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Did you know that if Al Gore is elected president, and his economic plan is put into effect, 2.3 million Americans will die next year?
Supercilious Washington insiders may try to confuse you by pointing out that even if Mr. Gore isn't elected, 2.3 million Americans will die -- that next year's mortality rate has nothing to do with who wins the election. But you can deal with that by chanting "No fuzzy math!" until the election is over. 
 No, George W. Bush hasn't blamed Mr. Gore for American mortality. But he's done something comparable. Mr. Gore has been pointing out, correctly, that Mr. Bush has promised $1 trillion in Social Security taxes to two different groups of people -- telling young workers that he will allow them to invest the money in personal accounts, while assuring older workers that it will be available to pay for their retirement. So Mr. Bush has responded by charging that Mr. Gore's Social Security plan will add no less than $40 trillion to the national debt.
That seems like an awfully big number. It turns out to be an estimate of the total value of payments from the general government budget to Social Security, including interest, that will take place over the next 50 years. And I could bore you by explaining why that number is meaningless.
The really amazing thing, however, is that the number has nothing to do with Mr. Gore. It's true that Social Security will need transfers from general revenue if Mr. Gore's plan is put into effect. But it will need just as much money if Mr. Gore's plan isn't put into effect. The only way to reduce the required aid would be to reduce the benefits promised to retirees.
Meanwhile, Mr. Bush has said nothing about reducing benefits. So his plan for Social Security would cost just as much as his opponent's -- or rather considerably more, because to honor those contradictory promises he has to find another pot of money somewhere.
Maybe blaming Mr. Gore for future mortality wouldn't have worked; but Mr. Bush's advisers seem to think that blaming him for the entire future liabilities of the Social Security system will, or at least can serve temporarily to confuse voters who might otherwise have started to think too clearly about the subject. Only two weeks to go until the election, and we can clean up the mess later, right?
But what a mess it's going to be. Those Social Security payments aren't the only sums being promised to two different groups of people.
Mr. Bush's plans -- and, to a lesser extent, Mr. Gore's plans -- are based on projections that assume there will be no increase in federal discretionary spending over the next 10 years. But over the last few months, while you weren't looking, Congress went on a bipartisan spending spree -- with a cost estimated by both Democratic and Republican analysts at more than $800 billion over the next decade.
How will the next president deal with this bad news? Mr. Gore has a bit of slack in his budget, and has proclaimed that protecting the surplus is his highest priority; maybe he would decide to jettison his unloved and unlovely targeted tax cuts. But Mr. Bush's budget even now adds up thanks only to creative accounting, and he has made it clear that he cannot conceive of anything that would make him renege on his tax-cutting promises. (Did someone say "Read my lips"?)
The odds, then, are that soon -- perhaps as soon as next year -- those projections of future budget surpluses will have been revised dramatically downward, and longer-term projections will show deficits as far as the statistical eye can see. This will pose real economic risks; it will also be a severe blow to our self-confidence. We will shake our heads at our earlier optimism and wonder what we were thinking.
But the answer, of course, is that we weren't thinking, and in general disapproved of those who did. However the election turns out, the reaction to the debates made it clear that voters have a visceral dislike for candidates who seem intellectual, let alone try to make the electorate do arithmetic.
Indeed, the motto for this election year -- and the epitaph for the soon-to-be-departed budget surplus -- should be: Real men don't think. Unfortunately, what you refuse to think about can still hurt you. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); OLDER WORKERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (52%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



649 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Con Ed's Plan To Buy Utility Looks Shakier

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Casting further doubt on its proposed $3.8 billion acquisition of Northeast Utilities, Consolidated Edison said today that it would ask Connecticut's utilities regulatory agency to reconsider its decision last week to impose dozens of conditions that company officials said could kill the deal.
Investors sent Northeast Utilities' stock price plunging $2.25 today to close at $19.13, 10.5 percent below Monday's closing price. 
 Earlier this month, Con Ed's chairman, Eugene R. McGrath, criticized the state's Department of Public Utility Control for issuing a draft approval document containing conditions that he said did not benefit company shareholders.
On Thursday, after the agency announced its final approval of the deal, Con Ed responded with less-than-enthusiastic silence. Finally, on Monday, the company issued a statement after the markets closed saying that the conditions were "substantially different from anything that we had any reason to expect."
"Unless the order is substantially modified," the statement said, "it so significantly changes the economic effects and risks of the merger that it calls into serious question whether the transaction will be completed."
Today, a Con Ed spokesman, Joseph P. Petta, said the company would not discuss specific conditions it objected to. But among the likely sticking points are those that would cost the merged company, to be called New Consolidated Edison, millions of dollars over several years.
To prevent the company from using labor cuts to recover a mandated cut in residential gas and electricity rates, the state agency demanded that the company impose a two-year freeze on layoffs. The agency would also prevent the company from recovering a $1.5 billion "acquisition premium" from consumers by forcing two Northeast Utilities subsidiaries to split any profits above 11 percent with consumers.
It would also force Con Ed to accept a $60 million loss in costs created by the deregulation process.
Con Ed has 11 days to send the agency a formal request to reconsider its conditions, an agency spokeswoman said. The agency would then have 25 days to respond.
The proposed merger would place 6.5 million gas and electricity customers in eight states under the aegis of what would be the largest utility company in the Northeast.
Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney general, has urged the state to reject Con Ed, saying the deal would hurt the state's consumers, environment and economy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); NU (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; NORTHEAST UTILITIES CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; NORTHEAST UTILITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); UTILITY RATES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



650 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslav Leader Admits the Serbs' Role in Fomenting War

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Yugoslavia's new president publicly acknowledged today for the first time that Yugoslav forces committed widespread killings in Kosovo last year. Although falling short of an apology, the statements by the president, Vojislav Kostunica, marked the first time any Yugoslav leader had expressed regret for the conflicts in the Balkans.
In an interview to be broadcast by CBS News tonight on "60 Minutes II," Mr. Kostunica spoke about Belgrade's role in starting -- and losing -- four Balkan wars in the past decade. 
 So far he has refused to extradite anyone, including the man he replaced as president, Slobodan Milosevic, for trial on war crimes charges before a United Nations tribunal in The Hague. But he raised the possibility of trying suspects in Yugoslavia.
"I am ready to accept the guilt for all those people who have been killed," he said. "For what Milosevic had done, and as a Serb, I will take responsibility for many of these, these crimes."
Yugoslav state television broadcast the interview today with a voice-over in Serbian.
President Kostunica also strengthened his grip on power today by winning important concessions from the Serbian parliament, which approved a transition government to administer the republic until new elections on Dec. 23. Serbia is the dominant of the two republics remaining in the Yugoslav federation; the other is Montenegro.
Mr. Milosevic's party agreed to share power with reformist forces in the transition government -- a major concession because the current administration could have served until regular elections in the fall of 2001. Mr. Kostunica's supporters held only three seats in the 250-member legislature.
Establishment of new administrations at both the federal and republic levels are preconditions for receiving millions of dollars in emergency aid from the West to rebuild Yugoslavia's shattered economy.
Mr. Milosevic's Socialists, who hold 110 of the 250 seats in the republic's parliament, agreed to the transition government plan on Oct. 16 but parliamentary approval was delayed because of differences with Mr. Kostunica's Democratic Opposition of Serbia on individual appointments.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Official to Meet Kostunica
 (By The New York Times), PRISTINA, Kosovo, Oct. 24 -- Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said today that he would meet President Kostunica on Wednesday in Macedonia.
Mr. Holbrooke arrived in Kosovo today to show his support for Kosovo's first post-war elections, scheduled for Saturday, and to allay ethnic Albanians' concerns over the political changes in Serbia, of which it is technically still a province.
At a news conference here, he said Mr. Kostunica had suggested that they meet during a gathering of regional leaders in Skopje, Macedonia's capital.
"I want to hear what he will say," Mr. Holbrooke said. "He is the first democratically elected leader of Yugoslavia ever."
The meeting will be a continuation of talks held in Belgrade by James O'Brien, special adviser to President Clinton on the Balkans, and will range over all the issues that loom over peace in the Balkans, including implementation of the 1995 Dayton peace accords in Bosnia, the prosecution of war crimes and Yugoslavia's re-entry into the United Nations, Mr. Holbrooke said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of Slobodan Milosevic finally approved a provisional government for Serbia yesterday, and members signed their oaths. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (95%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); WAR CRIMES (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); 

PERSON: KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



651 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Redeveloping Space to Keep Manufacturing Jobs

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
When the Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center opened in 1994, supporters of manufacturing in New York City cheered: what had once been a decrepit rope factory on the Brooklyn waterfront had been turned into a low-cost home for light manufacturing companies and artisans.
When the center opened, the nonprofit development organization behind the project, the Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center Development Corporation, said it was looking at other old industrial sites to renovate in an effort to stem the migration of manufacturing jobs from the city. Now the organization, which typically redevelops properties that private developers might find unprofitable, is starting to translate those intentions into reality. Last month, it opened a second manufacturing center in Brooklyn and announced plans to develop seven more projects in the next three years. 
 According to J. David Sweeny, the corporation's chief executive, the new centers will give the city up to 1.5 million square feet of new manufacturing space, enough to help create 2,500 to 3,500 manufacturing jobs.
The group's newest manufacturing center is in an 80,000-square-foot building at 810 Humboldt Street in Greenpoint. The two-story building, which was built in 1961, had been used as a warehouse and bowling alley but was largely unused for the last three years.
Last May, Mr. Sweeny's group bought the building for $4.3 million from the Commodore Manufacturing Corporation, a Brooklyn-based distributor of Christmas ornaments. Then his group began a $2 million renovation to prepare it for tenants by mid-August.
The building had a lot going for it, said Curtis Cravens, the director of development and government relations at the Mr. Sweeny's organization. It was in sound structural shape, and it is close to a number of important transportation points, like the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, as well as to two subway stations, Nassau Avenue and Greenpoint Avenue, both seven blocks away.
The inside of the building, however, was another story. According to Mr. Sweeny, it was essentially open space that needed to be subdivided into 12 smaller spaces. But the interior also needed new electrical wiring, heating, ventilation and windows, as well as new interior doors and walls.
All 12 of the building's spaces, ranging from 4,000 to 20,000 square feet, have been leased, to 10 woodworking concerns and one garment company that makes quilts and curtains. There will also be space, Mr. Cravens said, for a services shop where tenants will be able to use equipment like spray painting booths.
One of the tenants on Humboldt Street is a woodworking business owned by Weber Roberts and Brooks Crane, a husband-and-wife team that makes custom cabinetry and furniture. Mr. Roberts said they are paying an annual rent of $9 a square foot for 4,350 square feet.
Mr. Roberts and Ms. Crane used to lease space for their business at 60 Broadway Street in Williamsburg. But they lost their space on Sept. 4. Their former landlord, Mr. Roberts said, "was trying to get high-tech companies into the building at $30 a square foot; we were paying $6 a square foot."
Mr. Sweeny said his organization decided to gear the Humboldt street building to woodworkers after receiving numerous phone calls from local artisans -- mostly in Manhattan and Brooklyn -- who were either losing their work spaces or who could not find new space.
"The screams came the loudest and with the most frequency from the woodworkers, so we decided to solve their problems first," he said. He added that rents at the property were in the $6-to-$9 range, which is 30 percent to 50 percent less than similar space in Manhattan and 10 percent less than the market rate in Brooklyn.
Woodworking concerns and artisans also account for the tenants at the first manufacturing center that Mr. Sweeny's organization opened in Brooklyn, in 1994. That building, at 1155 Manhattan Avenue, is being converted into a co-op for its 72 tenants, who together employ 500 people.
Eventually, Mr. Sweeny's organization hopes to help other types of manufacturers at the centers that it is still developing.
The group is in negotiations on two of the properties. One of them is a four-story, 115,000-square-foot building at 37-24 24th Street in Long Island City. According to Mr. Sweeny, it would provide ideal space for garment manufacturers. The second property is a 65,000-square-foot building at 191 Harrison Avenue in Williamsburg that the organization hopes to renovate for Arlington Press, a local company that makes pharmaceutical insert labels.
The Greenpoint nonprofit group has acquired, or is in contract on, five other properties, Mr. Sweeny said.
While he could not disclose details on one of them, because of a confidentiality agreement, he said that the four other properties were a vacant 65,000-square-foot former candy factory at 132 Harrison Place in East Williamsburg, scheduled to be ready for occupancy by small food manufacturers by the end of the year; an 80,000-square-foot, mill-style building at 37 Greenpoint Avenue whose tenant base has not yet been determined; a 24,000-square-foot vacant loft building at 7 St. Nicholas Avenue in East Williamsburg that will probably be used for industrial tenants; and a 70,000-square-foot industrial building at 130 North Fourth Street in the Williamsburg area that will be marketed to upscale food producers and distributors who are looking for adjacent retail space.
Kathryn Wylde, the president of the New York City Investment Fund, founded by Henry R. Kravis, the financier, to invest in projects to promote the city's economy, said that last month her fund gave Mr. Sweeny's group a $1 million loan.
"We're generally not a real estate investor, but we see our investment in them as having a real multiplier effect," she said. "They are going to create the infrastructure that is going create hundreds of businesses, which, in turn, are going to employ thousands of people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brooks Crane, left, and Weber Roberts, right, are among tenants of a new manufacturing center at 810 Humboldt Street in Brooklyn developed by a nonprofit organization headed by J. David Sweeny, center. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: GREENPOINT MANUFACTURING AND DESIGN CENTER COMMODORE MANUFACTURING CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPOINT MANUFACTURING AND DESIGN CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ROPE CORDAGE & TWINE MILLS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); QUILTS & QUILTING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CHRISTMAS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); BOWLING CENTERS (51%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA; SWEENY, J DAVID J DAVID SWEENY (96%); WEBER ROBERTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



652 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of Kim Jong Il

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's visit to North Korea this week illustrated the opportunities and risks of defrosting relations with the world's last Stalinist state. Dr. Albright was given a gracious reception and spent six hours in constructive talks with Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader. But she and the reporters accompanying her saw a highly regimented society organized around a slavish personality cult even as it struggles with severe shortages of food, electricity and most of the basic conveniences of modern life.
Coaxing North Korea out of its long international isolation and limiting its development of advanced weapons are important American goals. The Clinton administration has handled North Korea well, but diplomacy has now reached a critical stage as President Clinton weighs whether to visit Pyongyang in the waning days of his presidency. 
 Dr. Albright reports "important progress" toward agreement on restraining the North's development, testing and export of longer-range missiles. Firm agreements on these and other subjects, like a North Korean commitment to distance itself from international terrorism and return abducted Japanese nationals, could justify a Clinton trip. But Mr. Clinton should go only if concrete results are assured in advance.
North Korea has good reasons for cultivating improved relations with Washington. If Pyongyang wins removal from America's list of countries supporting terrorism, it will become eligible for badly needed loans from the World Bank and other international institutions. North Korea also wants the prestige of establishing formal diplomatic ties with the United States.
For the past six years North Korea has frozen its nuclear weapons development program in exchange for American and international help in constructing two civilian power reactors. For more than a year the North has abided by an agreement to suspend long-range missile testing. More recently it offered to abandon its missile development effort in exchange for foreign help in launching space satellites. Specialists from both countries will soon meet to discuss specific steps North Korea can take to limit its missile program.
The North also enhanced its credibility when Kim Jong Il met with South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, in June, although it has lagged in following up with further gestures of reconciliation. Dealing with North Korea remains full of uncertainties, as Dr. Albright discovered when Kim Jong Il brought her to an elaborate tribute to the achievements and military strength of North Korean Communism. That is not the kind of spectacle Mr. Clinton should attend if he travels to Pyongyang. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN & INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TERRORISM (67%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (56%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) KIM JONG IL (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



653 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE BATTLEGROUNDS;
Florida Interstate's Heavy Campaign Traffic

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Oct. 24

 BODY:
The parties and the presidential candidates are concentrating their campaigns in Florida in these last, tense days before the election on the cities and towns along Interstate 4.
The nearly three million voters who live more or less along the maddeningly overcrowded, 100-mile-long highway that bisects the state from Daytona Beach on the Atlantic Coast to the Tampa Bay on the Gulf of Mexico are the swing voters in this, the largest of the swing states. 
 They may be getting more attention these days than any other voters in the country as the candidates compete for Florida's 25 electoral votes. Hardly a day goes by when one of the presidential or vice-presidential candidates, or a family member, or a prominent supporter from outside the state is not campaigning somewhere along this narrow corridor.
"This state is the key to this election," Vice President Al Gore declared at a rally in Orlando earlier this month, "and Central Florida is the key to this state."
On Wednesday morning, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, his brother Jeb, the governor of Florida, and Senator John McCain of Arizona are to attend a rally in Daytona Beach, then board a bus to campaign the length of the I-4 corridor, stopping at midday near Orlando to appear on television there, and finishing up with an evening appearance at the state fairgrounds outside Tampa.
"This is the critical area for Republicans in any statewide election," said Representative Charles T. Canady, a Republican from Lakeland, a town along the Interstate about halfway between Orlando and Tampa.
Much of Florida is already locked up by one party or the other. The Gold Coast, from Miami to Palm Beach, is solidly Democratic. The dominant voters moved down from the Northeast, especially from New York and New Jersey. Many are Jewish, and the politics are decidedly liberal.
The Cuban vote in South Florida, which is overwhelmingly Republican, and the black vote, largely Democratic, tend to offset each other.
North Florida, from Jacksonville across the Panhandle to Pensacola, is almost indistinguishable in its politics from Alabama and South Georgia. A recent Democratic poll showed Mr. Bush winning the region by better than 2 to 1, according to Buddy Dyer, Democratic leader of the Florida Senate.
Southwest Florida, with a large number of affluent retirees from the Middle West, is also strongly Republican.
In fact, Susan MacManus, a political scientist at the University of South Florida in Tampa, has calculated that in all but 8 of the 67 counties in Florida, one party or the other has an advantage in voter registration of more than 3 percentage points. Of those eight most closely divided counties, she found, five are in the I-4 corridor.
In 1992, Ross Perot won more than 25 percent of the vote for president in some counties in the area. No one has tabulated who won along the corridor in the last two presidential elections, because there is no consensus on exactly which communities to count and which to exclude. But the best guess, the authorities say, is that President George Bush probably won a narrow plurality in 1992 and that Bill Clinton may have won a majority in 1996.
Few other places in the country have changed more than this area. A generation ago, the Tampa area was beginning to grow. Daytona Beach was already famous for spring-break frolicking and stock-car races. Slightly south of Daytona, the economic boom and population growth stimulated by the space program at Cape Canaveral had begun.
But between the coasts, I-4 was a sparsely traveled highway through mile after mile of orange groves, small lakes, pine woods and prairie.
Then, on Oct. 1, 1971, Disney World opened, and Central Florida was changed forever. The groves became theme parks and hotels. The pine trees with their gray Spanish moss were thinned to accommodate golf courses. The flat prairie land was turned into one subdivision after another.
And in the last decade, high-technology businesses have sprouted throughout the region, bringing high-paying jobs and conspicuous affluence. The unemployment rate along the corridor is almost nil.
For the politics of the state, this has meant a great deal of uncertainty. The people who have moved to Central Florida are not primarily retirees, like those in, say, St. Petersburg or Naples, but young families with children. And they mainly brought with them the suburban values of northern sprawl, not the values of the big cities in the East or the small towns of the Middle West.
The prevailing view among politicians is that these voters, much more than others in Florida, cast votes based on their pocketbooks, not their ideology, and are more concerned about education than Medicare.
So politicians cannot rely on one-note speeches and advertisements the way they can take stands on Social Security in retirement communities or against gun laws in the Panhandle. They have to articulate their entire range of positions if they expect to appeal to a substantial number of voters along the I-4 corridor.
"They don't adhere to party labels," Bob Poe, the state Democratic chairman, said of residents along the corridor. "Their vote is completely up for grabs."
Al Cardenas, the state Republican Party chairman, agreed with that assessment and said that was the reason the Bush campaign was placing so much emphasis here.
"In any election in Florida," he said, "if you know who wins the I-4 corridor, you can pretty much predict what the outcome of the election will be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Flordia highlighting Interstate 4: Nearly three million voters live along Interstate 4 in Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (99%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (95%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (99%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (95%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS VOTERS & VOTING (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); CITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E AL GORE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



654 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Better Inclination

BYLINE: By Richard Lowry and Ramesh Ponnuru; Richard Lowry is editor and Ramesh Ponnuru is a senior editor of National Review.

 BODY:
For George W. Bush, compassionate conservatism has been a fair-weather campaign theme. When he was dominating the Republican field in 1999, or maintaining a sizable lead over Al Gore most of this summer, Mr. Bush could afford to spend all his time talking about his innovative programs for the poor and what they said about his heart.
But Mr. Bush has twice jettisoned compassionate conservatism when sharply challenged. After John McCain defeated him in New Hampshire, he came back as an unmodified conservative, suspicious of federal campaign-finance regulations, disdainful of Washington and eager to cut taxes. He has fought Mr. Gore similarly, running as a reformist outsider against a big-government Democrat. 
 There's a reason that when the going gets tough, compassion goes. It has proved to be a limp and expendable campaign theme, especially for a conservative Republican.
The danger of a candidate's describing himself as compassionate is that it enables his opponents to portray him as self-involved, morally vain and softheaded. Senator McCain attracted many voters because he appeared to be a tough, plainspoken leader. And Mr. Bush, as long as he was promising to be a uniter, not a divider, and to touch every willing heart, didn't have that appearance. Nor could he refute Mr. Gore's contention that he was running on a warm and fuzzy personality rather than on ideas that would benefit the public.
Of course Mr. Bush all along presented his political philosophy, and not just himself, as compassionate. But that didn't work, either. Conservatism practically begins with the fear that the attempt to express compassion through the state is likely to backfire. It insists instead on the importance of judgment in moral matters and self-reliance in economic ones. Both virtues are in tension with compassion, and even more with the sentimentality that often mistakes itself for compassion. People sense all this instinctively, and recent surveys show that the public considers Mr. Bush no more compassionate than any other Republican and thinks he "cares" less about people than Mr. Gore does.
Compassionate conservatism fails, finally, as a political strategy. It might have worked if the public were so eager to leave the Clinton years behind that it would vote for any reasonably competent Republican who showed that he didn't have fangs. There was no shortage of would-be strategists who believed that the weariness with President Clinton did go that far. But especially after Mr. Gore established himself as his own man at the Democratic Convention, it became necessary for Mr. Bush to advance a more compelling argument.
Since Labor Day, he has been doing that. He has not stopped claiming that as president he would govern with the interests of all Americans, including minorities and the poor, in mind; nor should he. But he has also made the argument, much more clearly than in the past, that he would serve the values and interests of the middle class better than Mr. Gore would. And those values and interests point toward a smaller federal government.
So do those of the successful Americans Mr. Gore denigrates as the wealthy. In the national elections in 1998, Republicans lost crucial ground among people in households making more than $75,000 a year -- a quarter of the electorate that year. Now, according to at least one poll, Mr. Bush is winning their votes by 23 points.
If Mr. Bush is elected, it will not be primarily because of his personality, compassionate or otherwise. It will be because America remains, in crucial respects, a conservative country that wants energetic conservative leaders. Mr. Bush would be wise to remember that, should he move to the White House. After a tumultuous year, he surely appreciates a bedrock truth of conservatism: It's not always fair weather.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Angus McWilton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES CONSERVATISM (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); TAX LAW (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: LOWRY, RICHARD; PONNURU, RAMESH; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



655 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Aid Plan for Colombia Falls Short of Drug War's Goals

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Signaling reservations about Colombia's deep reliance on American military support, the European Union announced a package of nonmilitary aid today that fell short of expectations. The decision could undercut Colombia's $7.5 billion program to curtail coca production and curb the influence of leftist guerrillas.
As envisioned by President Andres Pastrana, the program -- known as Plan Colombia -- would require $3.5 billion in international aid to go along with the $4 billion that Colombia had vowed to contribute. 
 But European diplomats, meeting with officials here at the Foreign Ministry, said the European Community's contribution would now total about $321 million in nonmilitary aid. That appears to leave Colombia short of the total. The United States has earmarked $1.1 billion in mostly military aid. International lending institutions and Japan are providing $1.3 billion in loans, but the Colombians had hoped for much more in donations.
"We don't know if they are disappointed," a European diplomat said of Colombian leaders. "But we can't be dreamers."
Colombia tried to put a positive spin on the European commitment, with Colombian officials saying that, with the loans and donations, about $3 billion of the $3.5 billion expected from the international community would now be available.
"This is a demonstration of the solidarity for Colombia," said Colombia's Foreign Minister Guillermo Fernandez de Soto. "We feel very positive that this plan has support."
But in Washington, a senior congressional staff member said that more international money for social programs and development was needed to balance out what the United States was spending.
"Everyone was looking for the rest of the world, particularly the Europeans, to do the soft side," said the official, referring to nonmilitary aid. "We have done the military side. You can't do one without the other."
A high-ranking Colombian official, citing American reports that Europe is consuming 30 percent of the coca that Colombia produces, said Europe should do more. "If they don't do it, we'll never resolve this problem," the official said.
Some people doubt that the Pastrana government can allocate as much as it has said it would contribute. Colombia, for decades a bastion of economic stability, is now in the midst of a debilitating recession. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COCA (PLANT) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); COCAINE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN ANDRES PASTRANA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



656 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Anti-U.S. Fury in Jordan's Streets Overshadows a Trade Pact

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Oct. 24

 BODY:
On the day that Bill Clinton held a White House ceremony with Jordan's king to sign a trade pact, Muhammad Nubeni and his friends paraded through the streets here today denouncing the American president.
Tens of thousands of Jordanians -- most of Palestinian origin, like Mr. Nubeni -- marched toward the border with Israel, demanding an end to Jordan's diplomatic and economic relations with Israel and condemning American support for Israel. 
 "To hell with Clinton! To hell with Barak!" they chanted as they filed out of town, furious at the televised scenes they had watched Monday night of Israeli tanks in Jerusalem shelling nearby Palestinian villages.
The marchers converged with protesters from other Jordanian cities at a point a few miles from the West Bank, and then skirmishes with the Jordanian police quickly became open battles and enveloped the crowd in billows of tear gas. Police helicopters hovered overhead and youths pelted riot squads with stones, in scenes that marchers and other witnesses said mirrored the daily clashes on the western side of the Jordan River.
Scores were injured, though few seriously, said march organizers, who criticized "the exaggerated response of the security forces."
Such a display of turmoil and anger would have been unusual in Jordan before the past month's battles between Israelis and Palestinians set off raucous demonstrations here. And by the end of the day, the protests had completely overshadowed the trade pact.
The government had hoped the deal would present Jordan and its economy in an attractive light abroad, while convincing critics at home that the country was getting tangible rewards for its support of American mediation in the region.
"The timing is a bit awkward," said Rami Khoury, a Jordanian political commentator, "because the U.S. is now seen here to be the bad guy." What's at issue, he said, is the "overpowering importance of the Palestinian issue here."
The events in Washington and on the streets of Jordan underscored the competing pressures on the Amman government as it tries to maintain ties with Israel and the West while paying allegiance to Arab nationalism and the Palestinian cause.
The government recently challenged the United Nations sanctions against Iraq and played host to the Libyan leader Muammar el-Qaddafi. Both steps scored points with critics of Jordan's ties to Israel. Still, outrage at the deaths of more than a hundred Palestinians in the recent conflict in Israel and the Palestinian lands intensified public sentiment against Israel and the United States.
Business leaders and diplomats praise the trade accord as a personal triumph for King Abdullah, who has ruled now for 20 months, capping an ambitious economic liberalization program that he hopes will attract investors and jobs to his country, which has few natural resources.
Jordan is just the fourth country to sign a free-trade agreement with the United States, and the first Arab nation to get barrier-free access to the American market.
The agreement, which is subject to Congressional approval, would put Jordan on an equal footing with Israel and with the Palestinian Authority, which enjoys duty-free access to the American market under the umbrella of the Israeli agreement.
Though trade between Jordan and the United States barely exceeds $300 million a year, the potential of such a big market has great appeal to investors. Such investors are the key to providing good jobs to the young, underemployed and largely Palestinian work force.
But the market potential does not overcome fears of upheaval.
"Everything falls down like a house of cards when there is political instability," said Omar Salah. Three months ago, based largely on the pending trade accord, Mr. Salah's company was asked to start a $100 million venture with Vishay Intertechnology, an electronics manufacturer based in Pennsylvania.
Last week, after watching televised scenes of demonstrations here and hearing warnings from the State Department about travel to Jordan, Vishay executives told Mr. Salah they were pulling out.
"With everything that is going on, we decided to put it on hold," Felix Zandman, Vishay's chief executive, said in a telephone interview. "Most of Jordan's population is Palestinian, and we weren't sure that our people would be safe there."
For the thousands of Jordanians who marched towards Israel's border today, a trade pact is at best a distant abstraction, and at worst an unwelcome symbol of Jordanian dependence on the United States.
Today's march was organized by professional groups -- including the lawyers' and doctors' associations -- that have campaigned against the peace treaty with Israel that Jordan signed six years ago. They have also fiercely opposed any normalization of economic and cultural relations with a country they see as an enemy.
Opponents of normalization have been gaining momentum for several years, propelled by widespread disappointment that the peace treaty failed to deliver much in economic benefits. But the government was able to portray the opposition as a movement on the wrong side of history. Not only Jordan and Egypt, but Morocco and Tunisia and Qatar and Oman were also quietly establishing trade links with Israel. So was Indonesia, the largest Muslim nation.
But with the violence of the past month and the Arab League's call over the weekend for a freeze in relations with Israel, all Islamic countries except Egypt and Jordan, the two with peace agreements, have severed their tentative ties.
"The most disturbing thing that has happened is that any regional cooperation or integration has practically ended," said Taher Masri, a former prime minister of Jordan. "The Arab League summit effectively ended any hope of integration. And now Barak, for his own political reasons, is also shutting the door."
Jordan is also pulling back, refusing to dispatch its newly appointed ambassador to Israel and asking state employees to donate a day's salary to support the Palestinians. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VSH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (61%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (97%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; JORDAN; JERUSALEM; JORDAN (97%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); RIOTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); HELICOPTERS (53%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ABDULLAH (KING) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



657 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Business Groups That Back Superintendent Spend Big in San Diego School Board Race

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
The television advertisement opens on a school hallway, with a voice asking, "As our children pass through our schools are they learning all they should be?"
It then turns its attention to a school board member. 
 "Fran Zimmerman is leading the fight against San Diego's Back to Basics Reform Plan," the advertisement continues, detailing votes Ms. Zimmerman made against a school book drive, all-day kindergarten and extra math and reading classes. "Tell Fran Zimmerman to stop voting against back-to-basics school reform, because it's working."
The advertisement is part of a half-million-dollar campaign, financed largely by a handful of businesspeople, and directed mainly at one school board candidate, Frances O'Neill Zimmerman.
It is rare for a school board seat to be the focus of high-priced television commercials, but the race here is heated.
Ms. Zimmerman is one of the most vocal opponents of the superintendent, Alan D. Bersin, a former United States attorney who has instituted a back-to-basics overhaul since he took over the troubled schools two years ago.
In the process, Mr. Bersin has alienated the teachers' union, which supports Ms. Zimmerman, with his strict top-down style and such measures as the elimination of 600 classroom aides. But Mr. Bersin, one of a number of noneducators who have been put in charge of large school systems, has won applause from the business community. The community feared that, with test scores low, the dropout rate high and schools deteriorating, it would not have a properly educated and trained work force in a booming economy.
Ms. Zimmerman says the business community, instrumental in hiring Mr. Bersin, is trying to buy control of the board so it will simply serve as a rubber stamp for Mr. Bersin.
"It's not a question of a rubber stamp," Mr. Bersin said in an interview. "It's a question of a board engaging in high-quality discussion."
Mike Griffith, a policy analyst with the Education Commission of the States, said he had never heard of such a large amount being spent in a local school board race. "It's a lot by any standard," he said.
The advertisement, which actually says nothing about the Nov. 7 school board election, was paid for by the Partnership for Student and Achievement, a not-for-profit group that received large donations from businessmen such as John Moores, the San Diego Padres owner, John Walton, a Wal-Mart heir, and Irwin Jacobs, the head of Qualcomm. The group says the advertisements were not meant to influence the election, but it does not dispute their message: get behind Mr. Bersin's school changes or get out of the way.
"Originally, the ads were very generic," said John W. Johnson, chairman of the partnership and C.E.O. of the San Diego Urban League. "Then as people began to speak out against basic reform, speak out against supporting the superintendent, who we support wholeheartedly, I guess they got caught up in the maelstrom, but it is nothing personal."
The race between Ms. Zimmerman and her opponent, Julie P. Dubick, is viewed as critical because on the superintendent's changes, the board has typically split 3-to-2 with Ms. Zimmerman and John de Beck, a trustee who is not up for re-election, voting against the measures.
Ms. Zimmerman has raised more than $80,000 (compared with $40,000 to win four years ago), and Ms. Dubick, with the backing of business, including some of those donating to the partnership, has raised more than $110,000.
Those figures, combined with the nearly $500,000 in television advertising by the Partnership for Student Achievement, have elevated the race to the point that many educators and residents are questioning the reasons behind the money.
Mitch Mitchell, vice president of public policy for the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, which has endorsed Ms. Dubick, said Mr. Bersin should have a chance to show whether his changes will work.
But Ms. Zimmerman, noting that it takes a 4-1 vote to pass some land measures, said that what may be motivating the business community is the money that is to be made in contracts and real estate deals with the district.
Mr. Mitchell said this was an example of how Ms. Zimmerman's claims can be overblown.
"The insinuation that this is about land is technically representative of the problem with this whole discussion," he said.
Ms. Dubick, a lawyer, said she decided to run because she felt her district was being hurt by the personality clash between Ms. Zimmerman and Mr. Bersin.
Ms. Zimmerman says she has been unfairly criticized.
She said that while she voted against the book drive, as the advertisement says, she did so because it involved allocating $1 million to a private venture. She said she voted against full-day kindergarten because of concerns about specifics of the program. As for the superintendent's educational overhaul, Ms. Zimmerman said she believed it would re-segregate Latinos and African-Americans, who would be placed in in special literacy programs.
Mr. Bersin's program has included expanding teacher training programs, increasing spending for books and extending the school day and school year for students needing extra attention. He has also added early childhood education programs, math specialists and enhanced literacy programs at eight of the lowest-performing elementary schools.
Parents who were interviewed at underperforming schools expressed appreciation for some of the changes even if they took no stand on the election.
Outside Kimbrough Elementary school, one parent, Danny Lopez, said he was impressed by the reading program.
"As soon as all the kids go in, they go to the reading program," said Mr. Lopez, whose 6-year-old daughter, Adrianna, is in first grade.
James T. Harris, whose granddaughter Tajisa Wallace is a kindergartner at King Elementary, said he liked the parenting program, which is now more integrated into the schools.
He expressed concern about the campaign against Ms. Zimmerman, saying the race has become "too politicized."
Gretchen Viehl, who has two children in the San Diego schools and is a former P.T.A. president, supports Mr. Bersin.
"He's shaking things up," she said, "and that needs to be done."
Mr. Harris, who escorted his granddaughter to King, said that while he supported Mr. Bersin, he planned to vote for Ms. Zimmerman.
"I like the way she talks," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a heated race for the school board, a group of businesspeople are directing a $500,000 advertising campaign to oust one board member, Frances O'Neill Zimmerman, who has opposed the superintendent. (Dave Gatley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; FINANCES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES SCHOOL BOARDS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BOARD CHANGES (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR FORCE (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); BASEBALL (64%); 

PERSON: ZIMMERMAN, FRANCES O'NEILL; BERSIN, ALAN D; WHITAKER, BARBARA ALAN BERSIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



658 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Labor Praises New Trade Pact With Jordan

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
President Clinton and King Abdullah of Jordan signed a free trade agreement today that commits them to safeguard worker rights and the environment, an unprecedented step that won praise from labor unions and environmental groups that have opposed every major trade initiative of Mr. Clinton's presidency.
The agreement is the first one in American history that includes labor and environmental standards as part of the main text, essentially putting the rights of workers to form unions or the duty of companies not to pollute rivers on the same plane with tariffs. The accord requires both sides to fully enforce their labor and environmental laws so that companies cannot gain a trade advantage by ignoring them. 
 The United States sells Jordan less than $300 million in goods each year -- approximately the value of two Boeing jumbo jets -- and Jordan sells this country far less. But the Clinton administration called the accord a new template for trade that, if implemented broadly by the next administration, has the potential to lower the political temperature on trade agreements and speed passage on Capitol Hill.
But Republican lawmakers said that while they supported the idea of free trade with Jordan, trade agreements as a rule should deal with trade alone and should not be used as tools to advance a social agenda.
The issue has resonated on the campaign trail. Vice President Al Gore, whose campaign depends heavily on labor support, has said that any future trade deals he negotiates as president will address workers and the environment. Gov. George W. Bush has said that he considers such issues impediments to free trade.
The agreement, if passed by Congress, would make Jordan only the fourth nation to eliminate tariffs with the United States. The others are Mexico and Canada, partners with the United States in the North American Free Trade Agreement, and Israel.
Jordan, which borders the West Bank and has a population that is half Palestinian, is considered an important player in the Middle East peace process. Clinton administration officials said they hoped the trade agreement would lift Jordan's stagnant economy.
"By opening markets we can help ease poverty that makes peace hard to achieve and harder still to sustain," Mr. Clinton said this evening after the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and Jordan's Deputy Prime Minister Mohammad Halayqah signed the pact.
The Clinton administration has addressed the link between labor and environmental issues before. It negotiated side agreements to Nafta in which Mexico promised to protect workers and the environment.
But labor unions and environmental groups fiercely opposed Nafta because they argued that Mexico had weak labor and environmental safeguards and that the side agreements did little to improve matters. The groups have also opposed Mr. Clinton's attempts to win "fast track" trade negotiating authority and the recent China trade accord.
The Jordan agreement goes a step further because it addresses workers' rights as part of the text. The two nations reaffirmed their commitments under the International Labor Organization and promised not to lower standards to encourage trade. Any disagreements about labor practices could be addressed through a dispute settlement process and could potentially result in penalties. The provisions related to the environment are similar.
"This is a basic and important step forward in making globalization work for working families," said John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president. "This agreement does not relegate workers' rights to second-class status."
The Sierra Club, the National Wildlife Federation and other environmental groups also praised the agreement.
But several Republicans said they did not see the accord as a model, saying that most developing nations are steadfastly opposed to allowing the United States to dictate labor and environmental standards.
"Any effort by the United States to determine standards for developing countries would make negotiations a nonstarter," said Bill Archer, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. He said he feared the Jordan agreement was done for domestic political reasons.
Mr. Archer said he supported the idea that a nation should enforce its own laws and not lower standards to gain a trade advantage, but said he would have to read the fine print before deciding if this agreement went beyond that principle. He said he did not like the concept that one side would have the right to apply sanctions if the other was seen as not doing enough to protect workers or the environment.
Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said most lawmakers were likely to support the Jordan agreement because of the link to Middle East peace. But he cautioned that the precedent could be harmful. "If you favor free trade you can't leave developing countries out of the process, and developing countries don't like this," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); JORDAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: ;SIERRA CLUB; NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION BOEING CO (57%); SIERRA CLUB (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;SIERRA CLUB; NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION SIERRA CLUB (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (59%); NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); JORDAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; ENVIRONMENT; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); RIVERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%); HISTORY (57%); WATER POLLUTION (55%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ABDULLAH II (KING OF JORDAN) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



659 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Campaign Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

 BODY:

THE POLLS
 
A RUMBLING IN CALIFORNIA -- The presidential race is tightening in California, the nation's biggest trove of electoral votes. In a newly released poll, Vice President Al Gore's once-formidable lead over Gov. George W. Bush has shrunk to just five percentage points.
The survey, by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, conducted in the period spanning the second and third debates, found Mr. Gore leading 44 percent to 39 percent among likely voters, down from a nine-point lead in September. Mr. Gore's support slipped away to the Green Party candidate, Ralph Nader, who polled at 6 percent, and to other third-party candidates. But Mr. Bush's support stayed level, showing that he still faces an uphill battle in the Golden State. 
 The poll numbers were enough to prompt one Nader supporter, Greg MacArthur of the group Citizens for Strategic Voting, to drop plans to run full-page ads in California newspapers claiming that a "vote for Nader is not a vote for Bush." The group wants to run the ads only in states not in play, in hopes of winning enough total votes for Mr. Nader to reach the 5 percent national threshold needed to qualify the party for matching federal campaign funds in 2004. Todd S. Purdum (NYT)
 
FLIP-FLOP IN WISCONSIN -- In another new poll, this one from Wisconsin, long considered a hotly contested state, Gov. George W. Bush has taken a nine-point lead over Vice President Al Gore after trailing him by five points in a survey a month ago. The new poll, conducted last week by Harris Interactive of Rochester, N.Y., put support for Ralph Nader at 5 percent, up a point from the poll released a month earlier. (NYT)
 
THE CLINTON SHADOW -- Should President Clinton campaign with Vice President Al Gore?
"No" was the resounding answer Monday night from most of a dozen people at a focus group in Marlton, N.J. Even voters who were Democrats and had favorable opinions of Mr. Clinton told the focus-group pollster, Peter Hart, that the president should steer clear of the Gore campaign.
A Gallup Poll released yesterday affirmed this view. Voters were asked if they would be more likely or less likely to vote for Mr. Gore if Mr. Clinton campaigned with him. Forty percent said "less likely," while only 17 percent said "more likely." Gov. George W. Bush seems to relish the idea of Mr. Clinton appearing with Mr. Gore. "If he can't help himself and starts getting out there and campaigns against me, the shadow returns," Mr. Bush said. Katharine Q. Seelye (NYT)
 
STATEMENTS
 
QUESTIONS ABOUT ARMS DEAL -- Four former secretaries of state and seven other former high level officials, most but not all veterans of Republican administrations, said yesterday that Vice President Al Gore agreed in 1995 to Russia's sale of "highly threatening" military equipment to Iran without fully informing Congress of the deal.
"We are deeply disturbed by the agreement," the former officials said in a statement, faxed to The Associated Press on the eve of a hearing on the issue scheduled by Republican senators. It was signed by George P. Shultz, Henry A. Kissinger, James A. Baker III and Lawrence Eagleburger, former secretaries of state; by Frank C. Carlucci, Donald H. Rumsfeld, James R. Schlesinger and Caspar W. Weinberger, all former secretaries of defense; by a former director of central intelligence, R. James Woolsey, and by two former national security advisers, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Brent Scowcroft.
All worked for Republicans except Mr. Brzezinski and Mr. Woolsey. Mr. Schlesinger served in both Republican and Democratic administrations. A footnote said the signers included supporters both of Gov. George W. Bush and Mr. Gore but did not identify who favored which candidate.
A Gore spokesman, Jim Kennedy, said the 1995 agreement helped safeguard American security, that it was publicly announced and that Congress was briefed on it. "Inaccurate complaints about it, only now, 14 days before the election, speaks for itself," he added. (AP)
 
THE STATES
 
PRAISE FOR GOVERNOR'S WIDOW -- The new governor of Missouri, Roger Wilson, said yesterday that he would be willing to appoint Jean Carnahan, the widow of Gov. Mel Carnahan, as senator should the late governor receive more votes than Senator John Ashcroft in the Nov. 7 election.
Mr. Carnahan, a Democrat, was killed last week in a plane crash while campaigning to unseat Mr. Ashcroft, a Republican. But voters will find his name still on the ballot on Election Day because his death occurred after the deadline for inserting substitutes.
After the crash, many Missouri Democrats began urging Mr. Wilson, himself a Democrat and Mr. Carnahan's lieutenant governor, to state his willingness to appoint Mrs. Carnahan to serve should her husband end up winning. Mr. Wilson had high praise for Mrs. Carnahan but said he was unsure where she stood on serving because she had indicated that holding public office "was certainly not a decision she was ready to make at this time." John W. Fountain (NYT)
 
THE TRAVEL LOG
 
Here are the stats for Tuesday:
Length of official day: Gore, 13 hours; Bush 14 1/2 hours
Official Events: Gore, 4; Bush 3
Cities/towns visited: Gore, 3 (Little Rock, Ark.; Shreveport, La.; Nashville, Tenn.) Bush, 4 (Milwaukee; Arlington Heights, Ill.; Knoxville, Tenn.; Jacksonville, Fla.)
Planes Boarded: Gore, 3; Bush 3
Miles traveled: Gore, 651; Bush, 1,122
Surrogates campaigning: Gore, 19 Democratic senators; Bush, 7 groups of Republican governors
Main message: Gore, the economy; Bush, taxes 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (56%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FOCUS GROUPS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (67%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); RALPH NADER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



660 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
For Limited Government? That's Me, Gore Says

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Oct. 24

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore laid claim to being the candidate of limited government today, rebutting Gov. George W. Bush's labeling of him as a big spender by promising that he would not increase the number of federal employees while he was in office.
He also toughened his critique of Mr. Bush by suggesting that his Republican rival would be "a pliant president" who would mold public policy to please the special interests that have underwritten his campaign. 
 Two weeks before Election Day, Mr. Gore explained his views on government in an address in Little Rock, Ark., the former home of the man who asked him to join his ticket eight years ago. But now fearful of standing beside a tarnished Bill Clinton, Mr. Gore did not invite the president to join him in Little Rock, and he mentioned his name only in passing today.
Administration officials said today that Mr. Clinton was considering campaigning for Mr. Gore, but not with Mr. Gore, in Arkansas and Louisiana sometime next week.
The rally at River Market Square in Little Rock was two blocks from the planned site of Mr. Clinton's presidential library. But with national network cameras trained his way, Mr. Gore repeatedly passed up opportunities to pay homage to Mr. Clinton before the home folks, though he did praise other Arkansas politicians in attendance, like former Senator Dale Bumpers and current Senator Blanche Lincoln.
And yet, Mr. Clinton's spirit and legacy pervaded Mr. Gore's speech, the first of a set of issue-oriented addresses the vice president plans to deliver between now and Nov. 7.
"I don't ever want to see another era of big government," declared Mr. Gore, the Democratic nominee, echoing Mr. Clinton's 1996 declaration that "the era of big government is over." Mr. Gore added, "But I certainly don't want to ever see another era of special interests who wield more power than the American people have."
Mr. Gore bookended his day with appearances in Mr. Clinton's home state and his own, greeting workers at his national headquarters in Nashville this evening and then attending fund-raisers here. In between, he held a rally on a steamy airport tarmac in Shreveport, La. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore carried all three states he visited today in 1992 and 1996.
The vice president hopes to spend the rest of the campaign making the policy distinctions between himself and Mr. Bush as stark as possible, and he began that task with today's address. His goal, he made clear, was to undercut the Republican depiction of him as "a mythical big-spending, big-government candidate, a cartoon image from campaigns past."
"I'm opposed to big government," Mr. Gore declared, speaking to a crowd of invited guests in a convention center meeting room. "I'm for a smaller, smarter government, one that serves people better, but offers real change and gives more choices to our families."
Told of Mr. Gore's remarks tonight, Mr. Bush responded, "He's the biggest spender we've ever had in the history of politics."
Following in Mr. Clinton's ideological footsteps, Mr. Gore said he was the only candidate who believed in limited government. "I have believed in it long before it was fashionable to do so in the Democratic Party," he said. "I don't believe there's a government solution to every problem. I don't believe any government program can replace the responsibility of parents, the hard work of families or the innovation of industry."
To drive home the point, Mr. Gore equated the consequences of government expansion with those of Mr. Bush's proposed $1.3 trillion income tax cut, which Mr. Gore has derided as foolhardy fiscal policy.
"A return to big government," Mr. Gore said, "would be as wrong for our economy as a return to big tax cuts for the wealthy."
To that end, Mr. Gore vowed: "I will not add to the number of people doing work for the federal government, not by even one position, and there will be more who leave those ranks than the ones who are replaced."
He also said he would shrink the federal government to its smallest share of the economy in 50 years and would begin a second phase of the "reinventing government" initiative that he had directed for Mr. Clinton. That round of consolidations and agency reductions cut the number of federal jobs by more than 300,000, Mr. Gore said.
Dan Bartlett, a Bush spokesman, said it "strains credibility" for Mr. Gore to take credit for job cuts because the vast majority of those resulted from the post-cold-war retrenchment in the armed forces.
 
In His Own Words
 
AL GORE
Remarks yesterday in Little Rock, Ark.:
"Empowering people means giving them the power to shape their own lives. Because he gives most of the tax breaks and all the power to powerful interests, Governor Bush will leave millions of families powerless and broke, left to the tender mercies of big impersonal interests and institutions.
I don't ever want to see another era of big government, but I certainly don't want to ever see another era of special interests who wield more power than the American people have. We went through that stage back in the 1890's before the Progressive era.
Now, let's be clear about one thing. The more than $100 million raised by Governor Bush before the campaign really got into its homestretch came in significant part from a new generation of special-interest power brokers, who would like nothing better than a pliant president who would bend public policy to suit their purposes and profits, a president who would turn the decisions over to them. They know that I would fight for you, no matter what. . . .
In this tale of two candidates, I'm the one who believes in limited government and I have believed in it long before it was fashionable to do so in the Democratic Party. I don't believe there's a government solution to every problem. I don't believe any government program can replace the responsibility of parents, the hard work of families or the innovation of industry."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore meeting the Goza family yesterday outside its home in Little Rock, Ark., at a campaign stop in Clinton territory. Mr. Gore made scant reference to the president in his old home state. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (94%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK (ARK); ARKANSAS; LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (94%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); LIBRARIES (52%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RICK PERRY (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



661 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Albright Reports Progress In Korea Missile Talks
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said "important progress" had been made in talks with Kim Jong Il toward persuading North Korea to "restrain missile development and testing, as well as missile exports," though any final agreement would have to await further talks. A1
 
Cole Had No Special Alert
Navy officials said that at the moment of a bomb attack that killed 17 sailors 13 days ago, the destroyer Cole was at a medium-level alert routine for ships in the gulf. A10
 
Clinton Telephones Arafat
President Clinton called Yasir Arafat to urge him to bring West Bank and Gaza rioting under control, but got no assurances and no response to an invitation to come to Washington to try to revive peace talks. A3
 
Thousands of Jordanians marched toward the Israeli border, demanding an end to diplomatic and economic relations with Israel and condemning American support for Israel. A3
 
Victory Claim in Ivory Coast
The military ruler, Gen. Robert Guei, declared himself winner of the presidential election on Sunday, dissolving the electoral commission that showed him trailing his main opponent. A6
 
Bush Pledge Alarms Europeans
European diplomats, officials and analysts expressed disfavor for a promise by George W. Bush that if elected president he will negotiate removal of American troops from Balkan peacekeeping duties and leave such work to Europeans. A12
 
Yugoslavia's new president, Vojislav Kostunica, acknowledged that Yugoslav forces committed widespread killings in Kosovo last year. A12
 
Europe Trims Colombia Aid
The European Union, signaling reservations over Colombia's reliance on American military support, announced a package of nonmilitary aid that fell short of expectations. A12
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A16-25
 
G.O.P. Averts Standoff Over Family Planning Limits
Congressional Republicans agreed to remove restrictions -- on Feb. 15, 2001 -- that bar private family planning groups that get federal funds from spending any money to provide abortions or promote abortion rights in other countries. The move is both a gamble that Gov. George W. Bush will win the presidency and reverse much of what Congress just did and an effort to avoid a high-profile pre-election confrontation with President Clinton, who promised a veto if the restrictions remained. A1
 
Effort to Counter Nader Effect
The Democratic Party and its allies in the labor, environmental and women's movements, concerned that Ralph Nader has become a major threat to Vice President Al Gore's ability to win the presidency, are mounting aggressive campaigns in swing states to dissuade liberal voters from supporting Mr. Nader, the Green Party candidate. A1
 
Texas Test Scores Challenged
A RAND Corporation study questioned the validity of rising student test scores in Texas. Aides to Gov. George W. Bush sought to discredit the findings; the Gore campaign and its supporters seized on them to attack Governor Bush on his signature issue, education. A23
 
Doctor Declares Gore Fit
Vice President Al Gore is in excellent health and has not taken a sick day in the last eight years, Mr. Gore and his doctor said in their first full interviews about Mr. Gore's health. The Bush campaign said Gov. George W. Bush would allow his doctor to be interviewed, but the governor himself has so far declined to be interviewed. A22
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Rise in Emergency Room Use
Visits to emergency rooms grew about 3 percent a year from 1997 to 1999 and rose 6 to 8 percent in the last year, despite expectations that the expansion of managed care would curtail emergency room visits. A1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Court Finds No Favoritism In Welfare Contracts
A five-justice appellate panel of the state Supreme Court ruled that Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi overstepped his authority in March, when he rejected $104 million worth of city welfare-to-work contracts after raising what the court called unfounded allegations of corruption. A1
 
Cheap-Labor Settlement
Nearly 200 men and women who were homeless when they took menial dollar-an-hour jobs in the 1990's with two Midtown business improvement districts will receive awards totaling $816,000 tonight, the result of a settlement of a suit over wages. B1
 
Terror Suspect's Plea Rejected
Wadih El-Hage, described as a former aide to Osama bin Laden, asked to plead guilty to charges involving the 1998 embassy bombings in Africa, but the judge rejected the plea. B1
 
Plastic Surgeon Convicted
Dr. Robert Bierenbaum, accused of killing his wife in 1985 and dropping her body into the Atlantic from a plane, was found guilty of second-degree murder by a Manhattan jury. B3
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
EDUCATION B12
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Turmoil at Carnegie Hall
The 109-year-old landmark has been swept by a wave of resignations and firings as its executive director, Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, prepares to present a strategy for change. A1
 
SPORTS D1-14
 
Mets Close the Gap
The Mets beat the Yankees, 4-2, in Game 3 of the World Series. The Yankees lead the series, 2-1. D1
 
Roger Clemens was fined $50,000 for throwing a bat near Mike Piazza. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Big Sale at Xerox
Xerox, which lost money in most of its businesses this quarter, will sell pieces of most of its operations. C1
 
Details on AT&T Breakup
AT&T's board met to discuss details of its plan to spin off its cable television and wireless communications units and create a stock to track its consumer long-distance unit. C1
 
U.S.-Jordan Trade Pact
President Clinton and King Abdullah of Jordan signed a free trade agreement that commits both countries to safeguarding worker rights and the environment. C1
 
Unions and Temporary Labor
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., plans to lead a march in Tacoma, Wash., on a little-known company that supplies temporary blue-collar workers, a sign that labor sees such businesses as a threat to unions and their members. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
DINING F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Bob Franks for the Senate; in the land of Kim Jong Il; baseball in broad daylight.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E8
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D13
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); VETO (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); US GREEN PARTY (63%); ABORTION (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RALPH NADER (79%); KIM JONG IL (73%); AL GORE (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



662 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
WESTCHESTER: AIRPORT ROAD TRUCE -- Westchester County and Greenwich, Conn., declared a truce yesterday over a small road near the Westchester County Airport. In January, Greenwich closed westbound traffic on Gateway Lane, a popular shortcut to the airport, forcing Greenwich residents to look for alternate routes. Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County executive, retaliated by erecting signs inviting drivers to complain about Greenwich. After several months of meetings, the two sides agreed to reopen the road as long as weight limits were placed on nearby roads to discourage trucks, and Gateway Lane was narrowed to limit speeding. Westchester agreed to remove its signs. David W. Chen (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: CHARGES DISMISSED IN PARK ATTACK -- A Manhattan judge dismissed sexual abuse and robbery charges yesterday against two men who were arrested in attacks on women in Central Park after the Puerto Rican Day Parade in June. An assistant district attorney, Maxine Rosenthal, told the judge there was little videotaped evidence against the two men, Tremayne Bain, 24, of Hempstead, N.Y., and David Rowe, 24, of Brooklyn. Katherine E. Finkelstein (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: SUBWAY STATION REPAIRS -- A $26 million renovation is scheduled to begin soon at the East 86th Street and Lexington Avenue subway station, where the lighting is poor and flooding has caused structural damage. State Senator Roy M. Goodman and E. Virgil Conway, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said yesterday that the four-year project at the station, one of the busiest in the city with 64,000 passengers daily, is the first of 64 station renovations. Susan Saulny (NYT)
 
QUEENS: MODIFIED FOOD CRITICIZED -- Environmental and consumer groups testified at a public hearing yesterday on a possible statewide ban on genetically modified foods. They cited last month's Taco Bell recall of products with modified corn that had been approved only for animal consumption. "The Taco Bell scandal shows that the federal regulations aren't working and that's why we need the state to step in," Andy Zimmerman, a coordinator for the New York Biotech Action Network, said in an interview. Food companies say modification increases crop yields and poses no danger to humans. The State Assembly is considering a five-year ban on genetically modified crops. Tara Bahrampour (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: ALGERIAN TERROR TRIAL -- A judge ruled yesterday that statements to authorities made by an Algerian accused of helping smuggle explosives into the United States could be used at his trial because they had been given voluntarily. The ruling by Judge John F. Keenan of Federal District Court came after a hearing during which the Algerian, Abdel Ghani Meskini, 32, described his interviews with the authorities after he was arrested in Brooklyn on Dec. 30. Mr. Meskini and Mokhtar Haouari, another Algerian, who was arrested in Canada and brought to the United States for trial, are charged with conspiring since 1997 to support a terrorist group. (AP)
 
MANHATTAN: CONNECTION TROUBLES -- Silicon Alley companies plan to tell the City Council tomorrow that slow installation of high-speed Internet connections and other infrastructure problems are hurting their ability to do business. Alice O'Rourke, the executive director of New York New Media Association, said technology companies based in New york wait six to eight weeks for the installation of high-speed connections at a time when the troubled Internet economy makes quick installation especially critical. (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
TRENTON: CASINO REGULATOR NAMED -- William Sommeling, 64, was named to the state agency that regulates and issues licenses to casinos in Atlantic City. Mr. Sommeling, an undersheriff in Ocean County since 1989, has begun a new five-year term. He fills the vacancy on the five-member commission created in September 1998 when Bradford Smith, the chairman, resigned. Mr. Sommeling has done private surveillance work for the Claridge casino and the former TropWorld, a commission spokesman said yesterday. (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
HARTFORD: DEPRESSION REMOVED FROM SURVEY -- The Connecticut Bar Examining Committee has eliminated, for now, clinical depression from the list of "psychotic disorders" prospective Connecticut lawyers must disclose. The survey is designed to evaluate applicants' "fitness to practice law," Raymond W. Beckwith, chairman of the examining committee, said yesterday. The survey, which must be taken by applicants for the next bar examination in February, asks whether schizophrenia, paranoia or other serious mental illnesses have been diagnosed in the previous five years. The committee wanted to reconsider depression because it is a less-debilitating disorder than others on the list, Mr. Beckwith said. (NYT)
 
STAMFORD: STRIKING JANITORS ARRESTED -- Four striking janitors and a union official were arrested Monday evening after they sat in the street near the train station to bring attention to the janitors' push for higher wages and health insurance. The police accused them of obstructing traffic, which is punishable by up to 90 days in jail. The janitors, among more than 300 Fairfield County janitors who are on strike, say their wages of $6.15 an hour are too low to support a family. The janitors and the official with the Service Employees International Union were released without bail. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
CALENDAR
 
Today
 
SEXUAL ASSAULT LAW -- City Council considers urging the New York Legislature to create a new criminal charge of "gang sexual assault." Committee Room, second floor, City Hall, Manhattan, 10 am. Information: 212-788-6850.
 
SECURITY GUARDS AT HOSPITALS -- The City Council has scheduled a hearing on the Health and Hospitals Corporation's plan to privatize security guards at the city's hospitals. Council Chambers, City Hall, Manhattan, 1 p.m.. Information: 212-788-6856.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (89%); JUDGES (89%); ARRESTS (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (71%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); AGRICULTURE (67%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (63%); ROBBERY (54%); PRODUCT RECALLS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM SOMMELING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



663 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE EDUCATION ISSUE;
Study Casts Doubt on Texas Test Scores, and Gives the Democrats Ammunition

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 24

 BODY:
A new study questioning the validity of rising student test scores in Texas roiled the presidential race today as aides to Gov. George W. Bush sought to discredit the findings while the campaign of Vice President Al Gore and other Democrats used them to attack Mr. Bush on his signature issue, education.
The study, issued by the RAND Corporation, a research organization in Santa Monica, Calif., found that Texas students had demonstrated greater improvement in recent years on the state's Texas Assessment of Academic Skills exam than on the leading national assessment test. The report said these "stark differences" in performance raised "serious questions" about the credibility of the state test as a meaningful gauge of academic progress. 
 The report also found that the achievement gap between white and minority students grew on the national test from 1994 to 1998, even as it narrowed on state test results.
The report speculated that the state test scores might have been artificially inflated by, among other things, a practice known in educational circles as teaching to the test, or drilling that helps students prepare for specific types of questions but does not result in real learning.
Mr. Bush has made education a centerpiece of his campaign, regularly boasting about the rising test scores in his state, including among black and Hispanic students, as he portrays Texas as a national leader.
Outside a suburban Chicago middle school where Mr. Bush campaigned today, Karen P. Hughes, the campaign communications director, called the new findings biased and "dead wrong." Ms. Hughes noted that other studies, including a larger July report by RAND, have portrayed Texas students in a good light, particularly in math.
The "indisputable independent data all show without a doubt that Texas leads the nation when it comes to improving student performance," said Ms. Hughes, who also described the release of the report so close to Election Day as "highly suspect."
Mr. Gore's running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, said the RAND study showed that Mr. Bush had overstated the progress made by Texas students during his tenure.
"We all hope and pray for miracles, but they are not occurring in the Texas school system," Mr. Lieberman said in a conference call with reporters.
The reaction to the study reverberated at the headquarters of RAND, which has contended throughout its 52-year history as an independent organization that it is not influenced by partisan politics. The group not only found itself in the awkward position of explaining how two of its own studies had seemingly reached opposite conclusions but also of justifying the timing of the latest report.
"If we had sat on it and held it until after the election, we would have been slammed for that," said a RAND spokesman, Jess Cook, noting that the release followed the organization's policy.
In an unusual step, RAND's president and chief executive, James A. Thomson, citing the "intense controversy, as we expected," issued a statement endorsing the findings in the study released today and the July report cited by the Bush campaign. In doing so, he rebutted Ms. Hughes's claim that the July report officially carried the RAND imprimatur but not today's smaller study, which is technically called an Issue Paper.
"We stand behind the quality of both this paper and of our July report," Mr. Thomson said.
He also emphasized that while the new study "suggests a less positive picture of Texas education" than the July report, the two are not actually in "sharp conflict."
The two RAND reports both used the National Assessment of Educational Progress, the nation's leading standardized assessment exam, as a barometer of academic achievement. The studies had some overlap, but essentially had different scopes and methodologies. They agree that Texas students have improved on the national test during the 1990's, as have students in most states.
Yet there is disagreement as to whether Texas students surpassed or lagged behind their peers across the nation in terms of progress.
The 300-page July report, written chiefly by David Grissmer, a RAND scholar, was the larger of the two studies. It grouped students in 44 states by socio-economic status and compared them to their peers based on scores on the national exam from 1990 to 1996.
The study found that in many categories, Texas students ranked high nationally, particularly in fourth-grade math. In fact, black fourth graders in Texas made bigger gains than their peers in every state on the math portion of the national test in 1996, according to the Grissmer study. The Bush campaign immediately embraced the findings. Laura Bush even mentioned the study in her address to the Republican National Convention.
The RAND study released today, at 14 pages, was chiefly written by another RAND scholar, Stephen P. Klein. Using broader categories of race but not economic status, the study examined the gains made by Texas fourth and eighth graders on the national test in reading in 1994 and 1998 as well as in math in 1992 and 1996. It agreed that Texas fourth graders outperformed their peers nationally in math, but found that otherwise student improvement was about average for the nation.
Unlike the July report, the new study compared the scores on the national test with student performance on the standardized Texas exam, which serves as Texas' principal measuring stick for academic progress. Looking at scores on the Texas test in 1994 and 1998, the study found strikingly large gains in scores, including by minorities. By contrast, the student gains on the national exam were far smaller. And the gap between whites and minorities on the national test grew larger rather than smaller for fourth graders in reading, and for fourth and eighth graders in math.
"The gains are so much larger on the T.A.A.S. than the N.A.E.P. that you start asking questions about what is going on with the T.A.A.S.," Mr. Klein said.
The study offered no concrete explanation for the scoring differences but speculated that it could be the result of teachers in Texas "devoting a great deal of class time to highly specific T.A.A.S. preparation."
The Gore campaign said the second RAND report was more significant because it included scores from the middle of Mr. Bush's tenure in 1998. Mr. Bush took office in 1995.
Amy Wilkins, a policy analyst at Education Trust, a liberal group that has praised the Texas system, said Texas was not the only state where gains on the national exam did not match those on state tests. She agreed that Texas lagged in reading but argued that the state ranked among national leaders for improvement on math and writing.
"Something must be going right in these schools," Ms. Wilkins said.
In Washington, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, and Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, pounced on the study and questioned whether Mr. Bush had exaggerated his record, as his campaign aides have accused Mr. Gore of doing.
"What Governor Bush has run his whole campaign on is now found to be an exaggeration," Mr. Gephardt said outside the White House. "The students in Texas did not have better scores on the tests than other students around the country."
Mr. Daschle added: "Well, as Dick said, I think really the so-called Texas miracle," referring to the nickname that some education groups have given Texas, "is nothing more than a tall Texas tale." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP RAND CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (89%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



664 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Emergency Room, to Many, Remains the Doctor's Office

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Of the many goals of the managed care revolution, few had as much resonance as the push to get people out of the nation's emergency rooms.
With health maintenance organizations, everyone was supposed to have a primary care doctor who would manage routine aches and pains. Preventive care would stave off emergencies like acute asthma attacks, and better use of family doctors would help make emergency room business dwindle. 
 It has not worked that way. Visits to emergency rooms grew about 3 percent a year from 1997 to 1999 and have risen 6 to 8 percent in the last year, a figure that was expected to continue, said an emergency doctors' group.
The reasons are similar to those behind other problems in health care: the lack of access to primary care doctors among the poorest Americans and a large number of Americans who are without insurance, often because of higher premiums. In addition, there are those who simply find the emergency room more convenient.
In New York City, three out of four visits to an emergency room are for nonemergencies, according to a new study by the Commonwealth Fund, a private philanthropic organization.
The promises of primary care have been dashed in large part, health care experts said, because insurance reimbursements for primary care doctors are so low that too few are willing to be in the field or to extend themselves to late hours or weekends when emergency care is required.
"The situation is grave," said Dr. Michael Gerardi, a spokesman for the emergency doctors' group, American College of Emergency Physicians. "We are a symptom of the disease that is the health care system."
In many areas of the country, especially in cities with large numbers of uninsured, emergency rooms are being crushed under the increased volume and patient care is often compromised, doctors said.
"We are not adapting very well," said Dr. Daniel Higgins, the medical director of emergency service at St. Francis Medical Center in Lynwood, Calif., where 27 percent of the patients are uninsured and emergency room visits have risen 13 percent in five years.
But in regions where hospitals still compete for business, like New York City, and in areas with large numbers of insured residents, emergency rooms are learning to accept and even welcome the increased patient load. Hospitals are making emergency rooms feel like a private doctor's office where waits are short, coffee is pouring and the first question a patient hears is about their condition rather than their payment method.
"Five years ago there was all this talk about inappropriate uses of the E.R.," said Dr. Dan Wiener, chairman of emergency medicine at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. "All we were focused on was how to get them out. Now we are looking at how to give these patients better service."
The emergency department is economically complicated. It is the entree for large numbers of patients for most hospitals -- about 52 percent on average in New York and as many as 80 percent in some hospitals. In addition, a hospital routinely earns more from an emergency room visit than from one to a clinic.
But doctors and hospital executives said that insurance companies have gradually lowered payments for visits to emergency rooms, often resorting to what is known in H.M.O. argot as "downcoding," or paying for the diagnosis -- say, indigestion -- rather than the medical tests to reach that conclusion -- say, tests for a heart attack.
A patients' bill of rights, which is lingering in Congress, would make this practice illegal; insurance company executives insisted that it was more often the result of poor billing practices by hospitals than anything sinister on their part.
Uninsured patients have little choice but to get even the most routine care in emergency rooms, which by law must treat every patient who shows up. The number of uninsured Americans rose by an average of more than a million a year from 1987 to 1998 until it declined last year, according to Census Bureau figures.
"A good one-third of our population is uninsured so we would not expect any change in utilization with that group," said Virginia Hastings, the director of the Los Angeles County Emergency Medical Services Agency.
Danyelle Lee was one such person. The other day, she took her 2-year-old son, Cartier, to St. Luke's in Manhattan because he had diarrhea. She was so accustomed to getting care that way that she has almost stopped thinking about it, she said.
"I would like him to see just one person," Ms. Lee said, "but they are friendly and nice here, so for now it's cool."
In the presidential campaign, Vice President Al Gore has hammered at Gov. George W. Bush's problems with the uninsured in Texas. In the second debate, Mr. Bush said: "We've spent $4.7 billion a year in the state of Texas for uninsured people. And they get health care. Now, it's not the most efficient way to get people health care," likely an allusion to the emergency rooms.
As it is, many primary care clinics are having trouble staying afloat and new clinics are not opening as quickly as hoped. The costs of running the clinics have started to exceed revenues since government funding has been reduced, managed care has become dominant and many patients have moved off Medicaid as a result of welfare reform. Doctors routinely complain that they are reimbursed in the area of, say, $12 for a pediatric visit.
Many hospitals that run their own clinics do so at a loss.
"The reimbursement in primary care is pathetic," said Jeff Spartz, the chief executive officer of Hennepin County Medical Center, a public hospital in Minneapolis. "It really frustrates us because we would like to be aggressive about prevention and early intervention, but the financing doesn't work."
As such, there remains a lack of access to doctors in some of the poorest urban and most rural areas.
In New York, the Commonwealth Fund found that the greatest number of people using the emergency room for primary care tended not to be those with the worst insurance, but those who lived in the poorest neighborhoods, where there were few doctors and more language and cultural barriers.
One of the study's authors, John Billings, said patients were frustrated with long waits and inaccessible doctors.
"Patients are not happy with the primary care delivery system," said Mr. Billings, director of the Center for Health and Public Service Research at New York University. "The hours are no good, waits are too long, and the people are rude. We have designed a health care delivery system more or less for the convenience of the system not the patients."
Often, even people who have doctors prefer to use the emergency room.
"I have done it myself," said Ms. Hastings in Los Angeles. "It is easier than talking to two or three nurses on the phone who then decide whether you get to talk to a doctor or not. You know the E.R. is there, that the doctor is there. I think in health care, it is the one thing the public knows they can count on."
Dr. Charles M. Cutler, the chief medical officer for the American Association of Health Plans, a trade group representing managed care companies, said that claims of poor reimbursement were overstated and doctors were paid for the services they provided, not at a flat per-patient fee.
"So I don't buy the argument that there is no financial incentive," Dr. Cutler said.
Some hospitals are actually trying to capitalize on the increase in emergency room visits.
When St. Luke's in Manhattan saw that it was losing emergency room patients to other hospitals, it decided to do something. The hospital found that more than 7 percent of patients were walking out because they had to wait too long. So several steps in the admission process were streamlined to cut the wait.
The hours of a clinic within the emergency room were extended to speed care to nonurgent patients. Patients also go almost immediately to a bed, and an administrator will come to them to get insurance information, rather than have that person be the first stop.
Patients are now covered by a team of doctors and nurses rather than by a system of catch as catch can. The wait to see a doctor at St. Luke's has been reduced to 22 minutes from an hour and 15 minutes, while patient volume has risen 10.3 percent. If there is no X-ray technician, one is called from the main hospital.
"In this city, you have to be out there as being the best at something," said Claudia Caine, senior vice president of operations for St. Luke's. "We decided this is ours."
Many hospitals are actually marketing their emergency departments. At Oakwood Hospital and Medical Center in Dearborn, Mich., patients are given free movie passes if they have to wait more than 30 minutes, even as volume has increased. At Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, patients are assigned to advocates who help them cope with nonmedical problems, like finding family members or even someone to walk the dog.
Faster service to nonemergencies has also become a priority.
"A very major trend right now is to segregate those patients who have urgent illnesses," said Dr. Michael Carius, vice president of the American College of Emergency Physicians.
The Hennepin County Medical Center has gone in another direction, using a $900,000 federal grant to help keep nonurgent patients from having to rely on the emergency room, which, unlike the suburban counterparts, does not want more patients. The center offered a nurse triage line, and had workers doing outreach to help people get insurance and into primary care clinics.
"We are trying to work with the neighborhood clinics," said Mr. Spartz, the chief executive. "They are often not recognized as part of the safety net and if they go out of business it is a big problem for us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many emergencies rooms, including the one at St. Francis Medical Center in Lynwood, Calif., are trying to cope with a growing number of patients. (Kim Kulish/Saba for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH FUND

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HOSPITALS; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; DOCTORS PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (95%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); FAMILY PRACTICE (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); CHARITIES (66%); ASTHMA (57%); PHILANTHROPY (52%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



665 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Seoul and Tokyo Are Ready For Albright's Report on Trip

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 24

 BODY:
When Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright arrives here on Wednesday to brief her South Korean and Japanese counterparts on her ground-breaking visit to North Korea, behind their smiles and obligatory congratulations, they will also have serious questions.
Already there have been signs of concern in both countries, the United States' closest Asian allies, that the breakthrough could upset South Korea's own diplomacy with the North and make the possibility that Japan will obtain satisfaction on its longstanding grievances toward North Korea even more remote. 
 The disparate displays of public enthusiasm and private concern about Dr. Albright's trip, and about a possible visit by President Clinton, vividly illustrate the awkward geometry of diplomacy, even among close allies, in northeastern Asia.
Each partner is eager to see North Korea emerge from its cocoon and cease being a threat to stability. But for reasons of domestic politics and priorities, each ally might like to see events unfold in a slightly different sequence. It is a measure of the concern for sequencing and, above all, for avoiding major surprises that present and former officials in Japan and South Korea privately warn against repeating the so-called Nixon shock that they felt when the United States established high-level contacts with China nearly 30 years ago.
For South Korea, by far the most enthusiastic about engagement with the North since President Kim Dae Jung took office more than two years ago, a quickly arranged visit by Mr. Clinton is being discussed as North Korea has frozen substantive cooperation with the South on a series of recent agreements.
On Monday, Mr. Kim's office issued a statement saying, "Inter-Korean and North Korea-U.S. relations are mutually complementary, and an improvement in one has the effect of boosting the other."
But given that it was Mr. Kim who started the ball rolling by pushing hard to bring the two longtime enemies into closer contact, the dramatic improvement in North Korea's relationship with the United States is reviving fears in foreign policy circles here of seeing inter-Korean ties relegated to the distant background. Indeed, for years before their summit meeting in June, North Korea had treated South Korean governments as nonentities and insisted on direct negotiations with the United States.
The scant movement by North Korea on issues like regular visits between separated families, military and economic cooperation and a return visit here of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, has become an embarrassment for the South Korean president. Many here fear that North Korea's success in engaging the United States at the highest levels will only worsen things.
"There is that concern among people, because that is the pattern that Pyongyang has been following through the years," Han Seung Joo, a former South Korean foreign minister, said. "Even now, North Korea is not carrying out the promises already made such as on issues like family reunification, economic cooperation, railroad development and on other things. Of course, there has been no progress at all on military issues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) KIM JONG IL (79%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



666 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT;
Factory Workers Fight the Squeeze On Health Benefits

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

DATELINE: RINGTOWN, Pa., Oct. 24

 BODY:
No one goes to work in a clothes-hanger factory to have fun or make a lot of money. The 275-odd employees of the plant that Tyco International acquired here in 1996 earn $5.75 to $9.55 an hour to churn out plastic hangers. In each 8-hour shift, just two 15-minute rest periods, plus a 5-minute "water break" are allowed. No lunch. Every other week, they are required to work an extra Saturday.
"The reason people came here was the benefits were good," said Jody Geist, a 13-year veteran who makes $8.93 an hour. "The work was bad. The money wasn't good. But we have a good health insurance plan. And now, that's what they want to take away." 
 The hanger-makers of tiny Ringtown, tucked away in the mountain fastness of central Pennsylvania, are among the dwindling ranks of Americans who still enjoy traditional indemnity health insurance. For a $7.50-a-week premium, all their "ordinary and reasonable" medical bills are paid, and they can go to any doctor they want.
But now, Tyco is leaning on them to give that up and approve a managed care plan that it says could save the unit, A & E Products, $500,000 a year. That might not be a large sum for a Wall Street powerhouse that has bought more than 200 companies in the last eight years and that today announced operating earnings of $1.1 billion on revenue of $7.8 billion. Page C4.
But Tyco's specialty is whipping creaky, old-economy manufacturing companies into shape for the global era, often doubling the profit margins of acquisitions in the first year. And bringing labor costs under control is a key element of that strategy.
The use of managed health care to rein in labor costs is not new. Across the country, nine out of 10 Americans who receive health coverage at work are now enrolled in some form of managed care, and the proportion with indemnity plans has fallen by more than half, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
But to the workers at this faded crossroads deep in Pennsylvania coal country, who are represented by a union in Philadelphia that their own shop steward criticizes as ineffectual, Tyco's methods come across as particularly heavy-handed. In essence, the company has told them that they must either accept managed care or undergo mass layoffs.
Unless they change their health coverage, they have been told, only 60 of them will still have jobs by December. The plant might even close.
"I wasn't expecting these people to be so mean and cold," said Dianne Mourer, a 28-year employee who saw four other managements come and go before Tyco took over. Like other employees, she fears that managed care will make it hard to obtain affordable health care at all, because network doctors can be scarce in these remote hills and hollows.
A Tyco spokeswoman said she could understand that the hanger-makers might feel pressured. "But there is pressure on the company, too, just from the dynamics of the industry we operate in," said the spokeswoman, Judith Czelusniak, who was willing only to discuss the situation in broad terms, citing the unsettled labor dispute.
The company's problems elicit little sympathy from Ms. Mourer, however. To make ends meet, she works 12-hour shifts several days each week, making $9.55 an hour, plus overtime, loading hangers onto shipping pallets.
"Being that it's a big corporation, I was expecting that we'd have to pay a little more on our insurance," she said. "But I was also expecting a little more on our paychecks."
Few shoppers may pause to consider the hangers on the racks of any Gap or Kmart, but those billions of clacking bits of plastic constitute a half-billion dollar business. And through shrewd acquisitions, Tyco has nearly cornered it; retail executives estimate that it commands sales of more than $400 million, or 70 percent to 80 percent of the market.
It was the quest for hanger dominance that brought Tyco to Ringtown. Immigrant labor here once produced coal mining fortunes for the financiers of New York and Philadelphia, but the market for anthracite collapsed after World War II, leaving a landscape of plunging green hills punctuated with ugly abandoned slag heaps.
When mining departed, local officials courted new industry, and secured some of the garment shops that were fleeing high-wage New England and New York. They also landed the hanger factory.
Tyco, which is registered in Bermuda, but has headquarters in Exeter, N.H., made a good first impression on the locals when it bought the factory's parent four years ago. Ms. Mourer notes that a year after that, the company made the Friday after Thanksgiving a paid holiday.
But things took a less benevolent turn in May, when Tyco sent a lawyer and two corporate officials to begin negotiating a new contract to replace the current one, which expires in December. "They told us the very first meeting, 'If it doesn't go the Tyco way, we're shutting down,' " recalled Ms. Mourer, one of five plant workers serving on the negotiating committee. Union officials from Philadelphia were also there, as were the plant manager and an aide. "It wasn't a negotiation at all," she said.
Ms. Czelusniak, the Tyco spokeswoman, said keeping labor costs down was a fitting way to save the company's hanger-manufacturing jobs in the United States. The American garment industry has been moving offshore, she noted, and cost-conscious American retailers have increasingly demanded that overseas makers put the clothes on the the hangers themselves.
In any case, Tyco has been stepping up the pressure since the May meeting. In August, it filed a 60-day notification of mass layoffs in Ringtown, as required by a federal plant-closing law. In mid-October, with the 60-day clock ticking down, it inserted "Dear Employee" letters in employees' pay envelopes, announcing that the contract negotiations had failed and that it had no choice but to make its "final offer."
This consisted of its managed care insurance plan and raises of 60 cents an hour in the first year of a new three-year contract, and 25 cents an hour in each of the next two years. "That is a great deal of money," the letter stated.
The workers did have the option of keeping their existing insurance, but with an increase in their premium that would cancel out all but 3 cents of the overall $1.10 raise.
The letter said the mass layoffs would be rescinded if employees approved the offer but would begin this week if they rejected it.
Labor lawyers in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania's capital, questioned the propriety of timing a mass-layoff notification to coincide with a contract vote. The federal law is supposed to help workers deal with layoffs by giving them time to find new jobs or negotiate sweeter severance deals, they said, not intimidate them.
"This sounds like it's being used to scare people," said Irwin Aronson, counsel to the Pennsylvania A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Harrisburg. "There's a certain category of employer that feels it's appropriate to use the statutes enacted as a shield to protect the workers as a sword against them."
The company declined to respond.
If that was the intent, it didn't work. Last week, the hanger-makers rejected the proposal.
Within days, a new "Dear Employee" letter went out. It said the vote would be held all over again.
"There shouldn't be another vote," said Ms. Geist, who also serves as a local shop steward. "When a contract gets voted down, it gets voted down. Then you go and negotiate it again. You don't just throw the same contract back at the people for another vote."
The company said a new vote was appropriate because only about half of the work force turned out for the first one. Ms. Geist said that was because a higher proportion of the workers were Mexicans of questionable legal status and didn't want to do anything that would call attention to themselves, including voting.
Indignant, she called the union that represents the workers, a division of Seafarers International, and told an official, Rob Wisler, that she wanted him to file a complaint to the National Labor Relations Board.
"He said, 'It's good to have the vote and get it over with,' " Ms. Geist recalled. "I said, 'Well, it's good for you guys because you don't have to live here and work here.' " She tried circulating a petition against the second vote, but Mr. Wisler told her to stop, she said. He could not be reached for comment.
Now Ms. Geist is wondering why she paid her union dues of $14 a month all those years. "They're just hanging us out to dry," she said. "I don't know, really, where to turn."
A spokesman at Seafarers International in Camp Springs, Md., said the union had done all it could against a profitable company bent on wringing concessions out of its workforce.
"We showed up at all the meetings. We bargained in good faith. I don't see any lack of representation," said the spokesman, who asked not be identified because he had not been at the bargaining table himself.
Last Friday, the hanger-makers voted a second time. Again, they rejected Tyco's "final offer." Now they are waiting for their layoff slips.
Despite the clear majority against the new contract, a few dissenting employees blame Ms. Geist, saying that if there are mass layoffs, it will be her fault.
Meantime, some workers have applied for jobs at other companies that have moved into the region, including big processing and distribution centers for companies like Wal-Mart and Kmart. The hanger-makers say these places pay a little more but do not offer what they really want: traditional health insurance.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jody Geist is a union shop steward at Tyco's clothes-hanger factory in Ringtown, Pa., which still has an indemnity health plan. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. C1); As part of its acquisition spree, Tyco bought A & E Products in 1996. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Chart: "Managing Health Coverage"
As companies seek to control costs, enrollment in traditional indemnity health insurance plans has plummeted.
 
Graph shows percentage of employees enrolled in each type of health care plan, traditional, H.M.O., and other managed care figures from 1993-99.
 
(Source: William M. Mercer Inc.)(pg. C1)
 
Chart
Tyco International has grown, mainly through acquisitions, to be a conglomerate of some 40 operations, under five divisions in more than 100 countries.
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE: L. Dennis Kozlowski
HEADQUARTERS: Exeter, N.H.
EMPLOYEES: 182,000
 
Graph shows sales and net income from 1996-2000.
(Source: Company reports)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (73%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL CO; A&E PRODUCTS TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: TYCO INTERNATIONAL CO; A&E PRODUCTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (88%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS DIANNE MOURER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



667 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: 3rd Party Lament: Anyone Listening?;
It's Not Easy Being Green. Or Libertarian or Socialist.

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
It is a pretty safe bet that Mark J. Dunau is the only New York candidate in the Senate race who has an organic salad at a Manhattan restaurant named in his honor. He is without a doubt the only candidate who lives in a barn where the bathroom has curtains for walls and the guest quarters are known as the Love Shack. And he alone sees political capital in boasting that Click and Clack of public radio's "Car Talk" once broadcast a question about his old Suburban.
Mr. Dunau is the Green Party candidate for Senate, one of six people other than Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio who want to represent New York in the Senate. If Mrs. Clinton shared some of Mr. Dunau's peculiarities -- or, for that matter, embraced his 23-page manifesto, which calls for the legalization of marijuana, a cap on credit card interest rates and a ban on spreading sewage sludge on farmlands -- it would be a sensation from Buffalo to Bombay. 
 But Mr. Dunau, 48, is a playwright-turned-organic-farmer, not a first-lady-turned-top-dog-political-contender. Like the other so-called third party candidates in the race, Mr. Dunau takes himself seriously and is impatiently waiting for most other New Yorkers to do the same.
"My issues of sustenance are dead on," Mr. Dunau said recently from behind the wheel of his beat-up delivery truck, loaded with 24 coolers of greens, roots and squash grown on his farm in Delaware County and destined for restaurant and catering-service kitchens in Manhattan and Brooklyn. "But I am dubious about whether I will have enough money for a radio campaign. I've already borrowed $3,000 on a credit card at 9.9 percent interest."
The attention deficit in this Senate race extends well beyond Mr. Dunau. Even Mr. Lazio, the Republican nominee, complains of being at a disadvantage because of Mrs. Clinton's blinding celebrity. (Who has not heard of the first lady?)
But Mr. Lazio (he has nonetheless raised more than $29 million to her $25 million) can expect no sympathy from the cast of larger unknowns on the Nov. 7 ballot, who include the radio talk show host Jeffrey E. Graham of the Independence Party (the third largest party in the state) and the would-be revolutionary Jacob J. Perasso of the Socialist Workers Party. The party offers no membership numbers. Mr. Perasso says it is not looking for votes, but to overthrow greedy capitalists.
"One of the reasons we don't get coverage as much is because we sometimes express hostile attitudes toward the media," said John Clifton, a social worker from Jamaica, Queens, the Libertarian Party candidate, whose favorite campaign themes are expanding personal liberty and limiting government. "We think the media, along with the Democratic and Republican Parties, are often representatives of an established order that has a tilt toward the maintenance of the status quo."
Mr. Clifton, 41, is running his statewide bid for office on a budget of $10,000. That is more than most of the other third party contenders have, but at last count, it amounted to only one-2,500th of what Mrs. Clinton has raised and one-2,900th of Mr. Lazio's bankroll. In February, Mrs. Clinton spent more than Mr. Clifton's entire campaign budget on stuffed mushrooms, shrimp, pasta and other Italian specialties for a fund-raiser catered by Joey's, a restaurant in Syracuse.
Trying to make his dollars last longer, Mr. Clifton has found a cheap Internet-based toll-free telephone service. Mr. Clifton said a toll-free number (his is 877-407-5493) adds heft to a candidacy, but in his case, callers rarely get more than a brief recording proclaiming "peace and freedom" and asking them to please leave a message. It is not uncommon for candidate Clifton to take days to get back to the callers.
Mr. Clifton says that he and most of the other Senate contenders cannot afford to skip their day jobs or hire a staff for their campaigns. It is a case of real people versus professional politicians, he and the other challengers assert.
"I did get a two-week stretch of vacation this month, but it was not feasible to get more time off," said Mr. Clifton, who is the communications manager for a nonprofit group, Services for the Underserved, in Bedford-Stuyvesant. "I am hoping to achieve what I need to through interviews, the Web site and weekend appearances."
Mr. Dunau, the Green Party candidate, can book no appointments on Mondays or Tuesdays because he must harvest his vegetables and haul them to New York City. In the primary, when he beat Al Lewis (better known as Grandpa in "The Munsters" television series) and the political writer Ronnie Dugger, he walked the length of Long Island to attract attention. It took him three weeks because he needed to make frequent working trips back to the farm.
Mr. Dunau's 12-year-old son, Bera, pitches in when he can, fielding questions from a visiting reporter and joining his father on the picket line (Mr. Dunau seems to protest more than most, especially when he and the others were excluded from the Clinton-Lazio debates).
But Bera (who is named for the Hindu god of protection) is usually too busy studying the encyclopedia and other thick books as part of his home schooling at their Hancock farm to become too invested in his father's candidacy.
"I am a self-employed family farmer, who with his wife supports two children by growing and selling organic vegetables," Mr. Dunau says in one of his favorite stump speeches. "Rick Lazio and and Hillary Clinton are corporate lawyers. New York needs a corporate lawyer as its next U.S. senator like it needs a hole in the head."
Mr. Graham, 45, a former mayor of Watertown who owns two taverns and is host of a daily radio talk show, had to interrupt an interview recently to help out behind the counter when a rush of after-work customers overwhelmed his downtown Watertown establishment.
Business is business, he explained apologetically, especially in an upstate town still waiting for signs of the Clinton-Gore economic boom. Mr. Graham makes a lot of his upstate credentials -- he and Mr. Dunau are the only candidates not from New York City or its suburbs -- and the inability of either major party to achieve much there.
But even in upstate New York, it is tough to attract attention from Watertown, or in Mr. Graham's case, the right kind of attention. He recently made the six-hour trip to Westchester County at the invitation of the N.A.A.C.P., only to be turned away at the front door.
The group had meant to invite Larry O. Graham, a Democratic candidate for Congress from Westchester County, he was told. But Mr. Graham persisted and eventually got two minutes to speak about his main themes of promoting political reform, cutting taxes and protecting individual rights.
John O. Adefope, 34, the candidate of the Right to Life Party, works as a telephone company design engineer to support his wife and three children in Brooklyn. He barely finds time to give interviews or do much campaigning, though he expects to take some vacation during the final days of the race to attend candidates forums and travel upstate.
Mr. Adefope is running a "back to the family" campaign that calls for an end to abortion, the introduction of prayer in public schools and renewed patriotism. He has also proposed a ballot initiative that would allow a two-thirds majority of states to bypass Congress and pass federal laws.
"I think the average American has been left out of the political process," Mr. Adefope said. "If you don't vote what you believe, then you won't get what you want."
Mr. Perasso of the Socialist Workers Party works nights at a print shop for the alternative press in the Bronx, putting him in bed when most other candidates are at least thinking about wooing voters during the daytime.
But skipping the job is out of the question. Mr. Perasso depends on his weekly salary of $200, and, he says, he is more committed to getting into broader circulation books by Malcolm X, Che Guevara and his other favorite authors at the print shop than he is in scoring campaign points.
Shortly after graduating from college in Santa Cruz, Calif., in 1998, Mr. Perasso worked 11 months at a slaughterhouse in Chicago so that he could better understand the hardships of assembly line workers. His most ambitious campaign swing to date was to Australia and New Zealand, where he joined workers on picket lines and did radio interviews in support of "an international revolutionary movement."
He sees no contradiction in campaigning half a world away, he says, because the workers' cause knows no borders.
"We believe the history of the working class movement is so crucial to the building of our movement," said Mr. Perasso, 24, who moved last summer to the Bronx from Detroit (more meatpacking jobs there) and who would like to see the United States follow the model of Fidel Castro's Cuba. "If there were no books, I don't believe a socialist revolution could happen."
Only Louis P. Wein, who is suing New York City over a $300 million development proposal he led in Staten Island that recently went sour, can take to the road full time as the nominee of the Constitution Party.
A Republican, Mr. Wein is positioning himself as the "true conservative" in the race, emphasizing his antiabortion stance, his opposition to gun control and his Republican credentials (his resume says he was a special consultant on antipoverty programs in the Nixon administration). He says Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton are exactly alike: liberals.
But even Mr. Wein, who ran for governor in 1990 on the Right to Life line, has little money to spend on his candidacy, which he says is really a primer for a run for governor in two years.
"I lost all of my wealth in this deal with the city," said Mr. Wein, 59, of Staten Island. "I have under $10,000 for the campaign. But I've traveled 2,000 miles in the last weeks around the state giving speeches and press conferences."
In the end, with the odds against them, Mr. Wein and the others are counting on the sentiments of people like Brian Begeal, a dairy farmer in Delaware County, to make sure their candidacies are not rendered irrelevant.
Mr. Begeal lives down the road from Mr. Dunau, the Green candidate, and early one recent morning, while milking his cows, Mr. Begeal said he had not made up his mind about the election but was clear about one thing: He had no intention of voting for Mrs. Clinton or Mr. Lazio.
"I'd rather vote against someone than for someone," Mr. Begeal said.
Mr. Dunau, who is counting on Mr. Begeal's vote, acknowledged that his neighbor's backhanded endorsement was not the stuff that builds campaigns. But with 1,300 pounds of vegetables to deliver, and seven acres needing to be picked for the next week's harvest, he was not about to quibble.
"Sometimes," he said, "I don't even know if I'm coming or going."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark J. Dunau, left, of the Green Party and Jeffrey E. Graham, below, of the Independence Party are the only candidates in the eight-person United States Senate race not from New York City or its suburbs.; The primary campaign themes of John Clifton, left, of the Libertarian Party are expanding personal liberty and limiting government. (Edward Keating/The New York Times (top); Peter R. Barber for The New York Times (above)); (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Third Party Candidates"
John O. Adefope
Party: Right to Life
Hometown: Brooklyn
Profession: Telephone company design engineer
Web site: www.johnadefope.com (under construction)
Main issues: End abortions; end wage taxes on minimum-wage workers; impose mandatory labeling on violent and sexually explicit movies and CDs; allow prayer in public schools
 
John Clifton
Party: Libertarian
Hometown: Queens
Profession: Social worker
Web site: www.clifton2000.com
Main issues: End all taxation; repeal gun control legislation; end drug prohibitions; stop overseas interventions
 
Name: Mark J. Dunau
Party: Green
Hometown: Hancock
Profession: Organic farmer
Web site: www.dontsubmit.com
Main issues: Limit and label irradiated food; prohibit the spreading of sewage sludge on farms; limit taxes on the self-employed; lift marijuana ban
 
Jeffrey E. Graham
Party: Independence
Hometown: Watertown
Profession: Business owner
Web site: www.jeffgraham.org
Main issues: Change trade policy and milk policy to benefit upstate farmers; oppose gun control legislation; push for political reform, including same-day voter registration; revamp the tax code
 
Jacob J. Perasso
Party: Socialist Workers
Hometown: The Bronx
Profession: Book binder
Web site: www.themilitant.com/campaign/
Main issues: Stop the exploitation of the working class by big business; build an international movement of workers; empower immigrant laborers
 
Louis P. Wein
Party: Constitution
Hometown: Staten Island
Profession: Businessman
Web site: www.weinsenate.com
Main issues: End abortions and restrictions on gun ownership; restrict government and business access to information on citizens; eliminate restrictions on campaign donations but require full disclosure of contributors
(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) DELAWARE COUNTY REAL ESTATE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); US GREEN PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (73%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); PUBLIC RADIO (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CELEBRITIES (66%); CANNABIS (53%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, DEAN E; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); DUNAU, MARK; GRAHAM, JEFF; CLIFTON, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



668 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TEXAS GOVERNOR;
Bush Ridicules Gore's Proposals for Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Oct. 24

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas sought today to make a mockery of his Democratic opponent's proposal for tax cuts, portraying it as a loopy marvel of convolution and asserting that his own, vastly more expensive plan was better.
In remarks in Knoxville, Tenn., this afternoon and in a suburb of Chicago this morning, Mr. Bush said the conditions and qualifications layered into Vice President Al Gore's "targeted" tax cuts would exclude too many taxpayers and give the government too much control over people's lives. 
 "Let me ask you a question," Mr. Bush said to several hundred people inside a school in Arlington Heights, Ill. "How many of you own hybrid electric-gasoline engine vehicles?" His question was met by laughter.
"That's one of the criterion necessary to receive tax relief," he added, referring to an element of Mr. Gore's environment and energy plan that proposes to reward people who buy such vehicles with one-time tax credits of $1,000 to $6,000.
"How many of you own a rooftop photo-voltaic system?" Mr. Bush then asked, ridiculing Mr. Gore's suggested tax credit for people who put solar panels on the roofs of their houses or businesses. "If you had one, you'd get tax relief."
Mr. Bush was selectively homing in on some of the more obscure tax cuts that Mr. Gore has proposed, and he seemed to revel mischievously in doing so. His frisky mood also spilled over into a warning that he issued to President Clinton about getting involved in the campaign.
Answering a question that alluded to Mr. Clinton's affair with a White House intern, he said, "I'm not running against President Clinton."
Mr. Bush stumbled over his next phrases and time references. "That's a chapter -- the last chapter -- of the 20th, 20th, the 21st century that most of us would rather forget," he continued, then corrected himself.
"The last chapter of the 20th century," he said. "This is the first chapter of the 21st century. I don't think there's a lot of politics to be gained by talking about him. As a matter of fact, I think most Americans would rather move on, and that's what I'm going to do."
But, he added, "If he decides he can't help himself, and gets out there and starts campaigning against me, the shadow returns. I may say something in defense of my record."
During a long day that began in Milwaukee and ended here in Jacksonville, Mr. Bush's itinerary reflected both the significant successes and nagging worries of his campaign.
In Wisconsin and Tennessee, he was campaigning in states that were expected to tilt Democratic but have not done so. But Mr. Bush has not built the kind of lead in Florida that many political analysts envisioned, and a rally in Jacksonville tonight was to be followed on Wednesday by a bus trip through the state.
President Clinton, who defeated Mr. Bush's father, former President Bush, in 1992, also seemed to hover over the Jacksonville event. In introducing Mr. Bush, his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of the Florida, talked of the need to elect "someone of integrity, someone of honor and decency."
And then the Texas governor said he and his brother "were raised right." He added, "We were raised by two parents who taught us to tell the truth." With that statement he may have been tying together and tweaking Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, and he went on to deride Mr. Gore as "a man prone to exaggeration."
In an interview tonight on the ABC News program "Nightline," Mr. Bush said he would welcome -- and could capitalize on -- a decision by Mr. Gore to use Mr. Clinton in his campaign.
"It would remind people that my opponent was not standing on his own," Mr. Bush said. "There must be something amiss, if after having stiff-armed a president so to speak, all of a sudden they urge him to come back in the waning days of the campaign."
All day, Mr. Bush, who is grappling with Mr. Gore for undecided swing voters, invited "open-minded Democrats" and independents to support him, and in Arlington Heights, he cast himself as a practical centrist in answers to questions about abortion and gun control.
Although Mr. Bush opposes abortion in most cases, he said, "This is an issue where good people can disagree and still be allies."
But Mr. Bush's chosen focus was on taxes. He is proposing a sweeping cut of an estimated $1.3 trillion over 10 years, and it reduces the rates for taxpayers in every bracket. The largest savings, in raw dollar terms, go to the wealthiest Americans.
Mr. Gore is proposing a cut of $500 billion that principally applies to people in households with annual incomes under $100,000 and is largely delivered through tax credits and deductions for certain spending.
Mr. Bush said the proposal was too selective and intricate.
But Kym Spell, a spokeswoman for the Gore campaign, said, "Maybe a $500 billion tax cut for average working families is too complicated for George W. Bush, but most Americans understand it."
 
In His Own Words
 
GEORGE W. BUSH
Remarks yesterday at the Thomas Middle School in Arlington Heights, Ill.:
"People know we can do better in Washington. People in this state know that there's a better way. People know that we can lift this nation's spirits and achieve what we want to achieve. But I'll tell you what else I hear: that people realize there is a philosophical difference between me and my opponent. There's a big difference between what we believe. The best way to summarize it is this way: I'm running against a man who trusts Washington, D.C., to make decisions on behalf of Illinois folks. He may try to hide from that philosophy, but that's what he believes, if you listen to the policies.
After all, he's a person who wants to increase the size of the federal government, the largest we've seen since the 60's. He wants to increase the size and scope of the federal government more than Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis combined. That's pretty big. He wants to increase the size of the federal government three times more than President Clinton did.
That's a difference of opinion. Perhaps the best way to focus on that difference is to talk about tax relief. The best way to show that I trust the people and he trusts the government is to talk about my tax relief plan.
First, it's important to understand there's a surplus, but the surplus, the projected surplus, will exist after budgets have grown, after, over the next 10 years, the baseline of the budgets are increased and there's still money, which leads me to believe that the people aren't under-taxed. They're overtaxed.
The people of this country pay more in federal, state and local taxes than they do in food, in housing, in clothing. I want you to think about that. We got a tax burden on the working people of this country that is larger than what it takes for the basic necessities to live. That's not right. The percentage of G.D.P. of our taxes is the highest it's been since World War II. "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush greeted children yesterday in a campaign stop at Thomas Middle School in Arlington Heights, Ill. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (88%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; TENNESSEE; KNOXVILLE (TENN); WISCONSIN; MILWAUKEE (WIS); FLORIDA; JACKSONVILLE (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (91%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (88%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (85%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); HYBRID VEHICLES (69%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



669 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Criticizes President on Cancer Bill

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y., Oct. 24

 BODY:
President Clinton is missing an opportunity to promote breast and cervical cancer awareness, Representative Rick A. Lazio said today, by deciding to privately sign a bill that Mr. Lazio had backed.
Speaking to reporters here before touring a breast cancer screening center at a hospital, Mr. Lazio said he believed politics might have influenced the White House's decision not to hold a public bill-signing ceremony. 
 "I think it's a missed opportunity for the president," Mr. Lazio said, standing before a poster promoting breast cancer awareness month. "I don't have to be there at the bill signing if he feels it's not a politically wise thing for him to do. But it is an opportunity for us to promote breast cancer awareness and cervical cancer awareness."
Mr. Lazio, however, said he believed the priority should be for the president to sign the bill, the Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Act, into law. The president did sign the bill sometime today, doing so without ceremony or even a simple announcement by the White House.
The congressman was a leading advocate for the bill as chief sponsor of the original legislation and manager of the debate in the House that led to its approval in May, although Democrats complained that he had lost interest until he surfaced as a Senate candidate that month. Mrs. Clinton, the president said, was also a major advocate for the bill, which authorizes states to provide Medicaid coverage to low-income women whose breast and cervical cancer is diagnosed in free screenings set up under a 1990 law.
Mrs. Clinton, after speaking on the upstate economy in Syracuse, said today that she was not aware of a decision by the White House to forgo a public ceremony.
"I didn't know about the decision until I read about it," Mrs. Clinton told reporters. "The president signs hundreds of bills and they make those decisions. I was also actively involved on behalf of that legislation."
Mr. Lazio has championed his role in the legislation as he seeks to court women.
Mr. Lazio started the day with a "Women for Lazio" event at a convention hall in Syracuse that drew 1,300 women, who paid $20 each to dine on quiche and listen to Mr. Lazio deliver his stump speech for about 45 minutes. In the works for about three weeks, the event produced one of the largest turnouts at any of his campaign events, and Mr. Lazio and his advisers said the size of the audience was a sign of momentum.
"For me, this is a great kickoff for the last two weeks of the campaign," Mr. Lazio told the audience members, who among the usual bumper stickers and fliers also received nail files with Mr. Lazio's campaign logo on them. "To all the people who talk about a gender gap," he added to laughs and applause, "I wish you would please tell your male friends to make sure they're supporting me, would you?"
Mr. Lazio then flew to Buffalo for a campaign stop similar to one Monday in which he deplored Mrs. Clinton's 1993-94 attempt to remake the health care system.
Mr. Lazio does not have a health care plan of his own but favors passing legislation that would provide tax credits to help people pay for their own insurance. Mrs. Clinton released new radio ads in upstate markets to counter ads Mr. Lazio is running there criticizing her health care proposal.
After his event here, he met his obligations as a Mets fan and attended the third game of the World Series at Shea Stadium. Even this was a campaign event; he rode the No. 7 subway to the game with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki -- in the front car with the Mets logo painted on the front. At the game, his campaign aides handed out masks made from a blown-up picture of Mrs. Clinton wearing a Yankee cap as a way to mock her claim to be a Yankee fan.
Traveling in Syracuse and Rochester today, Mrs. Clinton kept a focus on the upstate economy, criticizing Mr. Lazio for what she has said has been his insensitivity to economic troubles upstate. She said her plan for the region would provide lower utility costs, tax incentives and business partnerships with the state and federal government to create jobs.
Mrs. Clinton, speaking to about 75 people at a community college in Syracuse about an hour after Mr. Lazio left, stood before a large poster that highlighted population losses upstate.
"We've lost all this population in the last 10 years," Mrs. Clinton said. "We've kind of gotten ourselves into a bind because, among the people who have left, are young people who are seeking their fortunes elsewhere. We don't have the work force with the skills we need to attract, in a critical mass, some of the new economy, information technology jobs that I think upstate is natural for."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillary Rodham Clinton said that because of population losses, the work force in upstate New York lacks skills to attract technology jobs. (Associated Press); Representative Rick A. Lazio toured a breast cancer screening center in Westchester County. He has been an advocate for the bill, the Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Act, that President Clinton signed yesterday. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CANCER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES CANCER (95%); LEGISLATION (93%); BREAST CANCER (93%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CERVICAL CANCER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (78%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



670 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section H; Page 34; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
A New Lure for Loyal Shoppers: Buy a Little, Save a Little

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
FELICIA GRIFFIN intends to hoard a little holiday cheer for herself this year when she buys gifts. Her strategy is to shop with a select group of online merchants -- those who share a percentage of the purchase price in a rebate that will be invested in a choice of mutual funds.
"This way I can be a consumer and reward myself," said Ms. Griffin, a 34-year-old business-conference planner from Dallas. Since last spring, she has been accumulating shares in a growth mutual fund offered through SaveDaily.com of Irvine, Calif. 
 SaveDaily is among a handful of start-up financial-service companies that are using the Internet to convert shopping loyalty programs into something more substantial than frequent-flier credits. They may also be a tool to draw lower-income households online and into the financial mainstream.
"Isn't it about time, if we're the locomotive of the global economy, that we get something back?" asked Eric A. Solis, the chairman and chief executive of SaveDaily. "If we can get back just 4 percent on our planned consumption, we can double the savings rate."
The notion of using everyday shopping for online microinvesting, of pennies or dollars, is surfacing at a time when politicians and public-policy experts are pushing to provide lower-income and low-saving customers access to financial tools.
"One of the things that stops banks from developing products for this market is because the costs are too high relative to the balances," said Michael A. Stegman, the author of "Saving for the Poor: Hidden Benefits of Electronic Banking."
Whether the account is for check writing, stock trading or mutual funds, the rule of thumb in the financial services industry is that it costs as much to service a $100,000 account as a $1 million account. A result is financial products geared mainly for higher-income people.
"Our competitive advantage is being built from Day 1 to be a very low-cost provider" to small savers, said Mr. Solis, a former financial adviser in Indian Wells, Calif., who grew frustrated at having to turn away advice-seeking friends because they lacked what are considered adequate resources.
By comparison, little is required of SaveDaily's microinvestors, other than a checking account and a credit card.
SaveDaily's site offers its 6,000 clients two ways to invest with its mutual fund partners. Clients can make direct deposits of any amount from their checking accounts by electronic transfer. Or clients can earn retail credits of 1 percent to 10 percent at SaveDaily's 80 retail partners, like J. C. Penney, Barnes & Noble and the Sharper Image. In the last year, SaveDaily clients cumulatively invested about $2 million in funds managed by the Pacific Investment Management Company, or Pimco; Berger Funds; and ING Group. Investors never see a paper statement or a transaction charge, though they are charged an annual fee of 1 percent of assets, comparable to the fees banks charge their best customers.
"It's virtually no cost to us," said Greg A. Bishop, a vice president for Pimco in Newport Beach, Calif., explaining that SaveDaily customers are pooled into a single account. "It's another distribution opportunity," he said. Pimco funds are generally marketed through financial planners and broker-dealers, who charge a fee or a commission, unlike SaveDaily. "If we do our job and deliver good financial results, potentially there's an opportunity for brand building" with SaveDaily customers, he said.
For people who realize they are under-saving, these loyalty rebate programs appear to be a way to start a nest egg without changing one's buying habits. A Citicorp survey showed that 80 percent of the population is interested in saving for either college or for retirement.
Mary L. Bennett, a self-employed recruiter in Redondo Beach, Calif., has retirement accounts elsewhere, but uses SaveDaily as a place to save for quarterly estimated tax payments and a house-buying kitty. "Since it's so easy to put it in and out, that's how I feel it's best utilized," she said.
Yet, with such tiny investments, "a lot of people are going to get discouraged because they won't see very much growth," said Shaw Lively, a financial services analyst for International Data Corporation in Boston. But with a long investment horizon, even a 3 percent rebate off a $100 weekly shopping tab compounded at 8 percent over 15 years amounts to about $8,000. "Providers must put as much or more effort into nurturing a customer as they put into acquiring one," he said.
The challenge, Mr. Lively said, will be to keep customers investing, to have a stable of national merchants in which people will shop and not suffer a nose dive in the stock market. "I think they're well aware a downturn is a risk to their business model," Mr. Lively said, although none of the companies he has looked at have yet to focus on a plan for investor hand-holding and education.
Another risk would come from a competitor who already has high name recognition in either Internet commerce or finance, which could quickly dominate the nascent industry. "If AOL or Fidelity decides to do it, they're dead," Mr. Lively said, referring to SaveDaily. (Fidelity says it wouldn't consider such a rebate plan, but it is making one of its funds available to clients of UPromise.com, a competitor of SaveDaily based in Boston.)
UPromise has a slightly different microinvesting strategy: to help families save for college by accumulating retail rebates online and off-line in a tax-deferred fund. The brainchild of a marketing entrepreneur, Michael Bronner, the site is to be activated in November and expects to be available nationally in the first quarter of 2001. It will adapt the idea of pooling frequent-flier spending credits offered by participating merchants.
Once enrolled, UPromise users can direct their purchase credits from a wide variety of merchants, even grocers and gas stations, into mutual funds managed by Fidelity; Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney; TIAA-Cref, a teachers' pension fund; and Merrill Lynch. Among merchants UPromise has signed up are a computermaker, telephone company and major credit card merchant. Besides getting a rebate from UPromise retailers, customers using the credit card, whose identity UPromise has not disclosed, will get a second rebate from the card company. Customers will also be able to invest cash directly in mutual funds offered through UPromise.
ALTHOUGH college-savings plans, also known as 529 plans, came into law in 1996, they are still little known because of inadequate marketing by the 41 states that offer them, said Liz Carpenter, a UPromise spokeswoman. Yet in a May survey underwritten by UPromise, only 29 percent of parents said they felt prepared to cover the cost of sending their children to college. On average, to send two children to college costs $87,000 for a public college and $189,000 to a private campus, according to the College Board.
"It seems like a good marketing device for their partners, and a nice benefit for consumers who get the rebate tacked onto their college savings account," said Joseph Hurley, a Pittsford, N.Y., accountant who established a Web site, savingforcollege .com, which focuses on 529 plans.
Another wrinkle comes from Customerowner.com and Stockback.com, both sites still under development, which plan to offer e-commerce patrons rebates that are actual shares of a merchant or in a mutual fund.
State Street Global Advisors will manage the proposed fund for patrons of Customerowner.com, which is currently in registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a report by Mr. Lively, the analyst. About 35 retailers, including CVS Pharmacy, Lands' End, Office Max and Sony are offering rebates to Customerowner.com's customers.
Stockback and Customerowner will be attractive to customers with strong retail loyalties, but a drawback is that customers end up with little diversification in their portfolios.
"It's innovative, but is it sustainable?" asked Matt Carrick, a financial services analyst for Gomez Advisors, an Internet research company in Lincoln, Mass. "I'm not sure it can take off without a lot of marketing money," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special E-Commerce section on Oct. 25 about Web sites that let consumers invest small amounts of money in mutual funds referred incorrectly to the status of Stockback.com. It began investing for members in August. It is not under development.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric A. Solis, chairman of SaveDaily.com, which lets people invest shopper rebates. One client, Mary L. Bennett of Redondo Beach, Calif., is saving for tax payments and a home. (Photographs by Jill Connelly for The New York Times); Felicia Griffin of Dallas uses SaveDaily.com to invest in a mutual fund as she shops. (Patty Wood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SHRP (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (60%); TSIC INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SAVEDAILY CORP; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REBATES LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



671 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 25, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 32; Column 1; E-Commerce 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: MARKETING;
Austin's 'Dellionaires' Aren't Ready for the Ranch Just Yet

BYLINE: By COURTNEY BARRY; Courtney Barry writes about technology and business in Austin, Tex.

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
EVERY wheel has a hub. In Seattle, Microsoft laid the groundwork for the broader software scene that has grown up there, luring talented young people to the Northwest, then turning them into millionaires able to comfortably jump ship and start their own companies.
Silicon Valley's more varied endeavors reflected the influence of alumni of Hewlett-Packard, Fairchild Semiconductor, the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center and Stanford University. 
 Then there are the former employees of Dell Computer, the leading direct seller of personal computers, who became millionaires through stock ownership or options and are driving the growing and increasingly varied e-commerce boom here. By some counts, there are thousands of these former Dell employees.
Just what do these rich young retirees from a hardware company bring to a scene that is increasingly dominated by software and commerce?
Cash, for one thing.
"There are a lot of Dellionaires that have to place their money somewhere," said Andrew Harris, a former president of Dell International, who runs a start-up company, HandTech.com, which sells computer products and offers personalized technical support.
For another, they have too much energy to relax and enjoy "life on the ranch," as Mr. Harris described his time between Dell and HandTech.
Bruce A. Ezell, another Dellionaire, said, "There was a saying that working at Dell was like jumping out of an airplane with your hair on fire -- there was an extreme sense of urgency to the corporate culture."
Mr. Ezell, who helped coordinate Dell's move into software and peripherals, is trying to match money from former Dell workers with start-up companies, as the head of a venture capital firm, Techxas Ventures.
Finally, there was the perception at Dell that a hardware business was more than just a hardware business.
Mr. Ezell and Mr. Harris both said that Dell had more influence as a fast marketer of good computers than as a technology laboratory. The company is known for "its ability to package technology into a solution," Mr. Ezell said.
This emphasis trained Dell employees and managers to look beyond the manufacturing of computers and see how technology fit into the new economy. When workers left, they took that knowledge with them and spun permutations that have made Austin a center of e-commerce.
But it is not just Dell. Austin has companies like the Trilogy Development Group, which provides software to automate sales and other business operations, and Tivoli Systems Inc., which develops software to manage computer systems. Both companies have spawned technology start-ups. Tivoli is now a division of I.B.M.
Dell's influence, however, may have the greatest reach.
At HandTech.com, which Mr. Harris founded with Martin Slagter, the former president of Dell Europe, the focus is on the "need-help majority," providing Web systems for computer resellers. That contrasts with the "don't-need-help minority" that Mr. Harris said Dell was concentrating on; that is, "the tech heads, which developed into the business model for the Fortune 500 companies."
At Techxas Ventures, Mr. Ezell compared his strategy for capitalizing on technology growth with the early days of the gold rush.
"Before the railroads were built, you could get gold out of the mine, but you couldn't easily get it to market," he said. "Railroads ultimately led to faster transportation, which led to technology improvement in ways to mine and bring more gold out.
"The same holds true with the Internet," he said. "We're not investing in the information companies" or gold miners. "We're investing in the infrastructure, the guys that sell the pickaxes and lifting equipment."
FOR Mr. Ezell, who left Dell in 1998, the company also underscored the importance of corporate frugality, emphasized by its founder and chairman, Michael Dell.
"We sat in a management meeting at Dell," Mr. Ezell said. "There were probably about 100 managers, so we all fit into one room. Michael was talking about how we have to continue to lower our costs. And he said: 'Just this morning I was sitting in my office and there was a credenza there, and I said: 'Why do I need this credenza? It's full of all this stuff I don't need. Why are we spending money on credenzas?'
"There was a pause," Mr. Ezell continued, "and then Joel Kocher, the president of Dell USA at the time, stood up, and said, 'Michael, you can have my credenza today.'
"The rest of us -- sitting in the audience as managers -- are saying, 'Well, what are we supposed to do?' So all of a sudden another hand went up, and someone said, 'You can have mine,' and then another hand went up, and before Michael knew it we sent around a pad of paper and everybody who had a credenza signed the list and said, 'Come take my credenza.'
"And for a three-month time period," Mr. Ezell said, "the Dell factory outlet in Austin was the only place in the country where you could get a smoking-hot deal on a wooden Kimball credenza bundled with a used laser printer for $300."
Mr. Ezell said the emphasis on keeping costs low has led to a strategy in which an e-business does not build a warehouse to hold inventory, but sends the order to a wholesale distributor. He estimated that more than 50 percent of dot-coms use the method pioneered partly by Dell.
It is a method that Mr. Harris has taken to HandTech.
"At Dell, you learned that 'inventory is anathema,' " Mr. Harris said in his office, where he oversees 110 employees on Austin's Loop 360, which, like Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley, is becoming a corridor for technology developers and venture capitalists.
Steering clear of inventory is important in the technology reseller industry for the company that is trying to develop a viable business, Mr. Harris added.
"In the 1980's this was an eye-opening concept" he said. "And at Dell there was an emphasis on 'thinking outside the box.' The company wouldn't be hampered by what the history tells you is right or wrong."
Mr. Ezell, Mr. Harris and others say that Austin's new economy continues to be shaped by Dell's influence. Mr. Ezell says that Austin is now seen as a technology mecca for venture capitalists. There are a lot of future Dellionaires waiting in the wings, he said. "We say they're 'vesting in peace,' " he added, laughing.
Hans Severiens, an investment banker turned venture capitalist who manages Band of Angels Fund, a group of 150 high-technology investors in Silicon Valley, said: "People always ask me about other parts of the country, and I say, 'Well, you've got to have a certain infrastructure to make these things work; you've got to have money, an intellectual center, like a good university, a decent climate and the stimulation of other companies.' And I generally come up with two or three places. Austin is one of them."
But money, courtesy of Dell, may still be the biggest factor in Austin.
"It's just easier for young businesses to get cash in Austin, and that's definitely had an impact," Mr. Harris said. "An idea is not much good without money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Texas, Andrew Harris, left, a former Dell executive, runs a start-up called HandTech.com. Bruce A. Ezell, right, runs a venture capital firm. (Photographs by Mark Matson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DELL COMPUTER CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STARTUPS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (76%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (75%); HARDWARE STORES (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); CORPORATE CULTURE (69%); 

PERSON: BARRY, COURTNEY ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2000



672 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: LOS ANGELES -- MINI-MALLS;
Replacing Shoppers With Students

BYLINE: By Frances Anderton 

 BODY:

Mini-malls are in vast supply in Los Angeles, and there is a shortage of schools. Philip Lance, an Episcopal priest and director of Pueblo Nuevo Development, a community redevelopment organization, had a creative solution: turning a mall into a school. He enlisted a nonprofit school developer, EXED, as well as Paul Cummins, an expert in founding new schools, and hired the architects Daly Genik to create the newly opened Camino Nuevo Charter Academy, above. The architects transformed an 11,000-square-foot mini-mall, which had never opened, into a vibrant school building in the Rampart district with classrooms for 250 children, from kindergarten to fifth grade. They added new windows and doors and gave the building a bright splash of paint. An existing external balcony and stairs were transformed into a striking structure made of steel and a beige synthetic "lumber" made of recycled plastic and paper pulp. An entrance to underground parking was relocated, making way for more classrooms and a play area, and giving teachers their own parking area under the school, an important security issue in this low-income area. 
 The $1.1 million Camino Nuevo represents a bright light for the community. "There's always a chance to rethink the city fabric, and having an opportunity to turn it into a school was a special one," said Kevin Daly, whose firm is better known for spare, modern residences. Camino Nuevo Academy is at 697 South Burlington, at Seventh Street.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Debra DiPaolo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CURRENTS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CAMINO NUEVO CHARTER ACADEMY (LOS ANGELES) CAMINO NUEVO CHARTER ACADEMY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMINO NUEVO CHARTER ACADEMY (LOS ANGELES) CAMINO NUEVO CHARTER ACADEMY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SHOPPING CENTERS; DESIGN STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (68%); 

PERSON: ANDERTON, FRANCES KEVIN DALY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



673 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Born in Iran, Trained in France, Sought in America

BYLINE: By MALLERY LANE 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WHAT magic ingredients turn a designer like India Mahdavi into a success in three years' time? The answer is talent, certainly, but also luck and an eclectic background that marks her work as exotic, global and sophisticated.
Her influences range from classical to cutting-edge: from the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris, where she received an architecture degree, to Cooper Union in New York, with its reliance on the craft of building and exploration of materials. 
 Note that she is also in a field where successful men strikingly outnumber successful women. Since taking on her first client in 1997, India Mahdavi, 37, has opened a Paris design studio, IMH Interiors; succeeded Philippe Starck in designing the next hotel for Ian Schrager, the Empire, opposite Lincoln Center; fashioned a breezy hotel in Miami and a private nightclub in New York; and come up with a new concept for Givenchy stores worldwide -- the first will open in Paris next spring.
So what is her style? "You can't pin it down to a specific influence or reference," said Yann Le Coadic, a freelance interior designer in Paris, who says the French call the look faux coordonne -- meaning something appears to have been conceived of as a single thing but "on close inspection is composed of elements coming from different sources." He added, "Every detail of a space India designs is thought out to the millimeter, and yet the overall impression is very uncontrived. India focuses on how a space will be lived and not what visual impression it will make."
Ms. Mahdavi began working for Christian Liaigre in 1990, when he had just redesigned the interiors of the Montalembert Hotel in Paris, the project that put him on the map. Mr. Liaigre's studio had a staff of only four, and "I was able to do a little of everything," Ms. Mahdavi said. The studio later tripled in size, and she become the art director.
In 1994, Ms. Mahdavi met Derek Hudson, a photojournalist, when he walked into Mr. Liaigre's shop. Two years later, she gave birth to their son, Miles.
"Having a baby changes your perspective," she said. And after working with Mr. Liaigre on the tailored Mercer Hotel in New York, she began a solo career working from home. "I didn't have a clue how things were going to work out," she said.
Only a few weeks later, she got her first big commission: two shops, a line of furniture and the office headquarters for the fashion retailer Joseph in London. Joseph Ettedgui, who runs Joseph, hired her on instinct, convinced she could be a lead designer.
Why? "Her attitude," he said. "It was a pleasure working with her, which is not always the case with gifted people."
Ms. Mahdavi designed eight pieces of furniture for his men's store on Sloane Avenue. They included typical bachelor items: a daybed, mirror and free-standing suit racks with masculine, graphic lines in sycamore and wenge wood. She used clothing fabric like navy pinstripe for upholstery. British critics gave rave reviews.
A few private residences in London followed, and then America came calling. Jonathan Morr, a New York restaurateur who owns Bond Street and Republic, asked her to create an "undesigned" hotel in Miami, called Townhouse. Because there was no way to build a swimming pool, she created a roof terrace. Guests can sunbathe on queen-size water beds or wade in a fountain that she put inside an old water tower, adding tiled walls and benches. Throughout, Ms. Mahdavi used colors inspired by sand and sky and created multifunctional furniture suitable for gathering, dozing or having a room service meal. Benches offer a selection of daily newspapers, and there's an exercise bike at the end of each corridor facing a window.
"Miami is basically a beach place," Ms. Mahdavi said. "Why try to do some chic European thing when all you really want in Miami is to get a little suntan, sit on a terrace with a drink, go out at night, feel at home?"
Mr. Morr encountered the same practical attitude when he asked her to design an invitation-only New York hangout, tentatively called the Apartment. (He will give its location only as 13th Street, in the meatpacking district.) "When I asked India if she'd design a nightclub for me, she said she never goes out to bars and clubs so she wouldn't know what to do," he said. "Then she suggested the idea of entertaining in an apartment, because that is what she does when she sees friends."
Ms. Mahdavi said the space, which occupies 2,500 square feet on two floors of a seven-story building, has the scale of a real apartment. "You even have to ring the bell," she said. "There is an open kitchen, dining table, sofa area, even a bed. It's meant to feel like an open house with friends coming and going." Invited friends, that is.
Mr. Schrager saw her work on the Miami hotel and heard about her from Mr. Ettedgui. "India is a great stylist in the genre of Andree Putman," he said, referring to the Parisian interior designer who was his collaborator (along with Steve Rubell) at Morgans hotel in the 80's. "She has a tremendous amount of strength and she's inventive and original. That's a potent combination." The Empire hotel, which he sees as "the next generation of Morgans" -- with vibrant colors instead of black, white and grays -- is expected to open in 2001.
Ms. Mahdavi was born in Tehran of an Iranian father and a half-Egyptian, half-Scottish mother. The family moved to Cambridge, Mass., when Ms. Mahdavi was an infant and her father, an economist, entered the M.B.A. program at Harvard University. The family then moved to Germany and ultimately to the south of France. Ms. Mahdavi was raised with four siblings in a home where French and English were spoken.
At age 7, she began attending the progressive Ecole Freinet, near Nice, where students defined their own studies and activities and pottery was seen as equal to math.
"It was up to each student to take initiative to choose what they wanted to do, carry it out and present it," Ms. Mahdavi said. "The Ecole Freinet had a big impact on me. It is where I learned to have confidence in my choices."
Though she wanted to study filmmaking, "there were no accessible film schools in Paris at that time," she said, "so I thought I'd do like Fritz Lang and study architecture first." She completed the seven-year program at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, but her first job persuaded her to try another profession. "I never liked the ambience of architects' offices," she said. "They give me the blues."
Finding interior design more lively, she headed to New York City, where she spent a year studying graphics at Parsons, furniture at Cooper Union and industrial design at the School of Visual Arts.
Her style is rooted in a modern elegance that marries the contemporary with the tried and true. One of her best-selling designs, a floor tray nearly six feet long called Celibataire, is meant to sit under stacks of books and magazines or under pictures leaning against a wall.
"I like the idea of an accessory that becomes a piece of furniture," she said. (The tray can be ordered from IMH Interiors at 3, rue Las Cases, 75007 Paris, 011-331-45.51.63.89, for about $400, plus shipping.)
Her home, in the Left Bank neighborhood of St.-Germain-des-Pres, is a reflection of her ever-evolving ideas. An L-shaped, high-backed corner bench that Ms. Mahdavi designed sits in the dining area next to a table she inherited from her grandmother and a 1950's swivel chair she bought in Miami. In the living area an orange velvet love seat and matching screen, which she also designed, mix with pieces that influence and inspire her: a three-legged Adnet metal stool upholstered in leather, a 40's plexiglass chair coupled with a Pierre Paulin desk from the 60's, a Royere side table, a bronze cylindrical stool by the contemporary French designer Eric Schmidtt.
"I like mixing things," she said. "My apartment doesn't have to be all about me and what I do."
It seems her only fear is becoming successful too quickly. "One should always be able to make mistakes, because that is how you learn," she said. "But it is hard when everyone is looking at you. It's not that I don't trust my talent, but I am so much at the beginning of what I could do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: MIX MASTER -- India Mahdavi, above; her home has a 40's plexiglass chair, 60's Pierre Paulin desk. (Photographs by Eric Morin for The New York Times)(pg. F1); COORDINATED -- India Mahdavi, above right, designed the corner bench in her Paris apartment, above left, and uses an Eric Schmidtt contemporary stool, above center, as an end table, and her own floor tray. Left, Townhouse, a hotel in Miami: the room, left, and lobby, center, use beach colors and overscale pieces. (Jeffery A. Salter/Saba, for The New York Times above and above left and right ); (Photographs by Eric Morin for The New York Times); HOME WORK -- India Mahdavi's design studio, IMH Interiors, left, is near her apartment in Paris. The Full Moon table on display there was designed for a private home in England but is also available through the studio for around $3,200. Right, a plan for the Apartment, a club, complete with bed, soon to open in the meatpacking district of New York. The name is subject to change, the customers subject to preapproval. (pg. F17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ENGLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ENGLAND (77%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: DESIGN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (75%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); RETAILERS (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); FURNITURE STORES (63%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: MAHDAVI, INDIA; LANE, MALLERY CHRISTIAN LIAIGRE (62%); JOSEPH ETTEDGUI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



674 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Bottoms Up, the Murphy's Back

BYLINE: By KIMBERLY STEVENS 

 BODY:
IVY FAHRER recently built a seven-bedroom Gothic-style home with her husband in Harrison, N.Y. A wing of their house includes a large suite for her sister, who visits occasionally from Texas. What's unusual about the suite is where sister will slumber: A Murphy bed, king-size and custom-designed, complete with a pillow-top mattress. "Only the best for the princess and the pea," Ms. Fahrer, the president of Cebon Cosmetics, said, laughing. "My sister is very particular about where she sleeps."
The brushed-aluminum concoction, which incorporates shelves, closets and a nifty retractable desk, cost $15,000 -- the price of several conventional beds. But they wouldn't have folded up out of sight. "The novelty is wonderful," Ms. Fahrer said, "and when she's not around, my husband and I have an artists' retreat where we can paint and sculpt." 
 The century-old Murphy bed is experiencing a renaissance, and not just among the space-starved. No longer the wacky clunker that tormented Abbott and Costello, the Murphy bed (now a generic term for the presto-chango bed patented by William L. Murphy in 1908) has gone millennial, springing from brushed-steel cabinetry, cherrywood armoires, maple bookcases. It's upwardly mobile, as well, with a clientele that ranges from Ashton Hawkins, the executive vice president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, to Jimmy Smits, the former "NYPD Blue" heartthrob, to Ralph Acampora, the Wall Street forecaster.
A remote-control Murphy was a big draw in a 525-square-foot beach home on the market for $3.95 million in Del Mar, Calif. "The Murphy bed has become cool again," said Tom Pearson, the property's broker. "All these young Internet moguls, with their surfboards in one hand and their computers in the other, get a real kick out of the bed." That's if they even know it is a bed.
With his Murphy bed's cherrywood and steel cabinetry, "friends think it's a really mod entertainment center," said Joe Hill, 35, a hair stylist, who recently moved into a converted 18th-century schoolhouse in Tarrytown, N.Y., with his partner. When the bed's not in use, the two use the room to work out, do business or entertain.
Gene Kolakowski, the vice president of the Murphy Bed Company International in Farmingdale, N.Y., whose doors opened at the turn of the century, contends it is a trend that simply follows a lifestyle. "Multifunction is the key," he said. "People are savvy about the use of space these days. They want a room where they can sleep, work, play and entertain. And they don't care how much it costs."
Jessica Goldbogen, the managing editor of InFurniture magazine, which covers trends in the industry, says designers are testing the perimeters of a bed and its function. "It's a hot concept," she said by phone from High Point, N.C., where designers and manufacturers have been experimenting with Murphy bed design. Some beds turned into tables; other beds tried a different turnaround: they opened from both sides.
Born to be comic props, the original beds of cast iron were bolted into the floor, with coiled box springs that leapt from the wall -- bonking Charlie Chaplin in the head, trapping the Muppets and offering Vinnie Barbarino (John Travolta) a bachelor lair.
In 1989, after a challenge to its patent, the founding family lost its exclusive right to use the name Murphy bed, and ever since, competing manufacturers have vied for consumer attention. Most of the systems have been simplified and streamlined; with the help of air pistons, beds now glide from cabinetry instead of whomping down with a comic twang.
Perhaps that is why Mr. Kolakowski's sales have doubled over a decade. Robert Meyers, the owner of the Murphy Bed Center, with two showrooms in Manhattan and another soon to open in Staten Island, says his sales are up 40 percent in just the last year.
"People are finally really taking the bed seriously," he said excitedly as he paced around his West 23rd Street showroom last week. The company installs from two to five beds a day.
The sales boom goes against the trend in the Murphy bed business. "Murphy beds have always done well when the economy is flat," Mr. Kolakowski said. "And this is the first time that it has done well in a strong economy. I think a lot of empty nesters are purchasing the beds so they can make their kids' rooms into offices, dens, sewing rooms -- you name it."
The bed's image still needs some improvement, though. Recently, the definition of a Murphy bed stumped a contestant on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire."
Henry Smith Miller, an architect, considers himself a pioneer of sorts in the comeback of the Murphy bed. In 1989, he designed a model apartment in the Police Building, at 100 Centre Street, furnished entirely with mobile furniture, including a Murphy bed.
"We call it cross-programming," he said. "We realized people want to be given the ultimate choice in shaping their environment, and the Murphy bed fits perfectly into this concept." Mr. Miller used Murphy beds last year, when he designed a loft space for Arnold Lehman, the director of the Brooklyn Museum.
"For some reason, the Murphy bed always gets lumped together with a pull-out sofa bed," said Marjorie Noto, the president of American Linguists, Interpreters and Translators Inc. and proud owner of four Murphy beds. "It's a travesty. My husband, Stan, and I wouldn't lie down on a sleep sofa if you paid us."
They have two Murphy beds in their Manhattan apartment and two in a condominium they recently purchased at Brown's Hotel in the Catskills. During the condo renovation, Ms. Noto had two Murphy beds with old mechanisms ripped out and replaced with up-to-date versions. "The beds went, bolts, springs and all, as well as a dancing platform and a disco ball," she said gleefully.
Accurately speaking, the Murphy bed has not so much returned as evolved. What was once considered an economical sleeping solution has in many cases become a luxurious and pricey alternative. The Murphy bed mechanism alone costs around $500, and custom cabinetry, mirrors and special mattresses make the price soar.
Recently, Mr. Meyers of the Murphy Bed Center built a $30,000 traditional white lacquer unit complete with molding in a three bedroom Fifth Avenue apartment for a young couple who needed extra space for visiting in-laws. "Clearly, for this couple money was no object," he said. "They just wanted to make better use of the space."
But potential renters weighing the difference between a one-bedroom for $1,800 a month and a two-bedroom for $2,400 -- $600 a month -- might find that it doesn't take that long to amortize a Murphy bed, even one that costs $6,000. For Lisa Valentino, 30, a lawyer who lives in a 600-square-foot apartment in Battery Park City, the bed has made it possible to have a life.
"I always had visions of getting stuck in the bed," she said. "But I got over it. It's really cool, and I'm actually adding shelves to the basic unit I got. It has given me the space to really live."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPOT THE BED -- A small house in Del Mar, Calif., above,
has a remote control Murphy bed. (Hint: cabinet at left). Above, Charlie Chaplin in "One A.M." (1916). (Dyson & Dyson Real Estate Associates; top, Museum of Modern Art); SPACE IN MOTION -- Lisa Valentino says her Murphy bed expanded her life. (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. F4): UPWARDLY MOBILE -- A clunker no more, the Murphy bed has evolved. Interlubke's Alpha system tucks a fold-down bed into a wall storage system. (pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GEMEY MAYBELLINE GARNIER SNC (57%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BEDS AND BEDDING; DESIGN; FURNITURE COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MATTRESSES (72%); COSMETICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); MILLENNIUM (67%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, KIMBERLY JIMMY SMITS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



675 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2101 words

HEADLINE: Not Just a Roof, but Roots for a Season

BYLINE: By JULIE V. IOVINE 

DATELINE: ORRTANNA, Pa.

 BODY:
DOMINGO RODRIGUEZ, in after-shower boxers and a T-shirt, appeared fresh even after nine hours of apple picking. While a stereo played Spanish music, the lacy window curtains fluttered and the bistec sizzled under the broiler, Mr. Rodriguez, a migrant worker, gave a tour of the modest 810-square-foot house he shares with Alain Leon Burgos. He reveled in its comforts as if it were a fine hotel. Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Burgos are part of a six-man crew that came up from Puerto Rico in June to help harvest 400 acres of apples and 200 acres of peaches at Bream Orchards, in the fruit-picking heartland of Pennsylvania near Gettysburg.
The house is a prefabricated metal shed with aspirations: a pitched roof, a columned porch and an overstuffed Victorian armchair angled to catch the last warm rays of October sunlight. It is the work of Bryan Bell, the founder of Design Corps, a nonprofit operation dedicated to bringing design intelligence to bear on the enduring problem of substandard housing for migrant workers, "among the poorest and worst-housed groups in the United States," according to a report released last week by the Housing Assistance Council, an advocacy group in Washington. 
 The house where Mr. Rodriguez, 54, lives for five months each year is one of four identical buildings in a neighborly row in an apple orchard. Vincent Scully, the architectural historian, has called them "small temples for migrant workers." Mr. Rodriguez, pausing to show off a washing machine tucked neatly in a closet off a sunny hallway that leads to two bedrooms, called it a "dream house," one step toward the suburban ranch pinups he had torn from magazines to decorate the walls. It was a world away from the chicken coop crudely adapted to human use that Mr. Rodriguez used to occupy. And it is nothing like the dilapidated mobile homes, concrete-slab dormitories with outhouses or decades-old one-room bullpens, where male workers sleep on cots crammed side by side. Such substandard housing is still visible along the county roads of rural America. Every picking season, local newspapers chronicle even worse conditions throughout the country: migrants sleeping in tents, caves, cars or under bridges.
Moises Loza, the executive director of the Housing Assistance Council, which issued the report "Abundant Fields, Meager Shelter," called migrant housing "an undeclared disaster of the highest urgency."
There are more than 1.3 million migrant workers in the United States, who come mostly from Mexico but also from Puerto Rico, Haiti, Jamaica, Florida and Texas and travel state to state in search of work. Many don't speak English. According to the Labor Department's National Agricultural Workers Survey, released in March, 52 percent of the hired farmworkers are illegal immigrants. They are also largely invisible: ladders poking up along horizons of fruit trees, or the weekly rush of Spanish-speaking customers at a local grocery store, offer the only evidence that they are here -- until they make the news. Last month in Farmingville, N.Y., two Mexican men looking for work were beaten and knifed by two men posing as contractors promising jobs -- a brutal testament to the sometimes uneasy relationship between laborers and the communities where they work.
Migrant workers usually stick to themselves. Their median income is $850 a month, earned over a five-month picking season, and their yearly income is well below the poverty level. When the growers who hire migrant workers do not provide them with a place to live, their housing options are dismal: they cannot take on rental leases for their short stay, and motels are prohibitively expensive.
"What's tragic is that what migrant workers do is critical to everyone, to all of us who eat, and yet they don't have any influence to get things done," Mr. Loza said, lamenting the lack of a comprehensive federal policy easily applicable to migrant housing. "In any other situation, war would be declared and the problem would be addressed, but still nobody is doing anything about it." Migrant workers are even losing ground, according to the Workers Survey report, which found that their earnings, adjusted for inflation, are 11 percent lower than they were 10 years ago, having stagnated at a national adjusted average of $7,500 a year.
In an old sewing machine factory overlooking the battlefields of Gettysburg, Mr. Bell, 40, has pledged himself to the fight. A bashful man (he could be a von Trapp sibling in "The Sound of Music") in a flannel shirt and tan work boots, Mr. Bell has himself come a long way from the kind of work he did as a graduate with architecture degrees from Princeton and Yale.
Ten years ago, Mr. Bell was doing what was expected of him, working his way up in a prestigious New York firm, Steven Holl Architects, designing doorknobs and details for a multimillion-dollar house. "I realized that that wasn't what I wanted to be doing with the talents I had, with the education I had," Mr. Bell said, over tacos and papaya juice at a roadhouse near the fields, where workers come for lunch on their 30-minute breaks. "I was determined to do something different, something that I valued."
At the time, Mr. Bell's sister, then a legal aide, began sending him photographs showing the degraded conditions of migrant housing in Pennsylvania. She was inspecting camps to see that they met federal and state housing codes. She described motel-style buildings with communal toilets and dank barrack-type dwellings, images of "overcrowding, overflowing toilets, raw sewage."
"My sister also told me about the fear and paranoia," he said. "People were so afraid to talk about the problems, they'd pass notes instead."
Mr. Bell quit his job and moved down to a fishing shack on a stream with no electricity in Gettysburg, a part of one of the largest fruit-processing regions on the East Coast, where outhouses, though uncommon, are still in use. "I wanted to try and see if I could get to know a very small community very well, and do appropriate architecture for them," he said. "I was challenging my value as an architect. I saw a problem and thought here was someplace I could come in and help. To me it was a design problem."
In many states, there are small pockets of activism -- church groups and nonprofit organizations working with communities to build a handful of better houses. Mr. Bell himself has spent considerable time learning from Samuel Mockbee at Rural Studio in Greensboro, Ala., where each semester students make buildings for the impoverished residents of Hale County, Ala.
But Mr. Bell's goal is more ambitious: develop a national housing program tailored to the financial realities of farmers and the daily needs of workers, and installed at very low cost. "I'm against the generic," said Mr. Bell, who envisions as many building types as there are migrant communities. "Every tiny cultural group should somehow have the opportunity to shape their environment."
Mr. Bell started out by interviewing dozens of migrant workers and growers on the East Coast. He recruited volunteers to work with him, sending them to local migrant health centers, where workers were more likely to speak freely. "Nobody ever really talked to migrant workers about what was best, what was good and what was bad, or what was the housing like where they came from," Mr. Bell said. "The workers themselves didn't want to complain, because they think of themselves as guests in this country."
For five years he worked with Rural Opportunities, a program financed by the Agriculture and Labor Departments, learning how to apply for grants and how to tap into the byzantine world of federal aid.
And he talked to growers, traveling to their association meetings to lecture. "I always spoke after the guy who was talking about dagger nematodes, a parasite that kills apple trees," he recalled. "I knew that lecture by heart." Mr. Bell slept in his car, short of hotel money, but stored up a wealth of raw experience. He learned that farmers were resentful but resigned to remaining the main providers of worker housing. "They had gotten into it out of necessity, because no one else could afford the operating costs," Mr. Bell explained.
In 1991, he opened Design Corps and began designing in earnest. Mark Bream, a third-generation farmer, was one of the first fruit growers to sign on. "I wish I could just put my ad in the paper, get workers and get the job done," he said in an interview. "But that's just not the way it works. It doesn't make you any money. But at least I have workers when I need them."
Mr. Bell has built 10 houses for 50 migrant workers in Pennsylvania, including the one occupied by Mr. Rodriguez. Mr. Bream paid $75,000 for his four units, with matching funds Mr. Bell helped him get from the state. Mr. Bream provides the land and pays for utilities and maintenance. "If you don't have the housing, it's really hard to get the workers," said Mr. Bream, who charges each laborer $9 a week for housing.
Mr. Bell alters prefabricated units to need, using design to meet and often exceed federal and state code requirements. For example, a house is required to provide 100 square feet per person. Mr. Bell's five-man dwelling at Bream Orchards is 810 square feet, with no extra cost to the farmer.
When asked to describe his designs, Mr. Bell refrains from professional jargon, describing instead how design can make a typical picker's job a little less spirit- and backbreaking. "Not all design issues are about money," he said. "Having the sun come in your window in the morning doesn't cost anything. They come back from work with some equipment. So I made a screened porch where they can drop off their tools, and I have a big sink there so they can wash up some from the pesticides. Generally, a couple of them will start cooking, while some are showering, taking turns." He made sure to build in a long kitchen counter that could double as a dining bar for ad hoc meals.
Exhausted pickers' most popular activity was watching television lying down. "Originally, I had the TV in one bedroom, but they were all piling on one guy's bed to watch it," Mr. Bell explained. So in one model he has arranged a four-bed space with a television in the middle so that everyone can watch while reclining. He aligned windows on each side of the living room "to make sure there's plenty of cross ventilation, because there are rarely any air-conditioners." he said, adding: "And I always try to include porches. They just seem to remind people universally of home."
Early next year, four new units will be constructed near Gettysburg. Farmers often ask for housing that can accommodate as many as 30 men, but Mr. Bell prefers a more intimate scale. "They come up from the South by car, four or five men," he explained. By the time workers reach Pennsylvania, "the core group of friends has already formed," he added. The housing unit itself is shaped aerodynamically, with a rounded roof and a porch with a flaring roofline. "I wanted it to suggest modes of transportation: a Conestoga wagon, or an Airstream trailer," Mr. Bell said.
Mr. Mockbee, his mentor, said: "Seeing Bryan's work, you say, 'Ah! There's intelligence at work here,' but it doesn't scream at you. His work is much closer to the client's aspirations than what most architects would ever consider catering to."
This winter, Mr. Bell is taking his campaign on the road to South Carolina, where living conditions are more squalid and farmers are slower to upgrade. This time, his model house has four bedrooms for eight people, two airy porches and a communal living room with 10-foot ceilings, two stoves and two refrigerators for families who told him they preferred to live in pairs, as long as each family could have its own kitchen space. Mr. Bell's conviction that design can improve lives is unshaken. "It started out as a search," he said. "Now I know it's the truth: designers are needed to address social issues."
In Pennsylvania in early October, Mr. Rodriguez was expecting only one more week of work, as the harvest was ending. His earnings this year will be about $4,000, a disappointment after last year's bumper crop, when he brought home $6,000. He offered three visitors plastic cups full of crunchy, savory green bananas, which he had sauteed with onions to accompany his bistec.
Mr. Bell noticed that Mr. Rodriguez had moved the refrigerator to hide the trash can from view. The architect made a mental note. Next time, he'd make sure to design a cabinet to do that job.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DESIGNING IN DIGNITY -- Domingo Rodriquez, standing at top, and Alain Leon Burgos come every year from Puerto Rico to Adams County, Pa., to work at Bream Orchards for the five-month apple-picking season. This year, they shared an 810-square-foot prefabricated house, top -- a model for inexpensive, flexible shelter sensitive to migrant workers' needs. Above right, Mr. Rodriquez reads beside a kitchen window carefully positioned for cross ventilation or relaxes on the porch at the end of the workday. Above left, Tiko Sevre is part of a Haitian crew picking Empire apples. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1); ON THE MARGINS -- Farm roads pass sagging migrant shelters, left; 60-man barracks, top right; and units with outhouses, bottom.; HOME FROM THE FIELDS -- Domingo Rodriguez shares two bedrooms, laundry and sunny kitchen. He calls it his "dream house" -- a step toward the suburban ranches pinned to his wall. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); GOOD WORKS -- Bryan Bell, top, and his schemes for South Carolina, above left, and Pennsylvania. (Matt Heckendorn; left, Bryan Bell)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CASTILE AND LEON, SPAIN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DESIGN CORP HOUSING ASSISTANCE COUNCIL (55%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DESIGN CORP HOUSING ASSISTANCE COUNCIL (55%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); MEXICO (79%); CASTILE AND LEON, SPAIN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MIGRANT LABOR; DESIGN; AGRICULTURE FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); FARM LABOR (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); MOBILE HOMES (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (70%); MEN (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (61%); 

PERSON: IOVINE, JULIE V; BELL, BRYAN DOMINGO RODRIGUEZ (81%); BRYAN BELL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



676 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Taxes

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It is disheartening that corporate America, the real hero in the current expansion, is being bashed by a study that ignores the tax burden on American corporations and mischaracterizes legitimate tax provisions as tax avoidance schemes (Business Day, Oct. 20). 
 Internal Revenue Service data show that on average, corporations pay almost 30 percent of their profits in federal income taxes, a figure that signals a high rate of compliance, not widespread tax evasion. A deeper concern is the attack on the pro-growth tax policy that has contributed to our strong economy.
Corporations provide well-paying jobs, investment opportunities and services for all Americans. Instead of legitimizing the class warfare rhetoric of the current campaign by bashing corporations for alleged tax avoidance, let's focus our efforts on reducing taxes for both corporations and their employees.
 
MICHAEL E. BAROODY
Senior Vice President
Natl. Assn. of Manufacturers
Washington, Oct. 24, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE ON TAXATION AND ECONOMIC POLICY INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE ON TAXATION AND ECONOMIC POLICY INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CORPORATIONS TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX FRAUD (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INCOME TAX (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); 

PERSON: BAROODY, MICHAEL E

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



677 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Dropped 2.7% In September

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes fell last month to a pace that still shows the economy has not lost much of its vigor, industry figures showed today.
Home resales fell 2.7 percent in September, to an annual rate of 5.14 million units, according to the National Association of Realtors. The decline came after a 9.5 percent rise in August resales that was the biggest monthly increase since June 1999. 
 Resales will probably total about 5 million this year, second only to last year's record 5.2 million, according to the trade group's projections.
"Everything that comes on the market seems to be sold and seems to be sold fairly quickly, which is consistent with a strong economy," said Mark Vitner, senior economist at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. At September's sales rate, there was a four-month supply of houses on the market, association figures showed. While that is up from the 3.8-month supply a month earlier, it is below the 5-month average for the more than nine years of economic expansion.
Sales of previously owned homes, which account for 85 percent of all houses on the market, are considered an important gauge of consumer demand. Home sales can stimulate spending on goods like furniture and appliances. Shipments of major home appliances rose 3.7 percent in September and are up six of the last nine months, according to the latest figures from the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
By region, sales fell 8.8 percent in the Northeast; 3.5 percent in the Midwest; 3.5 percent in the South; and rose 2.1 percent in the West.
Meanwhile, the median price of a home fell 1 percent, to $141,800 in September, from $143,200 in August.
The average rate on the 30-year mortgage has held below 8 percent since mid-August, according to the mortgage provider Freddie Mac. Rates have fallen since reaching a five-year high of 8.64 percent in mid-May. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (52%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF HOME APPLIANCE MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF HOME APPLIANCE MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (52%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) EXISTING HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (65%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



678 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO FALLS TO NEW LOW. The euro sank to a record as traders speculated that chances are fading that central banks will prop up the currency. In New York, the euro settled at 82.81 cents, down from 83.72 cents on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since May 1999 . (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



679 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: DuPont Earnings Fall 14%; Pessimism This Quarter, Too

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Oct. 25

 BODY:
The DuPont Company said today that its third-quarter profit fell 14 percent and that profit in the fourth quarter would be hurt by a slowing economy and lower sales in its drug business.
Profit from operations fell to $537 million, or 51 cents a share, compared with $625 million, or 59 cents a share, in the third quarter a year earlier. Sales were little changed at $6.45 billion. 
 The results matched forecasts of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. Analysts had lowered their estimates in September after the company first said it would not meet profit targets for the year.
In the recent quarter, DuPont had special charges of $72 million, or 8 cents a share, related to last year's acquisition of Pioneer Hi-Bred International and to a plant closing, and one-time gains of $97 million, or 10 cents a share, from sales of stakes in two businesses. These resulted in net income of $562 million, or 53 cents a share. In the quarter a year earlier, after charges of $444 million, or 42 cents a share, for reorganization in the company's agricultural and nylon businesses, net income was $181 million, or 17 cents a share.
The DuPont Company, which last month forecast profit as high as $2.95 a share for the year, now says $2.85 is the best it can "reasonably expect to achieve." That is 3 cents below Wall Street estimates and the second time in two months the company has lowered its forecast.
In trading today, DuPont shares fell 50 cents, to $42.38.
The company's third-quarter profit was hurt by a 45 percent rise in oil prices and a 75 percent increase in natural gas prices, key ingredients in chemical products. The results were also hurt by a 7 percent decline in the euro, which makes European sales worth less in dollars. The currency fluctuations and rising energy prices cost the company $250 million in the quarter.
DuPont expects "significantly lower fourth-quarter results" from the its pharmaceutical business, Charles Holliday, the chief executive, said in a statement.
Drug sales, which were $389 million in the third quarter, will be reduced by $100 million in each of the next three quarters, said Gary Pfeiffer, the chief financial officer. The company said it was phasing out promotional programs for some of its drugs, including the Parkinson's disease treatment Sinemet, which is losing sales to generic competitors.
The company did not discuss the outlook for 2001 earnings. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); PIONEER HI-BRED MAGYARORSZAG VETOMAGTERMELO ES FORGALMAZO RT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); CURRENCIES (69%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CLOSINGS (54%); 

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



680 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Bush Returns to Education

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

 BODY:
The Bush-Cheney campaign has begun showing more television commercials about education. Mindy Tucker, a campaign spokeswoman, said the advertisements were being shown in "battleground" states, which she would not identify. One is titled "Expect More."
 
PRODUCER -- Cold Harbor Films
 
ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial opens with a boy tossing a baseball and catching it. Then a girl is shown watching through a screened backstop. The boy reaches for the ball on the ground. Gov. George W. Bush is then shown in shirt sleeves, then with a little girl in a schoolroom, in what appears to be a campaign photo opportunity. Then children wave flags as the words "leave no child behind" appear on the screen. Mr. Bush then appears again, speaking, in shirt sleeves. Then a little boy in a classroom appears, followed by Mr. Bush in a suit with some adults in a classroom. Then Boy Scouts raise a flag. Finally, Mr. Bush appears again in shirt sleeves, as he finishes his comments and the words "accountability," "discipline" and "end social promotion" appear on the screen. Children in half-tones wave as the commercial ends. 

THE SCRIPT -- Governor Bush: "How come the hard things don't get done? Because they're hard. If we really want to make sure no child gets left behind in America, we need the courage to do some tough things. We need to raise standards in our schools. We need more accountability and more discipline. And we need to stop promoting failing kids to the next grade because we've given up on them. It's easy just to spend more. Let's start by expecting more."
 
ACCURACY -- Complete. None of his simple prescriptions are remotely controversial.
 
SCORECARD -- This advertisement was prepared and started showing before a recent study by the RAND Corporation, a California research organization, challenging the claims Mr. Bush has made about progress in education in Texas. Its pace is not as frantic as some earlier commercials. It deals with the issue that voters, regardless of whether they support Mr. Bush or Vice President Al Gore, cite more often than any other as the most important issue facing the next president and Congress. The return to this theme emphasizes the central issue that Mr. Bush has used to portray himself to voters as a different kind of Republican. ADAM CLYMER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CHENEY, DICK GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



681 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
An all-out effort is under way to market an artificial sweetener.

BYLINE: By Constance L. Hays 

 BODY:
WORLD of home-baked coconut pie, made without sugar? That is among the promises that the marketers of Splenda, an artificial sweetener generically known as sucralose, are making through a large-scale campaign that began last month and will peak in January with a series of television commercials intended to create consumer interest in the product.
Splenda is made by McNeil Specialty Products, a division of Johnson & Johnson. While McNeil executives would not disclose spending for the campaign, one industry expert put the figure at about $40 million, citing publications that the company distributed at trade shows this summer to describe how it planned to support the product. 
 While the market is crowded with artificial sweeteners -- Equal and Sweet 'n' Low, to name just two -- advertising has trailed off in recent years.
"It's a category that from a marketing standpoint spends a third of what it spent 15 years ago," said Kieran Walsh, executive vice president and managing director at Lowe Lintas & Partners in New York, part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group, which produced the Splenda television ads. "And that's without accounting for inflation."
Executives in charge of Nutrasweet, generically known as aspartame and sold to consumers as Equal, confirmed that ad spending is down. Part of the reason is that in 1992, the patent held by Monsanto expired, which opened the field to competing manufacturers, said Nick Rosa, the president and chief executive of Nutrasweet's sweetener ingredient division, which was sold earlier this year by Monsanto to J. W. Childs Equity Partners.
No new advertising is planned in response to Splenda, he added, noting the lessons of the past. "When we launched Equal's tabletop sweetener, instead of cannibalizing Sweet 'n' Low, both businesses grew," he said.
Still, executives at Merisant, which owns the Equal consumer business, indicated they planned a campaign of their own. "We have plans to address the opportunity that there will be increased consumer interest in the category with another competitor," said Dan Beck, general manager for North America. "And we are confident they will choose Equal."
McNeil is betting that Splenda's distinguishing characteristics -- it is derived from sugar and can be used in cooking -- will turn out to be strong selling points. In sucralose, three of the hydrogen-oxygen groups in each sugar molecule are replaced with chlorine atoms. The effect is that the sweetener is not absorbed into the body, meaning there are no calories to burn off later.
The process was discovered by researchers in Britain in 1976 and was approved for consumer use by the Food and Drug Administration two years ago. Since then, it has become an ingredient in an array of foods and beverages, including Diet Rite cola, Swiss Miss sugar-free cocoa mix and Diet V8 Splash. It can withstand heat, making it unusual among artificial sweeteners. Now its promoters want to build up its image with consumers and persuade them to buy it in stores. The target audience is mostly women 35 and older, with busy lives involving lots of demands on their time and yet an inclination to bake. Diabetics are also being singled out through the company's Web site and other efforts with doctors.
"What we have found is, the proposition that resonates with consumers is the fact that Splenda is made from sugar and tastes like sugar," said Debra A. Sandler, McNeil's vice president for worldwide marketing. "The ads will focus on the origins of the products as well as the versatility of the product."
That versatility, particularly the idea of using Splenda in baking, will be a chief selling point. The product can be poured and measured in the same proportions as white sugar, Ms. Sandler said, although it weighs far less and looks more like powdered sugar than the granulated kind. Other artificial sweeteners have focused squarely and almost exclusively on the table top and the coffee wagon. Ms. Sandler sees the cooking realm as a big part of potential sales.
"Upwards of 75 percent of the low-calorie sweetener category is the packet," she said. "We feel there is an opportunity to grow the whole category, particularly the granular."
To do that, the company is distributing recipes, both on laminated cards and on its Web site at www.splenda.com. Predictably, many of the recipes are for pies and cakes, but others are for dishes like "Sweet and Spicy Shrimp." Samples of Splenda are being handed out in stores and other public places.
At the same time, McNeil also wants to be sure Splenda is a contender for use in coffee and tea. A partnership with 7-Eleven will feature Splenda in radio ads and put packets of it next to Equal and Sweet 'n' Low in the chain's 5,200 stores, beginning this month.
"We saw it as a win-win-win proposition," said Alan Beach, 7-Eleven's category manager for hot beverages. "We worked out a very extensive agreement that included a lot of different pieces."
While similar partnerships have been formed in the past, "every product doesn't have the opportunities this one does," he added. "It's new, it's unique and it has a lot of benefits."
McNeil is also distributing coupons for Splenda in newspapers. The sweetener is expensive compared with regular sugar but comparable to other artificial sweeteners. A 55-gram box of Splenda costs $2.50, a company spokeswoman said, and is the equivalent for cooking purposes of a pound of sugar.
The company also signed Mia Hamm, the soccer player, to help promote the brand at an event earlier this month in New York. Ms. Hamm cited a story, commissioned by McNeil, that ranked United States cities by sugar consumption.
Leading the pack was New Orleans, which could not have been a surprise, considering a propensity for pralines and an annual event called the Sugar Bowl. Ms. Hamm urged her audience to cut back on their calories by using Splenda and received a check from McNeil for her foundation, which promotes women's sports and finances research on bone-marrow disease.
The television ads, scheduled to be broadcast in January, have been years in the conceptualizing, Mr. Walsh said. "It's important for us to put a contemporary twist on this," he said, while declining to give any details, except that there will be no dancing molecules.
"We have done a significant amount of research on this, and consumers are very excited about this," Mr. Walsh said. "The demand for that silver bullet, food products that taste good and are also good for you, is eternal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The soccer player Mia Hamm introduces a campaign for Splenda, a new sweetener made by McNeil. (FPS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); MON (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MCNEIL CONSUMER PRODUCTS CO; LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); MCNEIL SPECIALTY PRODUCTS CO (57%); MONSANTO CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCNEIL CONSUMER PRODUCTS CO; LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (55%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: SWEETENERS, ARTIFICIAL; ADVERTISING; SUCRALOSE (ARTIFICIAL SWEETENER) ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (96%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (95%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); FOOD ADDITIVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHEMICALS (86%); CHEMICALS MFG (86%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); SOFT DRINKS (62%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L DEBRA A SANDLER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



682 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Brown Brothers Makes Offer on Site in Battery Park City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Brown Brothers Harriman & Company and a developer have made an offer to buy control of a site in Battery Park City where the bank plans to build a new waterfront headquarters.
But the bank first has to negotiate a complicated series of special zoning changes and tax breaks with both state and city officials and come to terms with the Battery Park City Authority on a price for the land. 
 Brown Brothers, the oldest private commercial bank in the nation, has searched fitfully for a new home over the last four years. It had looked at the vacant waterfront parcel earlier this year before it found space at the top of a tower at the nearby World Financial Center. But when the bank failed to move quickly and lost the space, real estate executives said, it turned its attention back to the land on the Hudson River waterfront.
Brown Brothers and the developer, Brookfield Financial Properties, have proposed building a 23-story glass tower just north of the New York Mercantile Exchange in Battery Park City. The bank, whose headquarters has been on Wall Street for 157 years, would own and occupy about half the 800,000-square-foot building, while Brookfield would control the rest, Battery Park City officials said.
The authority, the state agency that controls the site, had planned on selling the development rights for the parcel to the highest bidder, for an apartment house. But city officials asked the state authority to accommodate the bank and to amend the master plan for Battery Park City so that a commercial tower could be built there.
Fearful that Brown Brothers would make good on a threat to move to New Jersey, the city's Economic Development Corporation has gone to great lengths to help the bank find a new home. But real estate executives scoffed at the idea that Brown Brothers, the epitome of an old money, white-shoe bank, would move its headquarters out of Manhattan, although it does have an office and 550 employees at the Newport Office Tower in Jersey City.
In any event, last week Brookfield made an undisclosed offer for the site that fell short of what the authority wanted. Timothy S. Carey, president of the authority, said he was putting together a counteroffer and expected negotiations to accelerate. He said he wanted to get the full value of the property, a rare downtown development site.
"We're looking for a return on our investment," Mr. Carey said. "The tax breaks are a negotiation between the developer and the city."
Michael Carey, president of the Economic Development Corporation, did not return calls requesting comment.
Radford W. Klotz, a partner at Brown Brothers, and Richard Clark, president of Brookfield, said that the two companies were working together on a proposed project at Battery Park City. But they declined to discuss details of the negotiations.
While it is no longer a powerhouse, Brown Brothers still has a list of wealthy clients and about 850 employees at its historic home at 63 Wall Street. It moved an operations center to Jersey City in 1994.
For the last four years, as it searched for a new home, the bank has considered a number of sites, including 350 Madison Avenue and 875 Third Avenue in Midtown, and 100 Broadway and 125 Broad Street downtown.
But an agreement was never reached, and, as the search dragged on, rents skyrocketed and the prospect of a deal became more and more expensive.
Even after the bank began talks with city officials about Battery Park City earlier this year, Brown Brothers focused on space available at the top of 1 World Financial Center.
But Lehman Brothers moved more quickly, according to real estate executives, and has struck a tentative deal for the space. So Brown Brothers went back to the waterfront site three weeks ago and selected Brookfield to be the developer.
The Brown Brothers search was complicated by the lack of vacant space downtown and in Midtown. To try to stem the resulting rent increases and the flow of companies to New Jersey, the Battery Park City Authority is about to put a large separate parcel up for sale that could accommodate a 1.8-million-square-foot tower.
The city is selling another vacant site, at Murray and Greenwich Streets. The Brown Brothers tower would also help, since it would include 400,000 square feet of space for other tenants.
But, even if the deal for the waterfront property does not work out, few brokers believe that Brown Brothers, which closed its brokerage business in May and laid off 78 investment analysts and traders, is going anywhere outside of Manhattan. "They're not leaving the city," said one prominent broker who has talked with Brown Brothers. "It's not a critical mass of jobs anyway."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of New York City highlighting Battery Park City: Brown Brothers and a developer have proposed a 23-story tower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO; BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (96%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO; BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BATTERY PARK CITY (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V RICHARD T CLARK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



683 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: FOCUS ON THE ISSUES;
Comparing Social Security Proposals

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
With the population about to get decidedly older and the nation enjoying a moment of prosperity, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush agree that now is the time to put Social Security on sound footing for generations to come.
But their deep differences about how to do so have made the future of the retirement system one of the most supercharged issues of the presidential campaign, and the first test of whether Social Security's status as politically untouchable has been altered by the fact that more than half of all households now own stocks. 
 The debate has turned vigorous and occasionally nasty in the campaign's final weeks, with each campaign throwing around big numbers to suggest that the other side's approach is irresponsible.
Mr. Gore, playing to older voters who turn out reliably at the polls, has been asserting that Mr. Bush's plan would drain from the system $1 trillion needed to pay benefits to current retirees. Casting themselves as the true reformers, Mr. Bush, of Texas, and his advisers said Mr. Gore's plan would saddle today's young people with $40 trillion in debt.
Each side has a point, though each is arguably exaggerating to make it. In any case, neither candidate's plan by itself would assure Social Security's solvency for the next 75 years, the benchmark the system uses to assess its financial stability. And both candidates have avoided acknowledging that fully restoring Social Security's health would almost inevitably require choosing from among a menu of politically painful options including benefit reductions and tax increases.
"When you look at the big picture, neither of them has solved the whole problem or addressed the details and the pain issue," said Ron Gebhardtsbauer, senior pension fellow at the American Academy of Actuaries, a nonpartisan research organization.
Driven by projections that the retirement system will run short of the money it needs to pay all benefits within a few decades, both candidates are proposing what would be the most sweeping changes to Social Security since its inception in 1935.
Mr. Bush wants to harness the power of the financial markets by allowing individuals to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in stocks and bonds.
Mr. Gore wants to leave the system unchanged and maintain the current level of guaranteed benefits even as the number of retirees grows substantially. To do so he would supplement payroll tax revenues with general income tax receipts. Separately, he has proposed tax incentives to help low and middle income people save for retirement outside of Social Security.
While Mr. Bush's proposal would bring more far-reaching changes to the system, each approach is revolutionary in its own way.
Mr. Bush's plan would move the system away from its identity as a collective pact under which each generation of workers helps support the retirement of its predecessors. The Bush plan would nudge the system in the direction of having each worker save for his or her own retirement, shifting both opportunities and risks to individuals.
Mr. Gore's plan would end the tradition of Social Security being wholly self-financed through the payroll tax, and in the long run would require higher taxes, reduced spending or additional government borrowing. Critics say the change would undermine support for Social Security by making it more like welfare than a pension, a pawn in the unceasing battle over taxes and spending.
Social Security's difficulties are rooted in demographic trends. As the population ages, the proportion of working people to retirees is declining. In 1960, there were more than 5 workers for every Social Security beneficiary; today there are 3.3, and by 2030 the figure will be 2.
Those proportions are important because of the way Social Security raises money to pay benefits. Workers and their employers split a 12.4 percent payroll tax. But the levy is not set aside to pay benefits for the workers who pay it; rather, it goes to pay benefits to current retirees.
Right now the system is generating more than enough money to pay all benefits. Payroll tax receipts will exceed benefit payments by more than $900 billion over the next decade, allowing the system to invest that surplus in government bonds. If interest payments from the bonds are included, the surplus over the next 10 years will be more than $2 trillion.
But that favorable situation will deteriorate rapidly as the 76 million baby boomers begin retiring. By 2015, payroll tax revenue will no longer cover benefit payments.
At that point, Social Security will need to start drawing on the interest income from its bond holdings -- the Social Security Trust Fund. That means the government will have to start appropriating money out of general tax revenues each year to begin supporting Social Security.
By 2025, even the combination of payroll tax revenue and interest payments on the bonds will no longer cover benefits, forcing the system to redeem the bonds it holds.
If nothing is done, Social Security will have exhausted its store of bonds in 2037, leaving it totally reliant on payroll tax revenue to pay benefits. Payroll taxes at that point would cover just over 70 percent of promised benefits.
Mr. Bush's plan would allow workers to place into their own investment accounts each year a little more than one-sixth of what they and their employers currently contribute directly to Social Security -- that is, 2 percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax.
The idea is that workers would benefit from the higher rates of return available over the long run in the financial markets. Increasing the rate of return would narrow the gap between what Social Security can afford to pay in benefits and what it has promised.
Mr. Bush's plan would be voluntary. People who are retired or near retirement would not see any changes in benefits.
For those who do participate, Mr. Bush has said, there would be a menu of relatively safe and conservative investment options available.
But his approach creates problems that Mr. Bush avoids discussing. The most immediate is that allowing workers to place a portion of their payroll taxes in a private accounts reduces the amount of money available to pay benefits.
Prodded by Mr. Gore in their final debate last week, Mr. Bush acknowledged that he would need to use $1 trillion out of the surplus over the next decade to cover the shortfall created by the establishment of personal accounts.
Because Social Security is projected to run a surplus of more than $2 trillion during that period, using $1 trillion for private accounts would not immediately imperil the system's ability to pay full benefits to current retirees, as Mr. Gore has implied it would.
But it would substantially move up the date at which Social Security would run through its store of bonds and become completely reliant on payroll tax revenue.
According to the Gore camp, diverting two percentage points of the payroll tax into personal investment accounts would exhaust the trust fund in 2023, 14 years earlier than under the current system. In 2024, assuming no other changes are made, the system would be short of the money needed to pay benefits by hundreds of billions of dollars.
One partial solution would be to reduce the guaranteed Social Security benefit for those people participating in the private accounts plan. The idea would be that the investment returns from the private account, plus the reduced guaranteed benefit, would still leave retirees, at least those young enough to have participated in the plan, just as well off.
But Mr. Bush and his advisers have declined to say if they would reduce the guaranteed benefit, a step that would clearly open a new line of attack for Mr. Gore.
Indeed, Mr. Bush has not been willing to provide any details of how their plan would work, saying the specifics would have to be hashed out in a bipartisan way between Congress and a Bush administration.
A guide to what a complete Bush plan might look like comes from similar plans introduced in Congress in recent years. All of them would cut guaranteed benefits, pump substantial amounts of general revenues into the system or require individuals to return to the system a portion of their investment gains from the personal accounts.
The possible benefit cuts include such politically unpopular steps as raising the retirement age and reducing annual cost of living adjustments. And Mr. Bush has not given any indication of whether or how workers would be insulated from the risk of a stock market downturn around the time they retire.
Mr. Gore's approach would dedicate nearly all of the Social Security surplus to paying off the $3.4 trillion national debt within a dozen years.
Starting in 2011, Mr. Gore would then allocate to Social Security, out of general tax revenues, an amount equal to the interest saved from debt reduction -- $250 billion a year by 2016. The additional money, and the interest paid on it, would extend the system's solvency to 2054 from 2037.
On Monday, Mr. Bush said the revenue transferred to Social Security by Mr. Gore's plan, plus interest, would total nearly $40 trillion over four decades ending in 2050. That huge sum, Mr. Bush said, would weigh down the economy and future generations of taxpayers.
Aides to Mr. Gore said the $40 trillion number had to be considered in the context of the size of the problem. Using the same type of calculation, they said, Mr. Bush's plan would require $57 trillion between 2023 and 2054 to keep the system solvent, unless Mr. Bush was willing to reduce guaranteed benefit payments or increase the payroll tax.
Still, Mr. Gore's reliance on general revenues means much of the bill would be borne by people decades down the road in the form of higher taxes, reduced spending or increased borrowing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "Saving Social Security"
Both candidates are proposing substantial but very different changes to keep the retirement system solvent.
 
BASIC APPROACH
 
GEORGE W. BUSH
 
Would create personal investment accounts within the retirement system, seeking to use the higher returns historically available on Wall Street to help fill the financial hole facing Social Security. Would allow workers to invest in stocks and bonds 2 percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax withheld from their checks.
 
ADVANTAGES
 
Would allow all workers a chance to build wealth on Wall Street. Would be a start on shifting Social Security from a "pay as you go" system under which current workers pay for benefits to current retirees -- an approach that becomes increasingly difficult to sustain as the population ages -- to a "pre-funded" system under which each worker saves for his or her own retirement.
 
DRAWBACKS
 
Subjects workers to the risk inherent in volatile financial markets. By diverting money into personal accounts, moves up the date at which Social Security can no longer pay full benefits using payroll taxes. Would not by itself keep Social Security solvent over the long run, and the additional steps needed to do so, including cuts in the guaranteed benefit, are politically unattractive.
 
AL GORE
 
BASIC APPROACH
 
Has proposed using nearly all of the Social Security surplus to pay off the $3.4 trillion national debt over the next dozen years, and then channel the interest savings back into the retirement system. Would result in annual payments to the system that would rise to $250 billion a year in 2016 and would continue through 2050.
 
ADVANTAGES
 
Maintains Social Security as an intergenerational compact that guarantees all workers a retirement benefit based on their lifetime earnings. Has ruled out any increase in the retirement age. Also contains an increase in benefits for elderly women, a group that frequently has high poverty rates.
 
DRAWBACKS
 
Would push most of the bill for keeping the system solvent onto future generations. Would require money each year from general revenues, forcing Social Security to compete with other priorities for money. Would extend solvency to 2054 from 2037, but does not address the painful choices that would be necessary to keep the system afloat for 75 years, the accepted benchmark for financial health.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (72%); BONDS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); POVERTY RATES (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



684 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Bond Market Signals Worry Over Economy

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The bond markets appear to be signaling that America should be more worried about an economic slowdown than about the prospects of higher inflation. Are bond investors -- who have been pretty good at spying clouds on the horizon well before the rest of the world -- right this time?
On Monday, investors retreating to the safe haven of United States Treasury securities pushed yields to their lows for the year. Government bonds have weakened a bit since then, but the yield on the five-year Treasury note, at 5.72 percent, is down from 5.9 percent in early October. The security maturing in two years is yielding 5.89 percent. 
 At the same time, high-yield bonds issued by corporations have plunged in price and rocketed in yield. The Merrill Lynch high-yield corporate bond index carried a yield of 13.24 percent yesterday; in September 1998, when economies around the world seemed at the precipice, the yield was just 10.28 percent.
You would expect a flight to Treasuries as investors react to the unrest in the Middle East, the ravaging of technology stocks and recent problems at old-line companies like Eastman Kodak and Xerox. The surprise is that the Treasury market's meteoric rise -- and the corresponding fall in yields -- comes at a time when inflation is rising.
Today's announcement of the employment cost index, a closely watched inflation measure, will give the market more information about where costs are headed. But from other data it is already clear that inflation is higher than it has been in a decade.
Yet real returns on government bonds -- that is, returns adjusted for inflation -- are at extremely low rates of around 2.5 percent, down from around 4 percent earlier this year. Numbers like those are hardly what you would expect from a market worried about rising prices.
Why parse the numbers so closely? For investors interested in divining where the economy is headed, the bond market's gyrations have been worth following in recent years. For example, in December 1994, when the economy was growing at 3.5 percent, yields on the 10-year Treasury bond peaked around 7.81 percent and began to slip, reaching about 6.2 percent six months later. What bond investors had spied was a decline in economic growth in the United States. By the end of 1995, growth had fallen to 2 percent.
Bond investors have also signaled significant risks in the financial system in recent years. In 1998, for example, the bond market bottomed in May and by July had moved up almost a half percentage point, driving yields lower. A month later, news that Russia had defaulted on its debt rocked the markets -- tremors that worsened with the bailout in September of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund. In retrospect, it is clear the bond market had sensed the speculative excesses in both the United States and overseas.
Some observers dismiss the rising price of bonds as solely the result of the government's repurchases of Treasury debt. With investors chasing fewer bonds, they argue, bond prices are sure to rise. But others say this cannot be the whole story, if only because investors have been aware of the government buybacks for months.
Unlike in 1998, the bond market is not foretelling systemic risk, says Stan Jonas, managing director at Fimat U.S.A., a brokerage firm in New York. Rather, he contends, it is reacting to more specific risks associated with individual companies, like Xerox, that are experiencing problems with earnings or with their overall businesses.
"It's a very different horror show than before," Mr. Jonas said. "It's about creative destruction. People are very frightened about individual credit risk; they don't know which one of these companies will survive."
Still, falling Treasury bond yields have often presaged a recession or an economic slowdown. Some economists have begun to fear that the Federal Reserve will not be able to manage the wished-for economic soft landing -- and to warn that investors should get ready for a bumpy ride.
Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, worries that events in the Middle East could transform an orderly increase in energy prices into a classic oil shock. "That's the stuff of recession," he said, "a shock that hits the economy when it is already on a slippery down-slope." Mr. Roach said he thinks a hard landing by the middle of next year is highly probable.
If Mr. Roach is right, the Fed could cut interest rates, fueling a further rally in Treasury securities. That could explain why yields in the government market are as low as they are today.
But if bond investors are focusing on that scenario, they are ignoring an important piece of the inflation puzzle, according to Alan W. Kral, vice president for portfolio management at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. Mr. Kral pointed out that in the past three months, the broadest measure of money supply has been growing at an annualized rate of 11 percent.
"What we've got is a volatile economy caused by things like oil and capital spending potentially declining that is offset by the Fed providing tons of liquidity," Mr. Kral said. So while the Fed talks tough on inflation, its actions send a different message. "We see this great bulge in money supply as potentially resulting in inflation," he said.
Regardless, some observers think that the bond market's current behavior is a reflection of investors' staunch belief in Alan Greenspan's ability to save the day no matter what. In the event of a slowdown, "people are making a strong bet that the Fed will ease immediately," Mr. Jonas said.
Even more so, Mr. Kral says, today's Treasury bond yields reflect the fact that the investors known as the bond vigilantes are no longer around.
In the early to mid-1990's, these powerful investors -- people like Stanley F. Druckenmiller of Soros Fund Management and Louis Moore Bacon of Moore Capital Management -- made huge bets on government bonds. They had the upper hand in monetary policy, driving interest rates up when they thought they saw signs of inflation and pushing rates down when the price data looked benign. It was these vigilantes to whom the early Clinton administration economic policy makers were in thrall; the bond market's anxiety about inflation played a big part in the tax and spending policies that contributed to today's big budget surpluses.
"The bond vigilantes are gone, and the reason they are gone is that Greenspan has been elevated to a status that is enormous," Mr. Kral said. "The bond market may be saying, 'Alan's going to bail us out.' We bailed out Russia, we bailed out Long-Term Capital Management. Maybe some people are beginning to feel that Nasdaq is too big to fail."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Bond Prices Pull Back
 By Reuters
 Treasury bond prices sank yesterday despite weakness in technology shares as investors moved to take profits in government bonds ahead of key labor market and growth data later this week.
The decline in Treasury prices was cushioned somewhat by a dramatic dive of almost 6 percent in the technology-heavy Nasdaq stock index, which drove some investors to seek the safe haven of government issues.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32, to a price of 100 18/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.67 percent from 5.62 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 17/32, to 107 5/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.74 percent from 5.71 percent on Tuesday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price . . . 98.823
High Yield . . . 5.845%
Low Yield . . . 5.795%
Median Yield . . . 5.830%
Accepted at low price . . . 98%
Total applied for . . . $31,653,935
Accepted . . . $14,839,335
Noncompetitive . . . $959,502
Interest set at . . . 5 3/4
 
The 2-year notes mature Oct. 31, 2002.
 
Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"
Chart shows the average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly since June.
(Source: T.H.L.M.C)(pg. C13)
 
Chart: "2-Year Treasury Notes"
Chart shows high yields in percent since 1999.
(Source: Treasury Department)(pg. C13) 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN STEPHEN S ROACH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



685 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Poverty, Paradox and a 'Dear Leader'

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea, Oct. 25

 BODY:
When Kim Il Sung, the father of the current leader of North Korea, founded the Communist Party here in the 1940's, educated North Koreans say that he had an uncommon piece of wisdom. Unlike the Russians and the Chinese, they say, Mr. Kim respected intellectuals and embraced them as true members of the North Korean party.
Thus, the symbol of the party here is not just a hammer and a sickle, but also a paintbrush that appears on posters and badges between the two worker's tools. 
 Several young men who proudly described this to Western reporters called themselves "intellectuals," meaning they had gone to a university. They were assigned to baby-sit the Americans so that they would not stray beyond the official program of this week's visit by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. Their common attribute, aside from fealty to the "Dear Leader," Kim Jong Il, was their ability to speak English.
One of the men, a Mr. Li, 29, was single and lived at home with his parents. "Miss Right has not come along," he explained, using his very colloquial and fluent English.
A university English teacher, Mr. Li, who has never set foot outside North Korea, said he used American movies and books to encourage his students to learn English as it is spoken. He knew the story lines of Dustin Hoffman's movies by heart: "Hero," "Kramer vs. Kramer," "Rain Man" were among his favorites. John Grisham and Sidney Sheldon novels were among his basic texts. Combined with this seeming flair for American culture and an ability to crack jokes at his own expense, Mr. Li became almost childlike when it came to describing the Dear Leader. Recently, he said, he had proudly joined tens of thousands of others waving a pink pompom during a mass demonstration in honor of the leader.
 
Ghost Town of 2 Million
Where are all the people? Pyongyang, the showcase of the country, is supposed to have a population of two million. But with cars the preserve of a few privileged government officers, and bicycles not common either, the streets are usually empty, giving an eerie impression of an overbuilt ghost town. The most common form of transportation is by foot and it is not unusual for workers, clad in sneakers and ankle socks, to walk several miles to their jobs. Even so, around 9 a.m. when offices open, the sidewalks are not exactly packed with people.
There are some theories for the scarcity of humans. The first is that the economy is at such a low point -- the energy shortage has left factories idle -- that people stay home. Many have virtually no money and even if they did, there is nothing to spend it on. And that people have such meager diets that they are lethargic.
The second theory is that the city can sustain only about 1.5 million people but as hard times have swept the countryside, many more have sought comfort here. In response, the authorities have organized campaigns to sweep nonresidents back out of the capital, to join work gangs or help with the harvest.
 
Flown-In Feast
The Albright visit was packed with luncheons and dinners. Aside from the six hours of negotiations, the Americans and North Koreans spent another six hours socializing with each other. To thank her hosts, Dr. Albright threw a dinner on the last night of her visit in honor of Mr. Kim, his close aides and officials from the Foreign Ministry.
How does the State Department arrange a diplomatic dinner in North Korea, where there is little meat, few vegetables and shortages of almost everything else? And how does Dr. Albright live up to the standard she set when she invited the North Korean vice marshal, Jo Myong Rok, to a sparkling dinner at the State Department earlier this month with 150 top-drawer guests, including the French and British ambassadors?
The Americans asked the North Koreans for the use of a suitable locale and were given Magnolia Hall, a grand octagonal banquet room used for state occasions and replete with a large kitchen. North Korean cooks suggested dishes, which were approved by Dr. Albright's deputy chief of staff, Suzanne A. George. Some American touches were added: broiled steak and roast turkey, which the local Korean kitchen staff cooked along with the rest of the menu.
The ingredients for the dishes were the responsibility of the North Koreans (the meat was flown in from Beijing) and California wine was flown in on Dr. Albright's plane. The high point came when Dear Leader, Mr. Kim, ordered one of his most senior military officers to pour the wine for every guest at the head table. The officer did so with aplomb and drama, stopping after the pouring of each glass to make sure the recipient sampled the wine and exclaimed approval.
Afterward, the Americans said the evening was most memorable for the sight of a senior North Korean man offering wine to guests who, despite the aura of good feelings this week, formally remain the enemy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); FILM (65%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); KIM JONG IL KIM JONG IL (88%); JOHN GRISHAM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



686 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

AT&T Outlines Its Plan To Split Into Four Parts
AT&T pulled back from an expensive three-year effort to become the first one-stop shop selling long-distance, wireless, cable television and Internet services as a single package with a single bill. Instead, the company announced, it will break itself into four parts.
The nation's eighth-largest company, which only two decades ago dominated the telephone business and ranked with General Motors and Mobil among the nation's very largest companies, will soon be four much smaller businesses competing against many formidable, and sometimes larger, rivals. Page A1. 

Northwest Airlines Trial Delayed
A federal judge agreed to postpone a court battle in which the Justice Department is trying to force Northwest Airlines to sell its controlling stake in Continental Airlines. The closely watched trial was set to begin in Detroit today. But the judge pushed back the start to Nov. 1 at the request of Northwest, which asked for time to try to settle the case. C5.
 
Judge Puts Limits on Tax Company
Renaissance/The Tax People, which has been marketing a system to reduce income taxes that the authorities say is really a pyramid scheme, was ordered by a Kansas judge to stop soliciting new clients. Carla J. Stovall, the attorney general of Kansas, filed a civil lawsuit on Friday seeking to shut down the company, which is owned by Michael C. Cooper. But her office agreed in negotiations with lawyers for the company to allow the business to operate in limited fashion. C6.
 
Bond Trader Files More Complaints
A bond trader at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter who has accused the firm of sexual discrimination filed additional complaints with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, accusing Morgan Stanley of firing her on Tuesday in retaliation for her complaints. A spokesman for the firm confirmed that the trader, Allison K. Schieffelin, had been dismissed. C6.
 
CBS has agreed to pay $8 million to about 200 female technicians who said in a class-action lawsuit that they had been sexually harassed and discriminated against. C14.
 
AOL Asks to File Microsoft Brief
America Online asked a federal appeals court for permission to file a supporting brief in the appeal of the Microsoft antitrust case, noting that the plaintiffs in the case -- the federal government and 19 states -- support the idea while Microsoft opposes it. The company did not say what its brief might discuss, though it is clear that the brief will support the government's argument and a federal judge's rulings against Microsoft. C4.
 
For Team Owner, a Business Slump
For John W. Henry, who owns the Florida Marlins and has a minority stake in the New York Yankees, the World Series can help take his mind off his other business, an investment company. The Financial and Metals Portfolio, one of his largest and most aggressive funds, fell 18.7 percent last year and is down 17.4 percent this year. The assets of his investment group have been sliced to about $1 billion from $2.4 billion a year ago. C9.
 
Viacom Profit Beats Expectations
Viacom reported higher revenue and cash flow for its third quarter, but net income fell sharply on higher taxes and costs associated with its acquisition of CBS. The company earned $33.4 million, or 2 cents a share, compared with $96.7 million, or 14 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. Analysts had been expecting a loss of 2 cents a share. Shares of Viacom fell $2.44, to $53.94. C10.
 
September Home Resales Fell 2.7%
Sales of previously owned homes fell 2.7 percent in September to a pace that still shows a vigorous economy, a report showed. C5.
 
Gore Muddles His Economic Ideas
Since the political conventions, Vice President Al Gore has emphasized the fiscal discipline of his agenda and referred less to programs for working families, confusing his message in the process. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart tracks Viacom share prices since last Wednesday.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,326.48 down 66.59
Nasdaq composite -- 3,229.57 down 190.22
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.67% up 0.05
The euro -- $0.8281 down 0.0091
The dollar -- 108.14 yen up 0.17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); AOL INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BONDS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); JUDGES (88%); BASEBALL (83%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); WIRELESS CABLE (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (68%); APPEALS (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ALBERT GORE JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



687 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Team in the Series and a Business in the Doldrums

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
If you squinted over Paul O'Neill's shoulder, past Todd Pratt and around the home plate umpire, you might have seen John W. Henry Saturday night in Yankee Stadium. Mr. Henry, a genial and soft-spoken man of 51, is a farmer's son living in a field of dreams.
First, the good dreams. Mr. Henry owns one major league team, the Florida Marlins, and has a minority stake in the New York Yankees. His four seats in Yankee Stadium are next to the opposing dugout, close enough to get him a piece of the bat that shall go down in infamy, at least for Mets fans. (For the record, a bat boy actually gave a piece of the bat to a Merrill Lynch executive who was a guest of Mr. Henry. It was the middle of the bat Mike Piazza shattered in Game Two, not the top shard that Roger Clemens tossed Piazza's way.) 
 Then there are the bad dreams -- the market. Since the middle of last year, it has been a nightmare for Mr. Henry, the manager of his own investment company, John W. Henry & Company, based in Boca Raton, Fla. The Financial and Metals Portfolio, one of his largest and most aggressive funds, fell 18.7 percent last year and is down 17.4 percent this year. And thanks to that performance and investors' withdrawal of funds, the assets of his investment group have been sliced from $2.4 billion a year ago to about $1 billion today.
Recently, Mr. Henry significantly reduced the fees he charges and announced a plan to consolidate his operations by shutting his firm's second office, in Westport, Conn.
Mr. Henry and professional investors like him use complex systems and formulas to trade futures contracts, which promise the delivery of an asset like a commodity or a stock index on a future date at a set price. Futures contracts become more or less valuable when the value of the underlying asset -- for example, the stock index or the commodity -- changes.
Managed futures money managers like Mr. Henry follow trends in the global market, looking for price discrepancies that they can take advantage of -- fluctuations in the euro, in the price of oil or in interest rates. But until the Middle East crisis and the spike in oil prices, there were few global upsets like the Asian crisis of 1998 for these money managers the last few years.
Shifting global economic conditions and bad bets on such trends have burned many prominent money managers recently. The roster of pain includes two of the world's most prominent hedge fund managers: this year, Julian H. Robertson Jr. shuttered his Tiger Investment empire and George Soros sharply scaled back his operations.
But while Mr. Soros and Mr. Robertson manage hedge funds, investment funds that cater to the wealthy, managed futures funds such as Mr. Henry's have investment minimums that can be as low as mutual funds'. One of Mr. Henry's funds has been available through Merrill Lynch, so some average investors are experiencing his troubles up close.
Though Mr. Henry and other managed futures managers use a different approach from Mr. Soros and Mr. Robertson, some of the same trends have hurt them all.
The managed futures industry has been "battered almost beyond recognition in the past couple years," said Barry Colvin, chief operating officer of Tremont Advisers, a hedge fund consulting firm.
"These kinds of fund managers need turmoil. They need global macroeconomic volatility," he said.
Managed futures is a particularly volatile area of fund management. But in a field where money managers frequently go under, Mr. Henry is known as a survivor. Despite his firm's record this year, his Financial and Metals fund has returned 28 percent, on average, every year since its inception in October 1982, well ahead of the 17.7 percent annual gain of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the same period.
Still, while technology investors enjoyed unmatched gains last year, Mr. Henry and others in the managed futures industry suffered.
"Over the last three years, you could argue that this industry has no place in anyone's portfolio," Mr. Henry said. But that proves nothing about the future, he argued. "Things are dynamic," Mr. Henry said. "What did work for the last couple years is not necessarily where you want to be the next three years."
October has been a relatively encouraging month for his funds' performance. Surging oil prices, tensions in the Middle East and the continuing slide of technology stocks have all contributed to a rebound for Mr. Henry's funds. His Financial and Metals fund was up 11.6 percent for October, as of Tuesday.
Mr. Henry's introduction to futures was something of a crash course. When he was 25, his father died, and he took over his family's 2,000-acre farm, which was mostly in Arkansas, and taught himself hedging techniques. As he learned how to market his crops and protect against weather and price fluctuations, he had a few lucky early trades and decided to make futures his business instead of farming.
His love of baseball goes back further.
"I grew up listening to Harry Caray," the legendary announcer, he said.
"My father had a brain tumor when I was 8 years old and he was taken to the hospital in St. Louis," he added. "The St. Louis coach was staying at the same hotel where we were staying and heard the story and heard I was just a complete fan, knew all the statistics, so he offered me his seats."
"I sat through a doubleheader one day that week and ended up in the same hospital as my father," he remembered. "I had heat stroke -- St. Louis in the summer," he said.
"It was just magical," he added. "I'd been listening on the radio but I'd never seen a game. So my ambition in life became to move to St. Louis someday and get a job that would enable me to afford season tickets so I could go to 80 games a year."
He got his season tickets -- albeit to the Yankees -- when he bought 1 percent of the team in 1991. But his ultimate dream -- to own a team -- came true when he bought the Marlins in January 1999 for $150 million.
Major League Baseball rules stipulate that one cannot own one team and have a stake in another. Since he bought the Marlins, Mr. Henry has promised to sell his Yankees stake a few times, but he has yet to part with it. Is there a deadline for divesting himself of the Bronx bombers and the ringside seats?
"I think I've passed that," he admits. "Something will probably get done in 2001."
One thing is certain. As performance goes, the Yankees sure beat the futures market.
"As long as they send me a ring every year," said Mr. Henry, "I can't complain."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Henry runs his own money management company in Boca Raton, Fla., trading in futures contracts, owns the Florida Marlins baseball team and holds a minority stake in the New York Yankees. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HENRY, JOHN W, & CO; NEW YORK YANKEES; FLORIDA MARLINS MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JOHN W HENRY & CO INC (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (91%); NEW YORK METS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HENRY, JOHN W, & CO; NEW YORK YANKEES; FLORIDA MARLINS NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); FLORIDA MARLINS (91%); NEW YORK METS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; BASEBALL BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); FUTURES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (87%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); BONDS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; HENRY, JOHN W GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



688 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Lautenberg to Raise Funds as Term's End Nears

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, N.J. Oct. 25

 BODY:
Frank R. Lautenberg is not leaving quietly or easily.
"It feels lousy," said Mr. Lautenberg, who tells anyone who asks that, in hindsight, he regrets his decision to retire from the Senate after 18 years in office. "I'm going to miss this place." 
 Still, Mr. Lautenberg's final days in office have been a whirlwind of last-minute lawmaking, campaigning for Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic nominee to succeed him, and figuring out what to do with the rest of his life. As if that were not enough, he is still hoping to raise nearly $400,000 to pay off some old campaign debts.
The senator's third term does not expire until Dec. 31, but his careerwill effectively end as soon as Congress adjourns, probably within the next few days.
Mr. Lautenberg, 76, is leaving at the height of his influence.
On Monday, President Clinton signed a bill Mr. Lautenberg had pushed for since 1997 into a law that lowers the legal threshold for drunken driving to a blood alcohol level of 0.08 percent.
It was a fitting bookend to the senator's 1984 law that raised the drinking age nationally to 21; both bills made federal highway financing contingent on states changing their laws. "He is leaving a true legacy as a champion for the children, the families and the economy of this nation," the president said at a Rose Garden bill-signing ceremony.
And on Tuesday, after Mr. Lautenberg called his home state "retarded" on the issue of drunken driving in a news conference in Trenton, New Jersey officials quickly indicated they would be likely to comply with the lower blood-alcohol limit.
Two weeks ago, the Senate passed Mr. Lautenberg's measure to allow victims of terrorism to collect court-awarded damages from countries that sponsor terrorist activity.
He also won $500 million for construction of the New Jersey Transit's Hudson-Bergen Light Rail Line. And still awaiting approval is one bill providing $10 billion in bonds to develop high-speed passenger rail service and another promoting the cleanup and redevelopment of polluted industrial properties.
Mr. Lautenberg has also played an important role in Mr. Corzine's campaign to succeed him. For instance, after the first New Jersey Senate debate, which Mr. Lautenberg attended, the senator defended Mr. Corzine, who angered some Jewish voters by saying that he supported the Clinton administration's abstention from a United Nations vote condemning Israel over its recent confrontations with Palestinians.
Meanwhile Mr. Lautenberg is doing what retiring senators do. He is soaking up accolades, such as the naming of the old federal courthouse and post-office building in Newark in his honor; arranging for the transfer of his papers to a new archive at Rutgers University; and musing over what possible role he might play in a Gore administration. (Democratic headhunters, be advised: he is not interested in an ambassadorship because it would require him to spend too much time away from his eight grandchildren.)
But Mr. Lautenberg's most difficult and awkward remaining chore, he said, is to hold one last campaign fund-raiser. "I'd like to do it as soon as we can," he said.
At a time when Mr. Corzine is under enormous criticism for spending more than $50 million of his own fortune for his Senate campaign, it seems almost quaint to recall that Mr. Lautenberg -- one of the wealthiest members of the Senate, whose own assets are worth between $11 million and $56 million, according to his Senate financial disclosures -- was criticized for trying to buy his own initial election in 1982 for $5.5 million. Mr. Lautenberg, who had made his fortune as a founder of Automatic Data Processing, contributed most of that from his own pocket. Like many wealthy candidates, he lent the money to his campaign; about $3.2 million in those loans remain on his campaign's books. But Mr. Lautenberg said that he had written off the 1982 debt in his mind.
He said he still hoped to recover what he borrowed in 1994, however. That year, facing a challenge from Chuck Haytaian, then the Republican Assembly speaker, Mr. Lautenberg raised $5.5 million. But he still needed a $900,000 infusion just three weeks before the election. His campaign borrowed the money from Valley National Bank in Wayne, N.J., and has since paid off all but $390,000, records from the Federal Election Commission show.
"I contributed to my race in 1982," he said. "I didn't like it, and I didn't want to do it again. But I did it a lot more modestly in '94. But that's still out there, and I'd like to get it paid off."
The 1994 loans are guaranteed personally by Mr. Lautenberg -- meaning that if he is unable to raise the entire $390,000 from others, he will have to pay off the rest himself. "If I fall short, I fall short," the senator said. "I still owe it to the bank, so I've got to pay."
But he bristled at the prospect of having to do so. "I may be fairly well off, but $400,000 is a lot of money," he said. "And there's a principle involved with me. Why should I have to pay to represent people when people think I did a good job?"
Mr. Lautenberg's associates say he was always a reluctant fund-raiser, and often deferred his own campaign financing efforts to other Democrats with more pressing financial needs. After his 1994 re-election, he waited three years to hold a major fund-raising event, a December 1997 gala at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark. He mainly used the proceeds to retire earlier debts.
After he announced in February 1999 that he would not seek re-election, Mr. Lautenberg said, he was too busy to raise money, and decided to wait until after Nov. 7 so as not to compete for contributions with Mr. Corzine and Democratic congressional candidates.
Still, he said, he was confident it was not too late to put together a tribute to himself -- especially because he is counting on the help of such formidable fund-raisers as Mr. Corzine himself.
Mr. Lautenberg said he had asked Mr. Corzine for help raising money to pay off his debts when the two were getting to know each other, some time before he endorsed the candidate in February. Mr. Corzine agreed to help raise money, he said. Some campaign finance experts questioned the timing of Mr. Lautenberg's request for such help, especially given that the senator's outstanding campaign debts are essentially to himself.
But Mr. Lautenberg stressed that his understanding with Mr. Corzine -- which has not yet come to fruition -- had nothing to do with his endorsement. "It was never a deal," he said. "It was never a handshake. It was never, 'O.K., Frank, you do this for me, I'll do that for you.' "
The senator said he had far more important reasons for backing Mr. Corzine -- like his longstanding differences with former Gov. Jim Florio, the other Democrat running in the primary, and his belief that Mr. Corzine could be a force in the Senate on issues like fiscal policy, the environment and transportation.
He added: "Jon Corzine couldn't have bought my endorsement a hell of a lot more than $400,000."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Lautenberg said he planned to spend part of his last two months in the Senate raising money to cover debts from his 1994 campaign. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); FAMILY (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); DAMAGES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); BONDS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; LAUTENBERG, FRANK R (SEN) FRANK LAUTENBERG (94%); JON CORZINE (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



689 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: In America;
At Last, the Issues

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Lesson number one: Be careful what you wish for.
Not too long ago Al Gore was howling that he would debate George W. Bush anytime, anywhere. The debates were supposed to nail down the election for Mr. Gore. They nearly buried him. 
 But now that the debates are over the polls are showing some movement back toward the vice president, which should tell you something. The less he's seen, the better he does.
Mr. Bush has a similar problem. He's fine as long as he's shaking hands and smiling and hugging little children. He's got personality. But something weird happens when he puts aside his programmed responses and starts speaking extemporaneously.
So there he was in LaCrosse, Wis., last week, proclaiming, "Families is where our nation finds hope, where wings take dream."
His handlers hate when that happens.
Mr. Gore's personality problems and voter concern over Mr. Bush's readiness to assume the presidency have muted enthusiasm for both men and drawn attention away from issues that might otherwise have been decisive.
A Page 1 article in Monday's Times said: "Even after absorbing three debates and months of campaigning, American voters are thoroughly ambivalent about their choices for president, still vexed by doubts about Vice President Al Gore's sincerity and Gov. George W. Bush's preparedness for the White House, the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll shows."
The doubts will likely remain. But with less than two weeks to go until Election Day, and with the debates over, the media can be expected to focus less on personality and more on what should be the real issues of this campaign.
That sigh of relief you just heard is coming from the Gore people. The vice president's personality has gotten in the way of his message throughout the campaign. Even at the Democratic convention, where it was generally agreed that Mr. Gore delivered a credible acceptance speech, the strongest case for continuing the policies of the Clinton administration was made by the president.
Referring to his budget proposal in the first year of his first administration, Bill Clinton told the convention's roaring delegates: "It passed by a single vote in both houses. In a deadlocked Senate, Al Gore cast the tie-breaking vote. Now, not a single Republican supported it. . . . Their leaders said our plan would increase the deficit, kill jobs, and give us a one-way ticket to a recession. Time has not been kind to their predictions."
Moments later, he added, "You know, Harry Truman's old saying has never been more true: If you want to live like a Republican, you better vote for the Democrats."
Mr. Clinton is itching to take that message to the American people one more time. But polls have tended to show that Bill Clinton campaigning full-blast for Al Gore would turn off substantially more voters than he would turn on. So the big dog remains leashed.
If, finally, the spotlight is turned away from Al Gore's personality, the last days of this campaign are likely to focus on the differences between the two candidates on the following: the fate of Social Security and the budget surplus, tax cuts, appointments to the Supreme Court, abortion, federal aid to public education, the environment and a variety of health care issues, including the future of Medicare, proposed prescription drug benefits and the establishment of a so-called patients' bill of rights.
At first it was thought these issues would get a thorough airing in the debates. But the debates became dreary popularity contests refereed by pundits obsessed with declaring an instant winner and loser. If we've learned anything from this campaign it's that the debate formats should be changed (and additional questioners added) in an effort to make them more informative for the voters.
The trends to watch over the next several days are whether Al Gore can keep the personality questions behind him and get a bounce from hammering home the differences between him and Mr. Bush on specific issues, and whether Mr. Bush, in the pressurized finale of a presidential campaign, can avoid being undermined by voter unease over whether he is ready for the White House. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; DEBATING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FAMILY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (65%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); BUDGETS (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



690 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Talks Advance on Bill With Tax Relief and Increase in Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton and Congressional Republicans narrowed their differences today over a tax-cut package that includes relief for small businesses and an increase in the federal minimum wage, but significant hurdles still blocked final agreement.
The tax bill, which would cost roughly $245 billion over 10 years, is also intended to help people pay for retirement and for long-term health care, to offer incentives to revitalize poor urban and rural areas and to impose new tax rules for American exporters to avert a trade war with the European Union. 
 After months of partisan bickering, Mr. Clinton and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert exchanged amiable letters today, promising cooperation in hammering out a year-end tax relief package.
But House and Senate Democrats, as well as the White House, said they had not seen final details of the Republican plan, and after looking at Republican summaries distributed today, they raised objections about provisions that they said would draw a presidential veto.
Nonetheless, Republican leaders said they would try to schedule votes in the House and Senate on Thursday for the bill, and they all but dared Mr. Clinton to veto legislation that contains provisions he wants, like the antipoverty program and higher minimum wage.
"We've gone as far as we can go, and we've made a lot of adjustment, taken consideration of the things that they had concerns about or wanted," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader.
"But at some point," Mr. Lott continued, "we have to get the votes in the House and in the Senate, and the president has to do what he feels like he has to do."
Mr. Lott said it would be "unfathomable" for Mr. Clinton to veto the tax package.
But Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, and Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's economic policy director, said the president would do just that unless Republicans agreed to several changes, including more money for school construction and less money back to Medicare for health maintenance organizations.
"We're still too far apart for the president to sign this bill," Mr. Sperling said, "but we're hopeful that negotiations lead to a bill that's mutually agreeable."
The dueling tax proposals came as Congress approved a 24-hour extension of spending at current levels to keep the government running through Thursday. It is the only type of extension that Mr. Clinton says he will now approve -- 25 days into the new fiscal year -- in an effort to force lawmakers to wrap up the budget process.
The House approved a bill today to finance primarily the nation's foreign aid programs, legislation that also contained authority to raise the budget ceilings for discretionary spending to $637 billion from $600 billion for the current fiscal year.
Aside from the tax bill, lawmakers and administration officials said major differences over education and immigration policies still stalled final action on two major spending measures. Republican negotiators met tonight to decide whether to push their immigration plans over the White House's objections.
"We're stopped," Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said. "We're dead in the water. Nothing's happened in two days."
Frustration was evident on the Senate floor.
"It's time we realized that at the end of this week we will be one week away from the election," said Senator Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican who heads the Appropriations Committee. "I do not believe Congress should be in session one week before the election."
The tax bill contains several popular provisions.
Workers would be able to set aside $5,000 in individual retirement accounts, up from $2,000 now. In 401(k) plans, which permit workers to set aside savings from their pay and allow employers to take tax deductions for adding to those amounts, the annual limit on tax-deferred employee contributions would rise to $15,000 from $10,500. An exception would be made for those people over 50, who would be allowed to save an extra $5,000 a year.
The minimum wage would increase by $1, to $6.15 an hour, over two years. In exchange, Mr. Clinton agreed to $30 billion in tax breaks for small businesses, to offset the increased wages. But at Mr. Clinton's insistence, Republican leaders dropped several proposals, including one to freeze the wages of waiters and waitresses who earn tips, at $2.13 an hour.
Republican leaders want the bill to include a full deduction for people who pay 50 percent or more of their own health insurance premiums and a $10,000 deduction for the costs of adopting a child.
Democrats argue that this approach will not do enough to help uninsured Americans. In his letter to Mr. Hastert, the president said such deductions were "inefficient" and proposed making them tax credits instead.
Critics of the Republican plan complained that while pension limits were increased for people with higher incomes, two other Democratic measures, one intended to encourage savings for middle-income workers and another to provide tax incentives for small businesses to provide pensions for their employees, were dropped.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: House and Senate Republicans, above from left, Senators Ted Stevens, Don Nickles and Trent Lott, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Representative Tom DeLay, met yesterday on the budget. Senators Nickle and Lott congratulated each other on nearing the end of the process. As President Clinton gave a statement on the budget, his aides, from left, Jack Lew, John D. Podesta and Gene Sperling, listened. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALASKA REPUBLICAN (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%); SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SMALL BUSINESS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE TAXES & TAXATION (96%); MINIMUM WAGE (93%); TAX RELIEF (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (56%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); TRENT LOTT (89%); JACK LEW (78%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); TED STEVENS (59%); TOM DASCHLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



691 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Stocks Tumble On Sales News From Nortel

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Technology stocks plunged yesterday, pulling the broader stock market with them. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.6 percent, its biggest daily decline since May, while the Dow Jones industrial average ended down just 0.6 percent.
The selloff was spurred by the announcement on Tuesday by Nortel Networks, the Canadian maker of telecommunications equipment, that its the third-quarter sales, although very strong, rose less than analysts had expected. 
 The fact that such a sales shortfall with otherwise strong growth sent investors scrambling to sell stocks is a sign of how uncertain many investors feel about the outlook for the economy. High oil prices, the continued weakness in the euro -- which is undermining the earnings of American multinationals -- and the turmoil in the Middle East are all keeping investors unnerved and with their fingers on the sell button.
Nortel dropped 29 percent, to $45, on the New York Stock Exchange and led the Toronto Stock Exchange, where it is also traded, sharply lower. The flood of sell orders forced a halt in the trading of Nortel because the Toronto computers could not handle them. The Toronto Stock Exchange index of 300 stocks dropped 840.26 points, or 8.1 percent, to 9,511.84.
Other fiber optic stocks also plunged. JDS Uniphase, which is scheduled to announce its quarterly earnings today and is a supplier to Nortel, fell 25.3 percent, to $71. SDL, which JDS Uniphase is acquiring, dropped 25.9 percent, to $234.19. Ciena, which makes optical networking equipment, fell 19.9 percent, to $108.38. These stocks had been holding up rather well, until now, compared with other technology stocks, which have helped push the Nasdaq index down 20.6 percent for the year.
Lucent, which is Nortel's competitor, fell 6.1 percent, to $20.25. But Lucent stock had already dropped nearly 70 percent this year as its earnings eroded. The Lucent board fired Richard A. McGinn, its chief executive, on Monday. Some analysts had pointed to Nortel as an example of how Lucent should have been run.
The fiber optic sell-off spread quickly throughout the technology sector, where many companies have cautioned about the near-term outlook for sales and earnings. Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M. helped lead the Dow lower, while Cisco, Sun Microsystems and Applied Micro Circuits joined JDS Uniphase in pulling the Nasdaq lower. These stocks and Corning, the fiber optic cable maker, worked with Nortel to bring the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 2.4 percent.
At the end of the day, the Nasdaq was down 190.22 points, to 3,229.57, while the S.& P. 500 fell 33.23 points, to 1,364.90. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 66.59 points, to 10,326.48. The Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 are still above the 2000 lows they fell to two weeks ago, and the Dow is still above 10,000, below which it broke last week.
Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities, said that it was clear that there was still a big gulf between the earnings expectations in the market and the actual numbers that companies are reporting. "We've got a 1,300 target for the S.& P. 500 for the year- end, and it is my sense that the Nasdaq could find a bottom in the 2,500 to 2,700 range," he said. "But I have no idea if we are going to get there in the next few weeks or the next few months."
While Nortel sales jumped 42 percent, to $7.31 billion, they were about $300 million below expectations. That shortfall, said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation, is fueling investor worries that the United States and world economies are slowing more than expected. And if that is the case, future earnings and sales growth for fiber optic and other technology companies will be less than expected, making their stocks overpriced.
He said that many investors were concerned that the American economy may have a hard landing, instead of the soft landing they have hoped for. "The fear is that the Federal Reserve will be seduced into to keeping interest rates too high too long," he said, because of concerns about inflationary pressures, in part because of the sharp rise in oil prices.
"The stock market is telling us that there should be a soft-landing but don't count on it," he said.
But he said that investors are also struggling with another disappointment. That is that many of the favored technology companies, like Nortel, are proving unable to produce a steady stream of quarterly increases in the growth rates of both earnings and revenues. The high prices that many of these stocks had reached were a bet, he said, that this fantastic growth would continue.
"Now, we don't believe that any more," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (86%); ALU (NYSE) (86%); ALU (BIT) (86%); X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); JDU (TSX) (55%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (86%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (86%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (86%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (84%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



692 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslavia, Turning a Page, Is Expected to Rejoin United Nations

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: SKOPJE, Macedonia, Oct. 25

 BODY:
Yugoslavia will soon apply to join the United Nations, indicating a clear change in policy under its new president, Vojislav Kostunica, the American ambassador to the United Nations, Richard Holbrooke, said today after meeting with Balkan leaders.
"It is clear that Yugoslavia will join the United Nations in a very short time," Mr. Holbrooke said. "We are very pleased to hear that." 
 Mr. Holbrooke, who was the first prominent member of the Clinton cabinet to meet with Mr. Kostunica, said he had long argued over the issue of Yugoslavia's membership in the United Nations with the former president, Slobodan Milosevic, who insisted that his country was the sole successor to the old Yugoslavia, even after four of its republics obtained independence, and he refused to apply to join the United Nations.
Because of that, the old Communist flag of Tito's Yugoslavia still flies outside the headquarters of the United Nations, which has left issues of the property and liabilities of the former Yugoslavian republics frozen.
Those countries also urged Mr. Kostunica in a joint communique today to respect the equality of the states that emerged from the nation's breakup.
The issue was just one of many that Mr. Kostunica grappled with today, just weeks into his new job as president, and still without a federal government or even a foreign minister.
After his meeting with Mr. Holbrooke he also said that he would cooperate with the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague, but that it was not high on his agenda. "There is an interest for truth of events, but it is not a priority," he said.
Mr. Kostunica also said he was working on releasing some 800 Kosovo Albanians being held in Serb prisons, and suggested that a law granting them amnesty was a possibility.
Mr. Kostunica's discussions with Mr. Holbrooke, a longtime negotiator in the Balkans, centered on the Dayton accords that ended the war in Bosnia, as well as on Kosovo and the United Nations resolution under which that province is now governed. The issues of Albanian prisoners in Serbia and the missing Serbs and Albanians were also discussed.
Mr. Holbrooke played down any differences, saying that the changes in the way Yugoslavia is run following the departure of Mr. Milosevic would be enormous. In particular, he said, there would be an end to the subversion by Milosevic allies and Interior Ministry police.
Working with Mr. Kostunica on Bosnia would be easier, one senior American official predicted, but serious differences on Kosovo remained.
"He is a nationalist and he is proud to be one," the official said of Mr. Kostunica. "To a Serb nationalist, Kosovo is part of the Serbian state. But he repeatedly said he was a pragmatist, that Dayton was a part of international law, and that he recognizes that the economic future for Yugoslavia lies in these things. It is encouraging." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AMNESTIES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); AMNESTY (69%); WAR CRIMES (64%); 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



693 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE GREEN PARTY;
Under Fire From Democrats, Nader Assails Gore's Record

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25

 BODY:
In the face of growing efforts by the Democratic Party and its allies to deflate his support, Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate for president, criticized Vice President Al Gore today more sharply than ever before, accusing him of repeatedly breaking promises to clean up the environment, help the poor and reform the federal government.
"Al Gore is suffering from election-year delusion if he thinks his record on the environment is anything to be proud of," Mr. Nader said at a packed news conference at the National Press Club. "He should be held accountable by voters for eight years of principles betrayed and promises broken." 
 Mr. Nader's remarks came as Mr. Gore's supporters in the liberal wing of the Democratic Party have mounted an aggressive campaign using rallies, television commercials and phone banks to dissuade people in several closely contested states from voting for Mr. Nader.
Today, for example, officials with the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League said the group would begin running television commercials in Portland, Ore., Minneapolis and Madison, Wis., late this week urging people who support abortion rights not to vote for Mr. Nader, on the premise that the election of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas would lead to a Supreme Court that would overturn those rights.
Mr. Nader said today that prominent Democrats and labor leaders, including Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, have urged him to quit the race. But he scoffed at the effort, saying it was merely helping him communicate his anti-corporate, pro-third-party message to disenchanted, disengaged voters.
"It's actually giving us greater publicity," he said. "Let these Democrats be more vociferous."
In his wry way, Mr. Nader seemed almost gleeful about the sudden burst of media attention his campaign had received. As he entered the news conference today, he glanced at the forest of microphones clipped to his lectern and joked, "There used to be a podium here." (There were more than 30 reporters and a dozen camera crews at the event, far more than usual for him.)
Mr. Nader also batted aside suggestions from some Democrats that he confine his campaigning to states where the race was not close, so he would not hurt Mr. Gore. Rather, he said, he planned to stump through several swing states over the next two weeks and hold major rallies in two of them: Wisconsin and Iowa.
Democratic Party officials and their allies in the labor, women's and environmental movements are concerned that Mr. Nader is drawing away just enough liberal voters in several states, including Minnesota, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin, to threaten Mr. Gore's chances of winning the election.
For that reason, a number of prominent labor unions and interest groups, including Naral, the League of Conservation Voters, the Sierra Club and the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay and lesbian organization, have recently begun major campaigns to convince liberal voters that a vote for Mr. Nader is effectively a vote for Mr. Bush.
Naral's new commercial, for instance, warns that Mr. Bush's goal is "ending legal abortion" and concludes, "Before voting Nader, consider the risk."
Kate Michelman, Naral's president, said the group is considering running the spot in Maine, Michigan and Washington as well. And she said the organization had begun calling voters in swing states who support abortion rights to urge them to vote Democratic, not Green.
Most of those organizations have said liberals should vote for Mr. Gore because Bush appointments to the Supreme Court could pose a threat to causes like abortion rights. But today, Mr. Nader shrugged off that argument, asserting that some Democratic nominees to the court have compiled conservative voting records.
"I don't give the Democrats much credibility here," he said. He added that several respected justices, including Earl Warren, Harry A. Blackmun and David H. Souter, were nominated by Republican presidents.
Mr. Nader opened his news conference by attacking the Clinton administration as having failed to improve the condition of the poor. He argued that most low-income workers make less today in inflation-adjusted dollars than they did in the 1970's. And he called for raising the federal minimum wage to $8.50 an hour, from $5.15, repealing laws that restrict labor organizing and devoting much of the federal surplus to a "Marshall Plan" to rebuild cities.
"The cruel truth is that few of the benefits of a booming stock market and good economic times at the top have trickled down to millions of American families," he said.
But Mr. Nader quickly moved to a wide-ranging attack on Mr. Gore's environmental record, accusing the vice president of reneging on a host of pledges over the past eight years. Among them: failing to close a hazardous waste incinerator in Ohio, not pushing for higher fuel-efficiency standards in automobiles and allowing federal prosecution of environmental crimes to decline.
Kym Spell, a spokeswoman for the Gore campaign, said: "Voters who are informed about the issues know that big things are at stake in this election, like a woman's right to choose. The voters who care about these issues know that the differences between Al Gore and George Bush are like night and day."
During an extensive question-and-answer period, Mr. Nader said his campaign would actually help liberals fight for their causes by forcing the party's dominant centrist wing to pay more attention to them.
"Already the progressive wing of the Democratic Party suddenly is getting its calls returned by the right-wing Democratic Party operatives who are running that party into the ground as they morph it into a Republican Party impostor," he said.
He dismissed assertions that he might derail Mr. Gore's candidacy, paraphrasing David Letterman.
"Only Al Gore can beat Al Gore," Mr. Nader said. "And he's been doing a pretty good job of that. Up against one of the most bumbling, corporate-indentured, horrible- record Republican candidates, George W. Bush, and he's still in a neck-and-neck race."
 
In His Own Words
RALPH NADER
 
Remarks yesterday at the National Press Club, Washington:
 
"In the addresses and debates by George W. Bush and Al Gore, there are lots of references to the middle class -- the shrinking middle class, but they don't mention that it's shrinking. There is very little reference to the working poor in this country. Forty-seven million full-time American workers in this country are making less than $10 an hour, many of them at the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, and the rest not much more.
The lack of affordable housing, the number of children who go to bed hungry every night and the more than 32 million Americans who live in poverty put the lie to the Gore-Lieberman claim of broad-based prosperity under the current administration's regime. Much like their Republican counterparts, Gore and Lieberman have great faith in the discredited concept of trickle-down economics.
But the cruel truth is that few of the benefits of a booming stock market and good economic times at the top have trickled down to millions of American families. Despite a decade of economic growth, the majority of the workers are making less today in inflation-adjusted dollars and working longer -- about 163 hours longer on the average -- than they did in the 1970's. Working longer, making less. "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate, criticized the vice president at a news conference yesterday at the National Press Club in Washington. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (70%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY NATIONAL PRESS (57%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (83%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); NARAL PRO-CHOICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE); WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (70%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US GREEN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ABORTION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; NADER, RALPH; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) RALPH NADER (93%); AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN CONYERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



694 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Battling for Tennessee, Gore Attacks Bush on Education

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Oct. 25

 BODY:
Forced to campaign in his home state today, Vice President Al Gore framed his differences with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas on education by emphasizing his commitment to the public schools while criticizing Mr. Bush's proposals as "half-measures" and his Texas record as "hollow."
After rallying their headquarters staff and attending a series of fund-raisers that brought in $4.3 million in Nashville on Tuesday night, Mr. Gore and his running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, campaigned in two distinct media markets in central and western Tennessee today before the vice president flew to Kansas City for an evening rally. 
 It is disconcerting for the Gore campaign that the vice president cannot take Tennessee and its 11 electoral votes for granted at this point, and that the Democratic National Committee has had to invest money in advertising there. But Mr. Gore and his aides have argued that the vice president's roots in Carthage, Tenn., and his 24-year political career in the state cannot be expected to overcome its recent political domination by Republicans.
With Mr. Gore as his running mate, President Clinton won the state by only two percentage points in 1996 and by five percentage points in 1992. Its governor, both of its United States senators, and five of its nine members of Congress are Republicans.
"I think Tennessee always is a competitive state in national races," Mr. Gore said today in an interview with WTVF in Nashville. "This is a classic border swing state."
At a rally in Jackson, his grandmother's West Tennessee hometown, Mr. Gore asked how many relatives he had in the crowd and beamed when dozens of hands were raised.
"You know from your own experience that I want to fight for you," he said. "I have kept the faith with Tennessee. Now, here is what I'm asking from you. I am asking you to get out there in these next 13 days."
After summarizing his philosophy about the role of government on Tuesday, Mr. Gore turned his attention today to education in his address to students at Tennessee State University, a historically black college.
Mr. Gore outlined his proposals for using federal money to hire 100,000 new teachers, to reduce class sizes, to provide universal preschool to 4-year-olds, to provide families with tax deductions of up to $10,000 a year for college tuition, to force states and local school boards to change the administration of persistently failing schools and to increase testing of students and teachers.
But Mr. Gore devoted most of his remarks to arguing that Mr. Bush's support for private school vouchers would undermine public education, that his "budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthiest" demonstrate misplaced priorities and that the integrity of student testing in Texas was questionable.
Mr. Bush, he said, "would give more in tax cuts to the wealthiest 90,000 multimillionaires than he would give in the form of all the new investments he has proposed to make in all 90,000 public schools combined."
As he has throughout the campaign, Mr. Gore rejected the concept of vouchers, which would provide some parents of children in poor-performing schools with grants to send their children to private schools.
"Turning around failing schools isn't easy," he said. "Our public schools aren't perfect and can't always turn on a dime. But we all have a moral obligation as Americans to help them and improve them and defend them, not just walk away from them."
Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said Mr. Gore's comments defined him as "the chief defender of the status quo in the public schools."
Mr. Gore laced his attack with provocative new metaphors. Mr. Bush's voucher plan, he said, would make Washington "a national private school headmaster." Because not all students would receive help from vouchers, the plan amounts to "education roulette," he said. Mr. Bush's opposition to spending federal money to hire thousands of new teachers, Mr. Gore added, "is like trying to write on a blackboard without any chalk."
Mr. Gore also used the speech to make his first remarks about a study released this week by the RAND Corporation, a research organization in Santa Monica, Calif., that raised questions about the effectiveness of student testing in Texas.
The study found that Texas students had demonstrated greater improvement in recent years on the state's Texas Assessment of Academic Skills exam than on the leading national assessment test. The report said these "stark differences" in performance raised "serious questions" about the credibility of the state test as a meaningful gauge of academic progress.
The report speculated that the state test scores might have been artificially inflated by, among other things, a practice known in educational circles as teaching to the test, or drilling that helps students prepare for specific types of questions but does not result in real learning.
Because Mr. Bush has made his educational record in Texas a hallmark of his campaign, the Gore forces have treated the RAND study as an October gift. Mr. Lieberman used it to attack Mr. Bush on Tuesday, and Mr. Gore took his turn today.
"This is the bottom line," Mr. Gore said. "We cannot afford to teach kids how to take a state test while leaving them with serious learning deficits. We cannot afford that kind of short-sighted shortcut in education policy any more than we can afford it in economic policy where we cannot afford to cook the books and bust our budget, leaving America with endless financial deficits."
Mr. Gore said practices like teaching to the test "might elevate the reputations of school administrators and politicians but actually do nothing to really raise standards."
 
In His Own Words
AL GORE
 
Remarks yesterday at Tennessee State University in Nashville:
"To me, education is all about raising standards and expanding choices. Raising standards to help our children learn more and ultimately earn more in this new economy. Providing choices so that parents can help their children do better and go further with their own hard work and initiative.
 We should let all of our families have the choice of high-quality preschool for their kids, by making preschool available and by making child care more accessible and refocusing it on learning and by making high-quality preschool available on a voluntary basis to every 4-year-old in America.
We should let all families have the choice of an excellent public school for their children with more public charter schools run by teachers and parents, free to adopt a cutting-edge curriculum and approach. And we should let every family have the chance and the choice of sending a son or daughter to college by making up to $10,000 a year of college tuition tax deductible.
Now, my opponent, Governor Bush, has a different approach because he has different priorities. He would give more in tax cuts to the wealthiest 90,000 multimillionaires than he would give in the form of all the new investments he has proposed to make in all 90,000 public schools combined. . . .
"There are only two real proposals of any substance in his entire education plan: private school vouchers and what he calls accountability. His vouchers, I believe, would actually harm education. And his claims to accountability rest on half-measures and a hollow record. In fact, the governor's private school vouchers would give no choice and no chance to the millions of children he would leave behind in failing schools.
I believe we have to change and improve our public schools, not walk away from them. I believe that it is wrong to drain away public money from public schools that educate 90 percent of American children.
Under the Bush plan, states would be forced to offer vouchers and finance them out of their budgets -- a brand new federal mandate -- whether states and local school districts like vouchers or not. . . . Governor Bush says he doesn't want a national superintendent of schools, but his mandatory voucher plan would make Washington, D.C., a national private school headmaster."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore was congratulated by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman yesterday after Mr. Gore's speech at Tennessee State University. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); JACKSON, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); TENNESSEE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (99%); TENNESSEE, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%); JACKSON, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (84%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (65%); TAX RELIEF (64%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); RICK PERRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



695 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-20
 
Ivory Coast Uprising Ousts Ruler After Disputed Vote
Thousands of people poured into the streets of Abidjan in a revolt against the military ruler, Gen. Robert Guei, who had declared himself the winner of a disputed presidential election. The whereabouts of Mr. Guei, who seized power in a coup last Christmas Eve, was unclear. The general's main election opponent, Laurent Gbagbo, declared himself president and the army chief said the military backed him. But at least one political party called for a new election. A1 

A Respite in the Mideast
Relative calm prevailed on the streets of the West Bank and Gaza Strip for the third day. A10
 
President Clinton, who is trying to get Yasir Arafat and Ehud Barak to Washington next week to try to restart the peace process, praised the Israeli prime minister but verged on blaming the Palestinian leader for not reining in violence. A10
 
Yemen Bombing Inquiry
President Ali Abdullah Saleh said "preliminary investigations" indicated that at least one of the two men who carried out the suicide bombing attack on the Cole was Egyptian. A20
 
A Pentagon intelligence analyst resigned one day after the bombing of the Cole, complaining that his warning about an imminent threat in the region was ignored, officials said. A20
 
Gore's Russia Deal Called Legal
A 1995 deal signed by Vice President Al Gore and Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the former Russian prime minister, allowing Russia to sell weapons to Iran without the United States imposing economic sanctions, was legal and did not threaten security, State Department officials told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. A7
 
Yugoslavia Heads Back to U.N.
The American ambassador to the United Nations, Richard Holbrooke, said after a meeting of Balkan leaders that Yugoslavia would soon apply to rejoin the United Nations. A3
 
Peru Spy Chief Sought
President Alberto K. Fujimori ordered the military to arrest his former intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, whose return from a monthlong exile threw the country into turmoil. Opposition leaders hailed the arrest order. A3 
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A22-33
 
California Is No Longer A Sure Thing for Gore
Hard campaigning by Gov. George W. Bush and the Republican Party has tightened the presidential race in California, which Vice President Al Gore -- and most political analysts -- at one time had solidly in the Democrats' column. And the Green Party candidate, Ralph Nader, also figures in the erosion of Mr. Gore's once double-digit lead over Mr. Bush. A1
 
Mr. Nader accused Mr. Gore of repeatedly breaking promises to clean up the environment, help the poor and reform the government. A32
 
Mr. Gore, campaigning in his home state, Tennessee, framed his differences with Mr. Bush on education by emphasizing his commitment to public schools and describing Mr. Bush's proposals as "half-measures" and his Texas record as "hollow." A30
 
Mr. Gore is showing surprising strength in Florida among elderly and independent voters, a New York Times/CBS News poll found. A1
 
Bush Makes Case to Floridians
Gov. George W. Bush made an aggressive appeal to elderly voters in Florida, pitching his Social Security and Medicare plans and accusing Vice President Al Gore of employing scare tactics. A31
 
Maneuvering on Tax Changes
President Clinton and Congressional Republicans narrowed differences on a tax-cut package that includes relief for small businesses and a rise in the minimum wage, but hurdles to a final deal remained. A28
 
Germ Terror Defense Faulted
The Henry L. Stimson Center, a nonprofit public policy research group, said that the threat of terrorism involving chemical and germ weapons had been exaggerated and that much of the government's response had been wasteful and ill-conceived. A24
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Poem's Authorship Challenged
A Vassar English professor says Clement Clarke Moore probably did not write the enduring 19th century Christmas poem "Account of a Visit from St. Nicholas," better known as "The Night Before Christmas." Rather, he said, it appears to have been the work of Henry Livingston Jr. of Poughkeepsie, N.Y. E1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-11
 
Mrs. Clinton to Return Money From Muslim Event
Hillary Rodham Clinton said she would return $50,000 in political contributions received at a fund-raiser sponsored by a Muslim organization based in California. The group's president has praised a United Nations resolution that he says allowed for the use of armed force by Palestinians against Israel; other group members have been accused of making anti-Semitic remarks. A1
 
Fugitive Seized in Austria
Sholam Weiss, 46, a Brooklyn-born businessman sentenced in absentia to 845 years in an insurance fraud scheme, was arrested in Austria. B1
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Saving Cardiac Arrest Victims
Two studies, one conducted at casinos and the other on airliners, found that many people who suffer cardiac arrest can be saved if ordinary people are trained to use defibrillators to shock them back to life. A29
 
Study Faults Fossil Fuels
Greenhouse gases mainly from fossil fuels are altering the atmosphere in ways that affect climate, an international scientific panel said, and it is likely that they have "contributed substantially to the observed warming over the last 50 years." A22
 
Altered Corn Found in Japan
A Japanese consumer group said StarLink bioengineered corn, which is not approved for humans, had made its way from the United States into cornmeal made in Japan. C1
 
OBITUARIES A29
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
Yanks Lead Series, 3-1
The Yankees beat the Mets at Shea Stadium, 3-2, to move to within one game of their third straight World Series championship. Game 5 is at Shea tonight. D1
 
N.B.A. Levies Huge Penalty
The Minnesota Timberwolves were fined $3.5 million and stripped of first-round draft picks for five years for violating salary-cap rules. D7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
AT&T Breakup Plan
AT&T said it would break itself into four parts, with four publicly traded stocks. The move is a pullback from an expensive three-year effort to become the first one-stop shop selling long-distance, wireless, cable television and Internet services across the nation as a single package with a single bill. A1
 
Bond Markets Send Signal
High-yield bonds issued by corporations have plunged in price and rocketed in yield, with the Merrill Lynch high-yield corporate bond index carrying a yield of 13.24 percent. Some see the bond markets as signaling that America should be more worried about a slowdown than prospects for higher inflation. C1
 
Selloff in Technology Stocks
The Nasdaq fell 190.22 points, or 5.6 percent, to 3,229.57; the S.& P. 500 dropped 66.59 points, or 2.4 percent, to 10,326.48; and the Dow fell 66.59, less than 1 percent, to 10,326.48. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-22
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Mr. Nader's electoral mischief; a better approach to drug offenders; Tina Rosenberg on fighting poverty.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
TV Listings E10
Crossword E9
Weather B11
Public Lives B2 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); YEMEN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); YEMEN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ABIDJAN, COTE D'LVOIRE (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TERRORISM (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); ESPIONAGE (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); ARREST WARRANTS (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (54%); EHUD BARAK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



696 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: In Last Days, Lazio Forced To Focus On Upstate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, N.Y., Oct. 25

 BODY:
When Rick A. Lazio arrived here for a Monroe County Republican reception this evening, he could be forgiven for feeling that he had been in these parts before. He had. Many times.
In fact, tonight's was the 22nd campaign appearance Mr. Lazio had made in upstate New York over six straight days: from Amherst to Syracuse, from Catskill to West Ghent (it's in Columbia County), and from Utica to Hornell. And he will be back next week. 
 With two weeks to go until Election Day, Mr. Lazio is devoting a great deal of attention to a part of New York that should be easy country for a Republican. And that is stirring concern among some of his supporters as the geographic forces that have traditionally shaped New York elections appear to be shifting this year -- and not necessarily to Mr. Lazio's advantage.
That this is happening is a result of Hillary Rodham Clinton's unusually aggressive effort over the last 15 months in a part of New York that Democrats have tended to neglect. It also reflects what Mr. Lazio's aides say were some miscalculations in his initial approach to upstate, in particular the assumption that Mrs. Clinton would not be received well north of Westchester County.
As a result, while Mr. Lazio is being pressed to spend the final days of this campaign in a region that should be solidly in his corner, Mrs. Clinton is comfortable enough about her Democratic support to spend relatively more time in competitive regions of the state, starting with the New York City suburbs. She is even finding time to venture onto what has been the Republican base: he was in Syracuse on Tuesday and so was Mrs. Clinton, delivering a speech on the economy. It was her third trip upstate in a week; she is planning a three-day upstate bus trip starting Saturday.
Mr. Lazio's advisers said the decision to devote so much time upstate was a sign of strength, not weakness, and reflected their confidence of his support in the suburbs. Mr. Lazio's senior campaign consultant, Mike Murphy, argued that the race would be decided largely upstate, and that the region is not as Republican as it once was.
"The upstate hasn't been Republican base country in 15 years," said Mr. Murphy. "It's swing country -- and it's swinging our way, and we're winning."
"Upstate is coming back strong," Mr. Murphy said. "We've got to watch it, but upstate is coming back."
But some senior New York Republicans sympathetic to Mr. Lazio's campaign, as well as some independent political analysts, said that Mr. Lazio should have nailed down upstate by now. They said that the need to tend to his base had emerged as a campaign-ending distraction that was pulling Mr. Lazio away from places where he might more profitably search for support.
"He's constantly in upstate New York -- constantly -- and that's really killing him," said one Republican strategist, who insisted on anonymity. "He's spending an inordinate time for this late in upstate New York, which prevents him from appealing to suburban voters."
Maurice Carroll, the director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said Mr. Lazio was forced to head upstate now because he didn't do it earlier. "He has to do it," Mr. Carroll said. "She has worked her tail off upstate, and she has cut into the traditional overwhelming Republican preponderance up there."
Further, while Mr. Lazio's aides argued the candidate was keeping a presence in the suburbs through television advertisements, his relative physical absence from the metropolitan area has meant he is not getting the "free media" that comes with television news coverage. Most suburban voters get their news from the New York City television stations, which means that they have not been seeing much of Mr. Lazio.
At the same time, Mrs. Clinton has been a more regular presence on the news, because of her time spent in the metropolitan area and, not incidentally, the frequent visits by President Clinton, including a fund-raiser in Manhattan tonight.
Political analysts expect that in this election, about 45 percent of the vote will come from upstate New York, 31 percent will come from the suburban counties and 24 percent from New York City. Based on those figures, Mr. Lazio's aides said that in order to counteract the advantage Mrs. Clinton would gain in New York City, which is overwhelmingly Democratic, he needed to draw at least 55 percent of the upstate vote.
But pollsters who have been following the race say that Mr. Lazio has yet to assure himself of that margin. Thus, it was no surprise that Mr. Lazio, after flying back to New York to attend the third game of the World Series on Tuesday, hopped back on his campaign jet for the Monroe County G.O.P. Annual Pre-Victory Grazing tonight. An aide said that he would spend "the vast bulk" of his time between now and Election Day in upstate New York.
Part of what is going on reflects the change in electoral politics in New York. As Mr. Murphy noted, upstate is not as reliably Republican as it once was; Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, won 45 percent of the vote upstate, when he defeated Alfonse M. D'Amato for a fourth term in 1998, by 8 percentage points statewide. (Mr. Schumer won 74 percent of the vote in the city, which is higher than anyone expects Mrs. Clinton to do, and 48 percent of the suburban vote.)
Mr. Schumer, in an interview, argued that upstate voters no longer automatically view Democrats as loyal advocates for New York City, and thus foes of upstate, as they once did. And while Mrs. Clinton is not from New York State, as Mr. Lazio has noted with some regularity, she is not from New York City either.
By contrast, Mr. Lazio assumed -- incorrectly, Mr. Schumer argued -- that a Long Island native would not be viewed as another downstate candidate, and thus would be quickly embraced in a way that Rudolph W. Giuliani was not, when he was the Republican candidate for Senate. For a long time, Mr. Lazio's television advertisements included a shot of him walking on a Long Island beach with his family. He dropped the scene at the urging of some Republicans who said that it was hurting him among upstate voters.
Mr. Lazio also let the summer pass without nailing down his position upstate, notwithstanding advice from some New York Republicans that he should, in the words of one, have "camped out" upstate in August. "Upstate has been the battleground all along: Lazio just came to the war late," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie.
At the same time, while Mrs. Clinton was talking about the upstate economy at every opportunity -- she even gave a speech to business leaders in Manhattan asserting that it was in their interest to invest upstate -- Mr. Lazio declared at a debate that the upstate economy had "turned the corner," an assertion that was questioned by some Republicans and newspaper editorial writers.
For their part, Mr. Lazio's advisers argued that Mrs. Clinton would end up doing relatively poorly in New York City, because of what they asserted was a lack of enthusiasm about her among many Democrats. In particular, they are hoping that reservations about her among Jewish voters there will lead many Democrats to either skip the Senate race or vote for Mr. Lazio when they come to vote for president. And Mrs. Clinton's aides are concerned that the absence of Mr. Giuliani on the ballot will result in a lower turnout among black voters, who, they said, would have turned out in greater numbers against the mayor.
"Her numbers are not quite as good as they appear on the surface," said Bill Dal Col, Mr. Lazio's campaign manager. Still, Mr. Lazio's aides acknowledge that the place to watch is upstate. And there, pollsters and political analysts say, voters are very familiar with Mrs. Clinton, while uncertain about Mr. Lazio, who remains something of an unknown quanity -- even to those who, by now, should be pledging their allegiance to him.
"She has really worked hard to convince people that they can trust her," said Donna Colangelo, a 38-year-old cashier at a convenience store near Utica, who described herself as a lifelong Republican, a note of admiration in her voice. "I don't think he's been as aggressive as she is. But he still has time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick A. Lazio greeted well-wishers, and got his cheek pinched, during a dinner at the Italian American Community Center in Rochester last week. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



697 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 13; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Sensor Fish Brave the Bumps to Tame Dams for Young Salmon

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN 

 BODY:
FOR a young salmon, spawned on the upper reaches of the Columbia or Snake Rivers in the Pacific Northwest and determined to make it to the Pacific Ocean, a trip through one of the rivers many hydroelectric dams is like a ride on a bad roller coaster with a giant blender thrown in for good measure. Severe pressure changes as the fish travels through the dam can leave it stunned and disoriented, easy prey for other fish and birds once it gets through. And the spinning turbine blades that power the electric generators can kill the fish.
Over the years, the Army Corps of Engineers and state and federal wildlife agencies have tried to help juvenile fish avoid this wild ride altogether. Screens have been built near turbine intakes to divert fish into bypass channels. Barges and tanker trucks have been used to give young salmon a lift past the dams. 
 Despite these efforts, millions of unlucky fish inevitably end up going through the turbines. So some scientists have focused their attention on making the ride a less lethal one. And theyve developed a unique tool -- what might be called bionic salmon.
These fake fish, developed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, which is managed by the Department of Energy, contain tiny sensors and other electronics to measure stress and strain as they flow through the dam (they don't swim). The goal, said Dr. Thomas J. Carlson, who manages the project for the laboratory, is to understand the conditions the fish encounter. "If you know those, you can go back and design turbines for safer fish passage," he said.
The idea of creating the fish came up about a decade ago, Dr. Carlson said, "but it's only in the last three or five years that the technology has been available to build something like this."
The fish, which are about six inches long and, in the earliest versions, coated in rubber, include accelerometers that can measure the effect of the turbulence, the pressure changes and the shearing forces that occur as the fish are bounced and buffeted through the turbine and through an outflow tunnel, called a draft tube.
The sensor data are stored in memory chips and downloaded later when the fish are recovered. To aid retrieval, the fish have tiny air bags, which inflate to carry them to the surface, and tiny transmitters that help researchers find them.
So far the sensor fish have been used at Bonneville Dam, the last one that fish encounter on their way to the sea, to test whether a new turbine design there is effective in protecting fish. Since many fish that are injured in turbines are caught in the gaps between the blades and the turbine walls, the new design has narrower gaps to make it safer for the fish.
The number of fish killed or injured by the blades of any of the turbines along the river is actually quite small, Dr. Carlson said, between 2 percent and 4 percent. Of greater concern is what happens in the turbulent water of the draft tube. Using the sensor fish, the researchers have found that where a fish ends up in the tube is often determined by where it enters the turbine, and that a fish is better off in some parts of the tube than in others. "Were just starting now to look at a redesign of the draft tube," Dr. Carlson said.
The sensor fish are also being used to measure the turbulence in the bypass channels that are intended to keep the fish out of the turbines. These channels, called high-volume outfalls, are essentially small rivers, Dr. Carlson said, and are often designed so the water cascades violently back into the river. The battering and froth that produces can hurt the fish.
Outfall designs will have to change to protect more fish, Dr. Carlson said. "Were looking at outfalls that will allow water to come out and skim along the surface and not plunge deep."
The sensor fish studies are just a small part of what has been a long and expensive effort to protect salmon and steelhead on the Columbia and Snake, both the juveniles moving downstream to the sea and adults traveling upstream to spawn. For all the billions of dollars spent, the effort has not been particularly successful: some species on the rivers are extinct, and others are endangered.
For some environmentalists and others, the only solution is to demolish four of the Snake River dams. The Clinton administration has considered this proposal, but recently postponed any decision for at least five years. Critics of that plan say that tearing down the dams will not save the fish and will harm the region's economy.
It's not clear to Dr. Carlson that the dams are responsible for most of the problem. "It could be the way that the bypass systems are being operated," he said. Transporting young fish to the ocean on barges, for example, may get them to the ocean too soon and interfere with their development.
What is clear to Dr. Carlson is the need to continue research with tools like the sensor fish so the system can be improved. "The focus is increasingly on finetuning elements of this fish-management capability," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Frank OConnell/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Fishing for Data in Turbulent Waters
Researchers and engineers at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory have developed sensor fish to help them measure the forces that young salmon encounter when they travel through hydroelectric dams on the Columbia and Snake Rivers.
 
A trip through the turbines
Fish usually travel through an inlet pipe down through the spinning hydroelectric turbine, then into the draft tube and eventually back into the river. The sensor fish are inserted through a tube directly into the turbine area.
 
CIRCUIT BOARDS
The fish contain microprocessors and circuitry on their circuit boards to convert the analog signals from their sensors into digital data. They also have memory chips for data storage, output cables for downloading data to a computer and tiny transmitters, which help researchers find the fish more easily
once they are through the dam.
 
AIR BAGS
A gas-creating mixture of chemicals slowly inflates the bags as each fish travels through the dam so that when it reaches the downstream side of the dam, it bobs to the surface for retrieval. A few fish were lost after the bags were torn off so metal rings are now used to attach them.
 
ACCELEROMETERS
Three accelerometers, each oriented along a different axis, measure the forces acting on each fish as it moves through the water to help determine how it is buffeted by turbulence.
 
STRAIN GAUGE
A gauge is used to measure how much the fish bends in the middle, between the circuit boards.
 
BATTERY PACK
The fish's electronics run on standard AAA batteries.
 
EXTERIOR
Early versions of the fish had a rubber coating, but later models have a harder shell made of polycarbonate. Some fish have been painted orange to make them easier to spot.
 
Chart also shows the TURBINE, DRAFT TUBE, WATER INLET PIPE, GENERATOR, POWER INDICATOR, PROCESSOR, MEMORY MODULE, OUTPUT CABLES, and the INLET PIPE FOR PRESSURE GAUGE.
 
(Source: Pacific Northwest National Laboratory)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY (PASO, WASH) PACIFIC NORTHWEST BAKING CO (91%); PACIFIC NORTHWEST RENTAL & LEASING INC (91%); PACIFIC NORTHWEST DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%); PACIFIC NORTHWEST PARTNERS LTD (91%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT; PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY (PASO, WASH) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); WEST USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; ROBOTS; DAMS AND DIKES ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FISHES (90%); RIVERS (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (87%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ARMIES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, HENRY THOMAS J CARLSON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



698 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Are Bush and Gore flip-flopping over how to manage the economy?

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a new collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." Mr. Madrick, Virginia Postrel, Alan B. Krueger and Hal R. Varian rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
JUST after the political conventions this summer, it looked as if America had a clear-cut choice about how the economy should be managed. About $2.7 trillion of the projected $4.6 trillion in surpluses over the next 10 years are estimated to be generated by Social Security and Medicare. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas favored giving most of the rest -- some $1.3 trillion -- back to Americans in the form of a tax cut.
Vice President Al Gore wanted to spend roughly $350 billion of it on a Medicare-based prescription drug plan for the elderly, but much of the rest, he said, should be devoted to a litany of programs for America's "working families." Mr. Gore bolted out of the Democratic convention with a ratings lead. 
 Since then, however, the vice president has made a rhetorical course correction. He started emphasizing the fiscal discipline of his agenda and referred less to what he would do for working families. Today, it would be hard to find a man or woman on the street aware of Mr. Gore's most interesting social proposals, including his provocative program to provide up to $200 billion in a program to help middle-income people accumulate long-term savings.
"He backed away from a full-throated emphasis on working families," says Ruy Texeira, co-author with Joel Rogers of "America's Forgotten Majority" (Basic Books, 2000). "And in the process, he muddied his vision of how to make the new economy work for these families."
Now, of course, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore are about dead even in many polls.
In truth, once we had a closer look at Mr. Gore's budget proposal, it was clear that he had locked himself into a stingier program than his convention rhetoric suggested. He earmarked the Social Security and Medicare surpluses -- $2.7 trillion -- to pay down most of America's federal debt. He set aside another $300 billion as a cushion because the surpluses were no sure thing. Chalk up about $3 trillion, therefore, or 65 percent of the projected surplus, to demonstrate fiscal probity.
Working with a smaller pie, Mr. Gore also gave precedence to the elderly over working families. The Social Security and Medicare surpluses would be placed in a "lock box" so they could not be spent. The prescription drug proposal was his largest social program by far, and some complained that even it was too restrictive. That left $1 trillion or so for other social programs, or $100 billion a year, including his own tax cut. He only proposed another $115 billion for education over 10 years, for example.
Despite that, Mr. Gore came up with several enticing ideas. He proposed to spend $200 billion to match the savings of middle- and lower-income Americans, which he called Retirement Savings Plus. A couple earning $25,000 a year, for example, could put away $500 and receive another $1,500 from the government. The federal match would decline as incomes rose.
Mr. Gore proposed universal schooling for preschoolers and tuition tax credits -- solid new economy ideas. He wanted a higher minimum wage and a more generous earned-income tax credit. His tax cuts in general were aimed more at middle- and lower-income workers than Mr. Bush's.
But once Mr. Bush started accusing Mr. Gore of being a big spender and stressing a few social programs of his own, the tone of the campaign changed. One of the first hints was that the Gore campaign started using the term "middle-class families" instead of "working families."
In the 1980's and early 1990's, politicians made hay over the middle-class fear that social programs, especially for the poor, were eating into their standard of living. Apparently, Mr. Gore did not want to rekindle those fears, even though most American families, not just the poor, were still strained by stagnating incomes and more hours of work.
As part of the new plan, he also spent a lot of time criticizing Mr. Bush's budget plans. And Mr. Bush certainly appeared vulnerable. His stimulative tax cuts were proposed at the height of the business cycle, when they might have been most inflationary. The governor also refused to be specific about how he would pay for his Social Security privatization plan -- estimated to cost $1 trillion. Mr. Gore must have thought that he would strike gold, but so far it is lead.
How good are Mr. Gore's own fiscally conservative economics? A strong case can be made that paying down some of America's debt -- that is to say, not spending all of the projected surplus -- makes economic sense. It may raise scarce savings when the nation is overly dependent on borrowing from overseas to meet its capital needs.
But the tax increases under former President George Bush and President Clinton, along with federal spending cuts of the early 1990's, were also intended to raise national savings. What happened instead was that, while the government reduced its deficit, individual Americans saved less and borrowed more. Over all, national saving has not risen appreciably to this day.
The true benefit of the tax increases and spending cuts, it turned out, was that they calmed investors, who bought bonds and sent interest rates lower. Today, the nation simply does not have to pay off the entire national debt, as Mr. Gore wants to do, to retain investors' confidence.
Do working families really want help from government? Daniel Cohen has little doubt. As executive director of New York's small Working Families Party, Mr. Cohen brings blue-collar white workers together with inner-city black and Hispanic workers to find common economic ground.
Mr. Cohen says that issues like capital punishment and police brutality often divide his members, but on issues like investment in education, healthcare and a living wage, they rally together. The two-year-old party's organizational strength has been influential in local elections across the state.
The new economy has new needs, including better education, more accessible child care, flexible work hours and higher wages for lower-income workers. If Mr. Gore loses the election, it will be wrong to say he overemphasized social spending. To the contrary, he doggedly tried to prove he was a fiscal conservative -- and confused his message in the process.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day yesterday, about Vice President Al Gore's proposals for the projected budget surplus, misstated the surname of the executive director of the Working Families Party. He is Daniel Cantor, not Cohen.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Democratic presidential candidate, Al Gore, spoke at a rally in Everett, Wash., yesterday. His daughter Kristin, right, was among those looking on. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); AGING (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); WRITERS (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



699 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Visit Revises Image of North Korean

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea, Oct. 25

 BODY:
When Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright landed here this week, the Clinton administration had closely watched what it viewed as the erratic and threatening behavior of the leader, Kim Jong Il, for more than six years.
A series of crises that concerned the North Korean nuclear program and its ability to build and launch long-range missiles had driven Washington to believe that the reclusive Mr. Kim was determined to destabilize the North Asian region and, possibly, attack the United States. 
 After negotiating with Mr. Kim over two days, Dr. Albright and her team of North Korea specialists who left the country this morning said they had come away with a different impression. They found, they said, a leader who could be reasoned with and keeps up on events through the Internet and CNN and who has traveled to China, India and Russia.
The assessment of Mr. Kim toward the end of this visit is vastly more positive than it was several months ago, when there was considerable disbelief in Washington, and even some quiet scoffing, at similar descriptions given by President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea after his visit to North Korea in June.
In one of the many conversations with the secretary that ranged over subjects like his annual viewing of the Oscars -- presumably by videotape -- Mr. Kim said he was examining alternatives to his Communist economy. Specifically, he said he liked the Swedish model.
As the Americans try to fathom what has prompted what is apparently Mr. Kim's new readiness to abandon his missile program on conditions that would be acceptable to the United States, the central theme of the talks here, they have come up with two basic reasons: the economic survival of a country that is teetering on the brink of collapse and the survival of his own dictatorship.
"I think he's beginning to think about how to sustain his economy over time," a senior administration official said. "He has some understanding that missile exports, although they obviously bring in hard currency, also produce problems for him."
Most significantly, the official added, Mr. Kim apparently understood that maintaining a hard-line posture on his missile program and exports prevented any possibility of a relationship with the United States.
The Americans said they believed that Mr. Kim, who inherited the leadership from his father, Kim Il Sung, who died six years ago, needs to shore up his vulnerabilities. He runs a country where the 1.1 million-member military wields a disproportionate degree of authority. But as the indulged child of a powerful man, he never worked his way up through the ranks.
Whether Mr. Kim, whom officials said they found smart but far from being a creative thinker, will actually put into effect any economic changes remains a question. Improving the economy would mean opening the country to foreign investors, much as China has done. But that is a move that could produce profound shocks in one of the most isolated countries in the world.
Asked whether Mr. Kim understood the implications of opening his society to the Internet and a global economy, the administration official replied, "I think that is, in part, why this will be a slow process."
In preparing for Dr. Albright's visit here, possibly the prelude to a trip by President Clinton before he leaves office, Washington has had to build on the little that it knows about Mr. Kim. At home, his life story is murky and subject to wild rumors.
Despite hagiography that insists that he was born in a log cabin on a legendary mountaintop, American officials said they believed that Mr. Kim was born in a military camp in the Far East of the Soviet Union in 1942, when his father was fighting Japanese troops. Mr. Kim's father moved back to Korea at the end of World War II, heading the Korean Communist Party in the Soviet-occupied North and becoming its leader after 1948, when a Communist-led republic was proclaimed, until his death in 1994.
The younger Mr. Kim was educated in Pyongyang, the capital, and graduated from university in political economy, essentially a degree in Marxism-Leninism.
Kim Jong Il then began to rise through the ranks of the Communist Party and was put in charge of agitprop and then the all-important personnel department. In 1980, he was proclaimed the successor to his father, and granted the title of Dear Leader, close but not quite the same as the title of Great Leader that belongs to the senior Mr. Kim.
In his rise to power, rumors abounded about his love affairs. North Korea experts said they believed that he has an official wife, Ko Yong Hui, and that he has had other wives and children with them. There was no sign of a wife at the social occasions with Dr. Albright. But he has told visitors that he has children in their 20's.
Many of the anecdotes about Mr. Kim's personal life came from a South Korean actress and her former husband who were kidnapped in Hong Kong and taken to North Korea on Mr. Kim's orders. After their escape from the North, that couple publicized accounts about Mr. Kim's extravagant spending on movie productions and on his love for luxury, including Mercedes-Benzes.
Those accounts, combined with intelligence reports that implicated Mr. Kim in the bombing of a South Korean airliner and other terrorist acts, encouraged the impression that Mr. Kim was somehow dissolute and, perhaps, a little unstable.
The Americans were apparently relieved to find now that this was not the case. Anyway, they argue, as a senior administration official said today, that the issues of North Korea's building missiles and encouraging nuclear proliferation were too "important to say glibly: 'This guy is kooky. He's out of this world. Who could possibly deal with him?' "
After 12 hours of dealing with him, undoubtedly on his best behavior, the Americans found that there was nothing obviously odd about him. But they also recognized that the enormous cult of personality that surrounds Mr. Kim means that he is treated as an infallible leader, who by definition finds it difficult to make change quickly.
At the core of a change in North Korea's strategic posture is the start of reconciliation with South Korea, a process that began with the visit of President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea to Pyongyang in the summer.
How much investment North Korea welcomes from the South will be one measure of Mr. Kim's intentions. Perhaps more important will be the movement that the two sides make in having their militaries reduce tensions between them.
The Americans said they tried to explain to Mr. Kim some basics about the American political system so that he would understand that the White House, as it considers proposals about how to finalize North Korea's missile contraction, did not act in a vacuum. He was told by Dr. Albright that the administration would consult Congress and its allies and try to build support as it considered any quid pro quo for North Korea to abandon its missiles.
Mr. Kim, who does not speak English nor appear to understand it, asked Dr. Albright few political, cultural or social questions about the United States. But toward the end of their first meeting, he did ask Dr. Albright whether she had just seen coverage of their meetings on CNN. She had not. But he had, presumably with the help of an interpreter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transmission error, an article yesterday about the scene in Pyongyang, North Korea, during Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's visit this week misspelled the name of the country's leader. He is Kim Jong Il, not Kim Yong Il.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kim Jong Il can be reasoned with, an American delegation found. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA ; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); TRENDS (69%); POLITICS (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; KIM JONG IL; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) KIM JONG IL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



700 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Once a Monopoly and Still a Threat

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
The telecommunications dispute between the United States and Mexico that has simmered for most of this year involves pennies. But since those pennies add up to hundreds of millions of dollars a year in interconnection fees, this has become one of the thorniest trade squabbles to test relations between the two nations.
American trade officials have gone so far as to threaten to drag Mexico before the World Trade Organization to force Mexican regulators to level the playing field for competitors, including some with American partners, that are seeking part of the country's $12 billion telecommunications market. 
 There has been a bit of detente recently. Mexican officials agreed early this month to lower interconnection rates, fees charged to long-distance companies by local carriers, to 1.25 cents a minute from 3.36 cents. And last month they put new rules into effect that could force Telefonos de Mexico, the former national phone monopoly widely known as Telmex, to more strongly embrace open competition.
So United States officials have decided to hold off action. A 60-day waiting period for proceeding with the W.T.O. complaint ended on Oct. 17 and the trade officials decided not to go ahead with the complaint -- at least not now.
But tensions remain. "If we don't feel that our concerns are being adequately addressed," said Brendan Daly, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, "we have the right to bring a case before the W.T.O. and we will not hesitate to do so."
Telmex has agreed to honor the new rates, but the company has challenged them in the Mexican courts. The rules enable regulators to treat dominant companies like Telmex differently from smaller companies to foster competition.
Carrying out the new regulations "would result in higher prices for consumers while depriving them of the benefits of Telmex's increased productivity," the company said in a statement. "The only beneficiaries will be the competing companies, which will be able to increase profits because of undeserved advantages that actually harm the national interests."
United States officials think that Telmex still looks and acts too much like a monopoly. They say that in the years that the Mexican long-distance phone market has been open to competition, Telmex first lost, then began regaining market share. It now controls 81 percent of long-distance customers, up from a low around 70 percent. It also, they say, has more than 95 percent of the market for local phone service, which was opened to competition last year.
As the cross-border dispute continues, one of the handful of competing local phone service start-up companies in Mexico, Axtel, has added a twist -- accusing the rival companies with United States partners of doing their best to stifle competition by using some of the tactics for which they are criticizing Telmex.
"We've been caught in the middle of a battle," said Carlos Escalante, director of regulatory affairs for Axtel, which provides local phone service in Monterrey and Mexico City. Axtel phones are wireless and quickly installed because they are not connected to the existing copper-line grid.
The two American-related long-distance companies are Alestra, in which AT&T holds a 49 percent ownership stake, and Avantel which has WorldCom as a 45 percent partner. They entered the Mexican market in 1997, seven years after Telmex was first sold to private owners, and have invested heavily to build networks all over the country.
They say they are struggling to become profitable in part because Telmex has used its position as the dominant local and long-distance carrier in Mexico to hinder competition and persuade government regulators to act in its favor. Specifically, they say that Telmex has occasionally refused to provide access to its network or sometimes provided lines of inferior quality. And until recently, they complained that Telmex charged excessive interconnection fees.
All long-distance companies pay local carriers for the originating and terminating parts of calls they handle. Thus, under the old rates, Telmex could receive 3.36 cents a minute for a long-distance call made on its lines, and 3.36 cents a minute more if the call ended in one of its local-service areas.
Alestra and Avantel had accused Telmex of ignoring international conventions, signed by Mexican officials, that are intended to keep such rates as low as possible to encourage competition. Further, they say Mexican regulators have in large part ignored the issue.
Regulators in the United States and Mexico both say this is a public policy question, not just a matter of corporate interests. Despite the privatization of Telmex, the arrival of competing companies and a sharp increase in Internet use, Mexico remains one of the world's least wired nations, with about 10 lines for each 100 people, compared with 60 per 100 in the United States.
AT&T and WorldCom have aggressively made their cases known to Mexican and American officials, and have dogged the office of the United States trade representative.
The complaint from Axtel against Alestra and Avantel has received less attention.
Axtel, which competes with Telmex on the local level, contends that Alestra and Avantel are not taking into account the impact that lower interconnection fees can have on Telmex's local-service competitors. Axtel officials say they based their business plans on fees as high as 5 cents a minute -- a level needed, they say, to generate enough resources to help them grow and significantly increase the number of phone lines. They also say Alestra and Avantel have so far refused to sign interconnection contracts with their company.
In a statement in March, Axtel officials accused Alestra and Avantel of trying to restrain the opening of Mexico's telecommunications market. "Instead of encouragement, Axtel and other independent telcos now face interconnection obstacles that have been thrown up by the very carriers that have unfurled the banner of competition in Mexico," the statement said.
Jim Talbot, a lawyer at AT&T, Alestra's partner, said he found it hard to understand Axtel's argument. "Mexico made commitments two years ago to open its market and it simply has not done so," he said. Mr. Talbot added that Alestra had agreed to route the calls from Axtel customers through its long-distance network even without a formal contract so service would not be disrupted.
The American companies point out that Axtel has its own foreign partner, Bell Canada International, which also recently entered into a Latin American joint venture with Telmex. (The regional Bell giant SBC Communications owns 8.5 percent of Telmex.)
"We don't have to speculate a lot, then, to see that there is a connection in their relationship," Raul Ortega, an Alestra spokesman, said of Axtel, Bell Canada and Telmex.
But Mr. Escalante of Axtel said it was absurd to think that his company was shilling for Telmex. "In this time of alliances, mergers and acquisitions, everybody has a relationship with everybody else," he said. "But Telmex has no common ground with us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 31, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Thursday tracing major acquisitions and divestitutes by AT&T since its breakup in 1984 omitted two companies. In 1994 AT&T acquired McCaw Cellular, which became the basis for its wireless phone business. In 1998 it bought I.B.M.'s Global Network business, which has become an important part of its business services division.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Start-up Mexican phone companies are moving to challenge the dominance of Telmex, the privatized ex-monopoly. Damian Ramirez installed a satellite dish in Mexico City for Axtel, a local phone carrier. (Victor R. Caivano); A caller at a Mexico City pay phone. Service is broadening but slowly, with 10 telephone lines for each 100 people nationwide. (Notimex)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO (TELMEX); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO (TELMEX); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MONOPOLIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); LITIGATION (63%); STARTUPS (61%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000



701 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 40; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 4737 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:
A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.
 
Museums
 
"GIORGIO ARMANI," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 17). The Guggenheim has served up another plateau of urban history: a retrospective of the Milanese fashion designer Giorgio Armani. What it lacks in depth it makes up for with sparkle, and Robert Wilson's architectural transformation of the museum's rotunda may be the best yet. In an inverted version of a life class, instead of the undraped body, the show offers just the drapes. The mannequins have been pared down to the edges of the costumes, and they cluster in groups in the building's structural bays, spatial modules with the proportions of shop windows. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8 students and the elderly (Herbert Muschamp). 

 "A BRUSH WITH NATURE: THE GERE COLLECTION OF LANDSCAPE OIL SKETCHES," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Nov. 12). Most of the artists in this show -- English, French, Italian, German, Belgian and Scandinavian, from the 17th to the 19th centuries -- are barely known today. In their own age they did something quite offbeat: they left studios to paint outdoors, registering transient moments of light and atmosphere by sketching quickly in oil from nature. Until recently it was assumed that this plein-air approach, used to train hand and eye for more ambitious compositions, began with the Impressionists. Mostly painted in Rome and the surrounding countryside, the works capture such painterly events as the seamed face of a rock, the rush of water through a valley, the play of sunlight on a ruin, the quirky architecture of a building or a wall. Tune your eye to small when you look at this show, and you'll find it a treasure. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; $5 for students (over 10) and the elderly (Grace Glueck).
 
 * "THE CHINESE PAINTER AS POET," China Institute Gallery, 125 East 65th Street, (212) 744-8181 (through Dec. 10.) In China, painting, poetry and calligraphy were the dream team of art: the "three perfections," they were called. Any truly evolved person was adept at each, and discussion of any of them was framed in the same terms: rhythm, touch, tone, spiritual energy. This eloquent exhibition examines the three-way partnership through some four dozen paintings, several of them of the first rank, ranging in date from the Song dynasty (960-1279) through the 20th century. In many cases the artist has inscribed his own poem on the surface of his painting in what amounts to a virtuoso multimedia solo performance. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, until 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $3; $2 for students and the elderly (Holland Cotter).
 
 * "THE EMBODIED IMAGE: CHINESE CALLIGRAPHY FROM THE JOHN B. ELLIOTT COLLECTION," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Jan. 7). In China the written word has traditionally been the highest art form and a source of political and emotional power. To see that power in action, check out this grandly scaled exhibition, which brings together two superb calligraphy collections -- from Princeton University and the Met -- in the most comprehensive survey yet seen in these parts. The dozens of scrolls covered with hand-written words collectively radiate a kind of conversational buzz and suggest a richly varied cast of personalities: fastidious court functionaries, impulsive social agitators, unworldly monks, visionary poets. Together they offer an ice-breaking introduction to an art that to non-Chinese speakers can all too easily seem unapproachable. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5 for students 12 and older and the elderly (Cotter).
 
 "AN ENGAGEMENT WITH FOLK ART: CYRIL I. NELSON'S GIFTS TO THE MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FOLK ART," 2 Lincoln Square, at West 66th Street, (212) 595-9533 (through Jan. 7). This show celebrates the largess of Mr. Nelson, a book editor and folk art collector, who has given 113 objects to the museum with the promise of more. The works, from the late-18th to the mid-20th centuries, cover the traditional areas of folk art -- portraits, landscapes, sculptures, painted and decorated furniture -- but the focus is on American needlework: quilts, coverlets, blankets and the like. Among the quilt spectaculars is the "Samuel Steinberger Log Cabin Quilt, Courthouse Steps Variation," by a 19th-century immigrant. Painted furniture, too, shines in this show. The painting and sculpture pieces make a more modest impression, but over all, what's on view represents a refined, solid ensemble that is very visitable. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Glueck).
 
 "HIP-HOP NATION: ROOTS, RHYMES AND RAGE," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Dec. 31). The complex cultural amalgam of music, poetry, break-dancing, art and fashion that is hip-hop poses a serious challenge to any art museum, but with the proper resources and curatorial expertise, it could have been done. Instead this show offers a partial outline of hip-hop history, conveyed by photographs, posters, magazine and album covers, memorabilia and monotonous expanses of clothes that make the show nearly indistinguishable from the gift shop. Garnished with graffiti art, it bypasses many other equally interesting connections to contemporary art. Because the show omits music videos, it manages to be virtually devoid of the sounds, words and moving bodies that are the essence of hip-hop. The results are a cross between a mall and a mausoleum. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. on the first Saturday of each month); Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $4; $2 for students and the elderly (Roberta Smith).
 
 "IN THE PRESENCE OF SPIRITS: AFRICAN ART FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF ETHNOLOGY IN LISBON," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Dec. 31). The more than 140 objects on view relate to the secular and the supernatural in African culture: masks, power figures, dolls, decorated stools and chairs, pipes, posts and other artifacts. Outstanding is a group of initiation masks made from wood and more fragile materials like feathers, fabrics and barkcloth fibers. Ranging from fierce to benign in expression, they are giddily imaginative. Impressive, too, is a selection of dolls, important in the socialization of girls, from the Ambo people of southwestern Angola. The objects in the show were chosen for their high aesthetic value, and it doesn't disappoint. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for children, students and the elderly; free on Sundays (Glueck).
 
 LEE KRASNER, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 7). Despite its restless energy and moments of formal power and elegance, Lee Krasner's career in this economical retrospective looks more like one of tantalizing frustration than real fulfillment. In the 1950's and early 60's, Krasner painted splattery, ambitious Abstract Expressionist works, but they look indebted to other artists, Pollock and de Kooning mainly. Where she looks most herself is in collage; a set of large collages on canvas from the early 50's have raw density or explosive buoyancy. Collages made in the 1970's using 40-year-old charcoal drawings have a beautiful Cubistic elegance; they are the best works of her career. Hours and admission: See above (Ken Johnson).
 
 "MOROCCO: JEWS AND ART IN A MUSLIM LAND," Jewish Museum, Fifth Avenue at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through Feb. 11). When Arab Muslims arrived in Morocco, Jews had already been living there for centuries, and the two cultures formed a cooperative and uneasy bond. Their relationship is explored in this exhibition, which offers a little bit of many things, mostly dating from the 19th and 20th centuries. In elaborate jewelry, shimmery textiles, liturgical objects and folk amulets, Jewish and Islamic ingredients often form a distinctive hybrid blend. A selection of European Orientalist paintings, by Delacroix among others, provide a firsthand outsider view of a once-vibrant interaction. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50 for students over 11 and the elderly (Cotter)
 
 "OPEN ENDS," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through Jan. 2). The third and final cycle of "MOMA 2000," the year-and-a-half-long millennium-marking rethinking of the Modern's permanent collection, is off and running, with the first of three staggered floor-through sections in place. The dates covered are 1960 to the present, so there's some sense of how a bastion of modernism is dealing with a postmodern world. Pretty well, judging from recent acquisitions of work by Pipilotti Rist, Matthew Barney and Cai Guo-Qiang. The real interest is in smart theme shows that play with such contemporary fixations as childhood innocence and adult experience, and the blend of art, abjection and design. (The third-floor galleries open on Nov. 5.) Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8:15 p.m. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and the elderly (Cotter).
 
 "PIERRE ET GILLES," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Jan. 7). No history of postmodern photography, fashion photography, celebrity portraiture, record album covers or the highbrow beefcake tradition would be complete without the work of the French photo team known as Pierre et Gilles, who have collaborated on over-the-top, tightly styled, hand-finished photographs since 1976 and become wildly famous in Europe in the process. In their first American museum retrospective, their work feels more than a little embalmed, existing behind a not-so-invisible shield of artistic conservatism. Certain images come to life as art objects -- most notably, one of a beautiful young sailor up to his chest in water with an iridescent night sky behind him -- but those are few. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, until 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3 for students, artists and the elderly (Smith).
 
 * BRIDGET RILEY, "Reconnaissance," Dia Center for the Arts, 548 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-5566 (through June 17). Once overly identified with Op Art, this British abstract painter never got her due in anti-Op New York, but this beautifully installed show of 40 paintings from 1961 to 1984 should change things. Concentrating on the early black-and-white paintings that made Ms. Riley famous, it presents stringently pure yet accessible works that have, at their best, extended the optical potential implicit in the work of Mondrian, Josef Albers and Ad Reinhardt. At their weakest, their meticulously calibrated patterns can be so aggressive that they virtually kidnap the eye, take it on a joy ride and leave it in a crumpled heap. Either way, the overall effect is of an artist of unusual dedication who has remained loyal to the original premises of her art and yet steadfastly refused to repeat herself. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students and the elderly (Smith).
 
 * SCYTHIAN GOLD. "The Golden Deer of Eurasia: Scythian and Sarmatian Treasures From the Russian Steppes," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Feb. 4.). "Gold of the Nomads: Scythian Treasures From Ancient Ukraine," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 21.). Certain kinds of art are box-office gold. Art made of gold is one of them, and there's a Fort Knox-size supply of the precious stuff in these two opulent exhibitions. The Brooklyn show is a survey-style glimpse at some exquisitely wrought 14-carat objects drawn from museums in Ukraine, where the Scythians put down roots in the first millennium B.C. The Met has drop-dead museological rarities from the State Hermitage Museum, but the focus here, which gives the proceedings a kind of treasure-hunt thrill, is on a cache of objects excavated fairly recently from tombs belonging to non-Scythian people whose identity is something of a mystery. Ideally the two shows should be seen together: they offer a really substantial archaeological update on the last big Scythian showcase in these parts, the Met's smash-hot "In the Land of the Scythians" of 25 years ago. Hours and admission: See above ( Cotter).
 
 * EDWARD STEICHEN, Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 4). A big, thorough exhibition, maybe a little too big and glossy, of one of the great photographers in American history, a restless, benign, flawed genius. Steichen also painted, made films, designed textiles, organized aerial reconnaissance photography in two world wars and put together the most popular photography exhibition ever, "The Family of Man." We'll see how people respond to someone whose eclectic work can look, if anything, almost too elegant and self-regarding. Steichen ultimately seemed to reduce everything and everyone to props to demonstrate his own refined and stage-savvy sensibility. But what refinement. His best work has a finesse that borders on the erotic. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8 for students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).
 
Galleries: Uptown
 
DAN FLAVIN, Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677 (through Nov. 4). Flavin's simple fluorescent-light works from the 60's illuminate this posh new gallery to simultaneously matter-of-fact and mystically radiant effect. The white ones have classic Minimalist rigor; examples consisting of just two or three colors are almost hedonistically sumptuous (Johnson).
 
 "REMBRANDT AND THE VENETIAN INFLUENCE," Salander-O'Reilly Galleries, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606 (through Nov. 18). The Venetian influence in Rembrandt's later paintings has long been noted; this show is an attempt to demonstrate by specific examples. But the topic is more suited to a museum presentation; this one mounts only a dozen paintings, three by Rembrandt and one labeled "Studio of Rembrandt," along with oils by Titian, Tintoretto and Veronese. It is too small and catch-as-catch can to make the case. The most salient example here of Venice in Rembrandt is his great painting "Flora" (circa 1654). Next to it, the other works in this show pale (Glueck).
 
Galleries: 57th Street
 
* JACQUES HENRI LARTIGUE, Edwynn Houk, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070 (through Nov. 4). This magical exhibition of more than 60 vintage prints was drawn from the private collection of the French photographer's widow, who died last May. Concentrating mostly on small, wonderfully lively pictures made when he was a teenager, it vividly conveys his boyish enthusiasm for childhood games and horseplay, his fascination with flying, racing cars and fashionable women, and his excitement about the miracle of photography itself (Johnson).
 
 TABITHA VEVERS, "Flying Dreams," Kraushaar, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 307-5730 (through Nov. 11). Updating medieval manuscript illumination, Ms. Vevers combines handwritten texts and deftly painted narrative imagery to document dreams of flight, her own and those of friends. One of these small, mysterious works illustrates the artist's dream of running a seaside flying school for babies, who are equipped with little golden parachutes (Johnson).
 
Galleries: SoHo
 
DAVID RABINOWITCH, Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Nov. 18). Restricting his vocabulary to circles, ovals and straight lines, and his means to pencil, ink or colored pencil, this Constructivist-Minimalist sculptor produced this series of extremely spare drawings during the early 1970's. Called "Construction of Vision," they are resolutely abstract and quasi-scientific. But the ellipses and angled lines, cleanly drawn with mechanical drafting tools, have a subtly playful animation (Johnson).
 
 CHRIS VERENE, American Fine Arts, 22 Wooster Street, (212) 941-0401 (through Nov. 11) and Paul Morris, 465 West 23rd Street, (212) 727-2752 (through tomorrow) With often piercing intimacy, this 31-year-old photographer chronicles the lives of friends and relatives in his hometown of Galesburg, Ill. Each of 60 richly colored, squarish images in this two-gallery show has a brief handwritten text added by the artist. Under the picture of a cousin, Steve, and his young daughter at a McDonald's, the text says, "His wife had just left them to go to a battered woman's shelter." A dozen prints, at Paul Morris, tenderly document the daily existence of Mr. Verene's grandfather (Johnson).
 
 CINDY WORKMAN, Lennon, Weinberg, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 941-0012 (through Nov. 4). Laminated to the reverse side of Plexiglas panels that are attached to the wall by heavy bolts, Ms. Workman's layered, digitalized montages of found imagery -- little girls, scientific or technical diagrams, girly cartoons and old smut photographs -- meditate on innocence, experience, consumerism and modernity (Johnson).
 
Galleries: Chelsea
 
ROE ETHRIDGE, Andrew Kreps, 516-A West 20th Street, (212) 741-8849 (through Nov. 4). Mr. Ethridge's clever orchestration of his own almost hallucinogenically clear photographs includes portraits of UPS delivery men in their trucks, head shots of two pretty young female models, close-up studies of young pine trees and a big picture of an ambulance that had just crashed. Believe it or not, these disparate images are persuasively connected by the theme of perfection and its tragic impossibility (Johnson).
 
 DAMIEN HIRST, Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111 (through Dec. 16). Welcome to the Damien Hirst Universe. It's a big shiny place with mathematical grid paper printed on the walls, pale pristine dot paintings and many large vitrine sculptures, including two outfitted as gynecological examining rooms and filled with water and fish. It shows the artist moving beyond the dead animals and putrefying flesh that catapulted him to fame while clarifying and enriching the grandiose themes of his art: life and death and their complex, sometimes oppressive relationship to science and commerce. It contains some undeniable duds, but if it doesn't win over those who have resisted the work of this notorious young British artist, it won't be for lack of trying (Smith).
 
 SHARON LOCKHART, Barbara Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300 (through Nov. 4). This cerebral photographer accompanied two anthropologists to former rubber-producing regions in Brazil where she photographed the humble dwellings of villagers and rephotographed their family snapshots. Both are presented in groups in the gallery. Another series of large color prints show a worker repairing the glossy stone floor of an archaeological museum in Mexico. It is all about "the ethnographic gaze" and it makes one feel perplexed and defensive (Johnson).
 
 SCOTT RICHTER AND BILL SMART, Elizabeth Harris, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 463-9666 (through Nov. 11). In opposite but equally engaging ways these two artists address basic elements of painting. Mr. Richter piles up paint into great heaping stacks of viscous color, exaggerating its sumptuous materiality to the point of absurdity. Mr. Smart reduces paint to almost pure primary colors in a series of square monochromes that have rounded corners and white circles like punch holes, giving Minimalism a subtle Pop spin (Johnson).
 
 ALEXIS ROCKMAN, Gorney Bravin + Lee, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 352-8372 (through Nov. 11). Inspired by a trip into South American jungles, Mr. Rockman's Pop-realist paintings depict a Northerner's lurid fantasies of tropical adventure and danger. One shows the artist himself gripped in the tentacles of a man-eating plant; another portrays him surrounded by parasites and dangerous fish. Something political about tourism is implied, but the satire is less biting than it should be, and the painting looks like overblown magazine illustration (Johnson).
 
 JANE AND LOUISE WILSON, 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121 (through Nov. 4). The British twin-sister video makers here direct their haunting ultraformalist vision to sites of post-cold-war resonance: two centers of research, training and development for the Russian space program. Focusing mostly on architecture and high-tech equipment, their four projections take you on a mesmerizing Cubistic journey through places that seem at once futuristic and dilapidated, a mix of "2001: A Space Odyssey" and "Blade Runner" (Johnson).
 
 RANDY WRAY, Derek Eller, 526-30 West 25th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through Nov. 11). To make his oddly confounding paintings, Mr. Wray first creates a funky, coffee table-scale abstract sculpture that he then photographs; the photograph is in turn digitally transformed into a kind of paint-by-numbers diagram that the artist copies in paint using brushes and various sorts of extruders, adding three-dimensional canvas elements as well. The final products are ambiguously suggestive and slightly creepy, hovering between pixilated abstraction and surrealism (Johnson).
 
Other Galleries
 
"REDRAWING THE LINE," Art in General, 79 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-0473 (through Oct. 28). This unfocused show of works in which line figures, literally or conceptually, includes an invigorating giant doodle by Diana Cooper; whited-out ledger pages by Peter Wegner; the image of a scribble cut from brown felt by Arturo Herrera; a dripped line from a performance by Francis Alys; a string sculpture by Pae White; and tangled plastic zip ties by Mungo Thomson. The importance of line in obliquely conceptual works by Alessandro Balteo and Sophie Tottie is harder to see (Johnson).
 
Last Chance
 
MAGDALENA ABAKANOWICZ, Marlborough, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900 (through tomorrow). This pre-eminent Polish sculptor's regiment of 95 life-size headless shells of human figures in rough bronze confronts the visitor here, creating a theater of tragic existentialism. On the terrace, giant, simplified dinosaur heads suggest a deep background of primordial terror (Johnson).
 
 "AGAINST NATURE," Sperone Westwater, 142 Greene Street, SoHo, (212) 431-3685 (through tomorrow). This elegant exhibition presents three famous Italian avant-gardists who, during the 1950's, sought a raw and biting materialism. Alberto Burri created Cubist compositions from coarse, stitched-together burlap; Lucio Fontana punctured his canvases or cut into them with graceful knife slashes; Piero Manzoni, later famous for more provocative conceptual works, is here represented by all-white, small but aggressively physical pictures, like one made entirely of little Styrofoam balls (Johnson).
 
 "AMERICAN MODERN, 1925-1940: DESIGN FOR A NEW AGE" (through Jan. 7) and "A CENTURY OF DESIGN, PART 2: 1925-1950" (through Sunday), Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. "American Modern," the larger and more interesting of these shows, deals with the period between two design extravaganzas, the Exposition des Arts Decoratifs et Industriels Modernes in Paris in 1925 and the New York World's Fair of 1939-40. Drawn from the Met's own collection and that of a patron, John C. Waddell, the show presents furniture, appliances, clocks, radios, cameras, textiles, tableware, posters and parts of a snappy blue-and-chrome dining room, along with other work by Bel Geddes, Deskey, Dreyfuss, Frankl, Loewy, Noguchi, Teague and Wright. "A Century of Design," Part 2 of a four-part survey focusing on European 20th-century styles, also draws from the Met's collection. Although studded with star names like Aalto, Breuer, Eames, Ruhlmann and Mies, the show is lackluster by contrast. There is no scarcity of famous chairs; other good things include a wonderful scale drawing for the Daimler-Benz sport convertible No. 3384 (circa 1933). Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).
 
 JOHN CONSTABLE, Salmagundi Club, 47 Fifth Avenue, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 929-5800 (through Thursday). This exhibition of more than 60 small studies by the famous English landscape painter is not uniformly great, but it has enough gems to urge a visit. A lovely study of a dark gray wind-whipped cloud under white-streaked blue sky is a fine piece of meteorological observation and, in its painterly vivaciousness, looks forward to Abstract Expressionism. Best of all is Constable's small but spectacularly rich and luminous watercolor copy of "The Mill" by Rembrandt (Johnson).
 
 * RINEKE DIJKSTRA, Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 977-7160 (through tomorrow). This Dutch artist's solo debut in the United States includes a video (much seen elsewhere) of dancing teenagers in European clubs and a series of photographs she has been taking since 1997 of children in parks. In the video the youngsters preen touchingly. The photographs, color pictures along the lines of Thomas Struth's but more casual and less chilly, are heroic portraits, acutely sympathetic (Kimmelman).
 
 * PETER HUJAR, "Photographs, 1980 to 1987," Matthew Marks Gallery, 523 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-0200 (through tomorrow). A show of 98 photographs from Hujar's estate, some never shown before. The prints, on a particularly warm paper that is no longer made, are quite beautiful. One would not use that adjective for the images, which are powerful and quietly, deeply disturbing, full of pain but resolutely refusing to dramatize it, now and again touching, now and again amusing in an elegiac sort of way. They are portraits of friends, some nude, some in costume, some engaged in odd enterprises like biting into a strawberry. They are portraits -- they cannot be called anything else -- of animals. They are images of destruction: collapsed houses, the flayed carcasses of slain cows, a dead dog on a heap of trash. They are intense and reticent at the same time. They are memorable (Vicki Goldberg).
 
 "PARADISE NOW: PICTURING THE GENETIC REVOLUTION," Exit Art, 548 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-7745 (through tomorrow). "We are at a threshold," declares the text panel at the start of this show. And we are, you know. Never mind that most of the art isn't great, because with more and more artists tapping into science, something big is bound to happen soon. Think of this as a preliminary report. The works span a decade and run the gamut from paintings and sculptures to the collecting of sperm and the breeding of very tiny exotic frogs. The artists fret predictably about tampering with Mother Nature and stress identity politics, also predictably, but the spirit of the show, an intangible, tips the scales in a positive direction (Kimmelman).
 
 * NEIL WINOKUR, Janet Borden, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 431-0166 (through tomorrow). For this delightful portrait of his hometown, Mr. Winokur has produced a series of 32 still-life photographs, each a crystal-clear deadpan picture of an ordinary but richly iconic object against a bright colored backdrop. A Greek-style paper coffee cup, a Chinese food container, a Giants pennant, an old Broadway playbill, a Con Edison orange cone, a hot dog, a rat, a toy-size Empire State Building: these images produce a resonantly evocative cross section of New York experience (Johnson).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A stag on view in the Scythian gold show at the Metropolitan. (Metropolitan Museum of Art); A detail from Jacques Henri Lartigue's "Avenue du Bois, Jan. 15, 1911," in a show at the Edwynn Houk Gallery on Fifth Avenue at 57th Street. (Edwynn Houk Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); WRITERS (60%); POETRY (60%); 

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); GIORGIO ARMANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



702 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
A Guy Thing: Strutting Past Trouble

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY 

 BODY:
SO what do you want to know first? Do they really take off all their clothes? Yes. Can you see, you know, everything? No, at least not from where I was sitting. And -- oops, almost forgot -- is it any good? Well, put it this way: the Eugene O'Neill Theater won't have to look for a new tenant for a long, long time.
"The Full Monty," the hearty singing adaptation of the popular English film about a motley male troupe of amateur strippers, opened last night in a blaze of pure mass appeal. The show calculatedly pushes as many buttons as an elevator operator, but it mercifully doesn't hammer at them. With a winning, ear-catching pop score by David Yazbek and a lively gallery of performers who seem truly in love with the people they're playing, "The Full Monty" is that rare aggressive crowd pleaser that you don't have to apologize for liking. 
 Well, for the most part, anyway. "The Full Monty," which began life at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego, is leagues away from the classic New York musical, the sort of urbane, witty fare created by Rodgers and Hart, on the one hand, and Stephen Sondheim, on the other, and currently represented among nonrevivals only by "Contact" at Lincoln Center. The book, by the multiple Tony Award winner Terrence McNally, is sometimes as lame and pandering as a midseason replacement sitcom, especially in the first act.
Fortunately "The Full Monty" has more to do than just talk. And as long as it lets its ideally cast ensemble translate blue-collar blues into vigorous song, it's hard not to sigh in appreciation and relief.
Hokey, formulaic, vulgar, preachy: "The Full Monty" is all that, but it redeemingly tempers these traits with an honest affection. The warmth the evening gives off has less to do with the titillation of its central premise than with its enormous good will. And it makes other Broadway adaptations of hit movies -- "Saturday Night Fever" and the late, unlamented "Footloose" -- seem as blank and sterile as an unilluminated computer screen.
There are so many ways the production could have gone wrong, too. The original British film of the same title, which was directed by Peter Cattaneo and became the Cinderella sleeper of 1997, was a shrewd variation on the classic mainstream rooting movie ("Breaking Away," "Rocky," "Chariots of Fire") in which underdogs triumph in a mist of sweat and tears. (It was made under the aegis of Fox Searchlight Pictures, which is a producer here, along with its former president, Lindsay Law.)
The revitalizing gimmick was undeniably catchy: having a group of unemployed steelworkers in the North of England come together to raise money by taking off their clothes in a one-night performance, emulating the touring Chippendales-style companies that have bewitched the town's working women. The story was simple, predictable and brazenly sentimental, kept this side of both bathos and slapstick by low-key, idiosyncratic performances.
There was something nervous-making in the idea of transplanting the plot to Buffalo for an all-American musical, a form that demands that everything be big. Scaling up the film's tear-jerking and ribald qualities and substituting the rah-rah antics of Buffalo Bills fans for scrappy soccer enthusiasts seemed to be a sure recipe for shattering charm.
The transformation is not without casualties. The characters in the musical are drawn more in crayon than in charcoal: they are baldly exaggerated types, defined by two or three large personality traits and no discernible interior life. And the pleas for tolerance -- for the identity crises of men out of work, for less-than-perfect bodies, for homosexuality (part of a late plot twist) -- that the movie kept sotto voce have been rendered by Mr. McNally with the equivalent of a rebel yell.
Yet while "The Full Monty" may not be subtle, it isn't shameless. Jack O'Brien's direction is disarmingly relaxed. And if Mr. McNally's book occasionally condescends to its characters, the performers themselves (led by Patrick Wilson as the earnest organizer of the strippers) never do. The broad mugging and rim-shot delivery that would seem to be unavoidable are consistently avoided.
The show is stocked with figures you would expect to be caricatures, from the prim executive and his shopaholic wife to the salty old retired club pianist who accompanies the men in their routine. Yet as embodied by Marcus Neville, Emily Skinner and Kathleen Freeman, respectively, these characters acquire a touching reality through judicious restraint. No one is pushing too hard.
There is also, conspicuously, Andre De Shields who, for the duration of his one big solo, seems to own the whole island of Manhattan. But more on that later.
The cast is immeasurably aided by Mr. Yazbek's score and lyrics, the success of which is the production's most refreshing surprise. Mr. Yazbek is a novice to the world of musicals, having worked mostly as a television script writer and a pop composer and performer. But he makes a much smoother transition to Broadway than more celebrated artists from the realm of pop, like Paul Simon ("The Capeman") and Elton John ("Aida").
Mr. Yazbek's ambitions are not lofty. He isn't trying to reinvent the organic musical or to out-Sondheim Sondheim. His formula is to infuse variations on top-40 styles, from the 1950's to the present, with Broadway brassiness. This gives his songs an air of immediate accessibility, even recognizablity. But they aren't the blatant pastiches that the numbers in, say, "Grease!" are.
Mr. Yazbek devilishly sends up the feel-good "You've Got a Friend"-style anthem with a terrific number in which three men consider how they might assist one another in committing suicide. A homage to lost masculinity slyly incorporates the cowboy theme from those old Marlboro cigarette ads.
There's a propulsive, percussive rock drive in the opening numbers that set up the opposing camps of the hapless men and the women who, for once in their lives, are in economic control. The lyrics traffic in outlandish rhymes with open, silly self-delight, using brand names, celebrity names and a steady flow of obscenities.
The show is weakest on ballads, which tend to flow in a treacly stream that brings to mind B-sides of discs played on easy-listening stations. But Mr. Yazbek knows how to bring down a curtain with memory-grabbing melodies, nicely complemented by Jerry Mitchell's choreography, which cleverly addresses the problem of creating dances for men who aren't supposed to be able to dance. And there is a flexible variety in the assorted character-defining solos, like the ones performed with bright panache by Ms. Skinner and with deadpan panache by Ms. Freeman.
John Arnone's neon-toned sets, suggesting a coloring-book version of the industrial cityscape from the movie "Flashdance," provide a fittingly bright frame for the performers, who are, after all, the main attraction. In the central role of Jerry, the young father struggling to scrape together money for child support, Mr. Wilson gracefully plays straight man to the eccentricities of the others, and he sings with shimmering sincerity. (His voice seems to emanate from his gleaming white teeth.)
Jason Danieley and Romain Fruge are delightful as the loopiest of the strippers, who discover a common affinity for "The Sound of Music." John Ellison Conlee is understated and touching as the group's token fat man, and Annie Golden matches him as his patient wife. The protean Ms. Skinner, seen to very different effect in "Sideshow" and "James Joyce's 'The Dead,' " here suggests a delicious hybrid of Nanette Fabray and Vivian Vance. But none of the performers strike false notes, even when the script does.
There is also the formidable Mr. De Shields, who achieved fame on Broadway as a member of the top-drawer ensemble in the Fats Waller revue "Ain't Misbehavin'." His character, nicknamed Horse, first shows up for an audition for the strip act. Arthritically gnarled, with the beaten, resigned expression of a man who expects nothing to go his way, Horse is not on the surface promising showbiz material.
But by degrees the old fellow unbends, thawing into pantherine agility with a resonant voice that growls, twangs and purrs. His number, called "Big Black Man," is a spirited sendup of and salute to James Brown. Watching Mr. De Shields perform it brings to mind those providential thrills occasionally afforded by karaoke bars, when some lumpy sad sack takes the mike and lets loose with the sound of a Sinatra or a Streisand.
A loser becomes, for just a few minutes, a winner. That's the transformation that "The Full Monty" trades on, frankly and unpretentiously. Even those who go expecting to sneer are likely to be surprised by the smiles that keep sneaking onto their faces.
 
THE FULL MONTY
 
Book by Terrence McNally; music and lyrics by David Yazbek; directed by Jack O'Brien; choreography by Jerry Mitchell; music direction and vocal and incidental music arrangements by Ted Sperling. Sets by John Arnone; costumes by Robert Morgan; lighting by Howell Binkley; sound by Tom Clark; orchestrations by Harold Wheeler; dance music arrangements by Zane Mark; conductor, Kimberly Grigsby; production supervisor, Gene O'Donovan; production stage manager, Nancy Harrington; general management, the Charlotte Wilcox Company. Presented by Fox Searchlight Pictures, Lindsay Law and Thomas Hall. At the Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, Manhattan.
 
WITH: Annie Golden (Georgie Bukatinsky), Patrick Wilson (Jerry Lukowski), John Ellison Conlee (Dave Bukatinsky), Jason Danieley (Malcolm MacGregor), Romain Fruge (Ethan Girard), Thomas Michael Fiss (Nathan Lukowski), Lisa Datz (Pam Lukowski), Marcus Neville (Harold Nichols), Emily Skinner (Vicki Nichols), Kathleen Freeman (Jeanette Burmeister) and Andre De Shields (Noah T. Simmons).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Andre De Shields, John Ellison Conlee and Patrick Wilson in "The Full Monty," at the Eugene O'Neill Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FULL MONTY, THE (PLAY); FULL MONTY, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO BILLS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: WILSON, PATRICK; O'BRIEN, JACK; YAZBEK, DAVID; MCNALLY, TERRENCE; BRANTLEY, BEN ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



703 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Labor Expenses for Businesses Climbed Slightly in September

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Labor expenses for businesses showed the smallest gain in a year in the third quarter, government figures showed today, suggesting that the 30-year low unemployment rate was not stoking inflation.
The 0.9 percent increase in the employment cost index in the three months ended Sept. 30 came after a 1 percent gain in the second quarter, the Labor Department said. The third-quarter increase was the smallest since a 0.8 percent rise in the third quarter of 1999. 
 While companies still paid 4.3 percent more than they did a year ago for workers' wages and benefits, the report suggests companies are under diminishing pressure to raise consumer prices. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and other central bankers have cited as one benefit of the record nine-year expansion the ability of companies to produce more with less labor thanks to technological gains.
"With labor cost rises tame and productivity growth ample, profit margins seem less threatened from this source than from nonlabor costs" like energy, said Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist at Banc of America Securities in New York.
Low unemployment also helped push up homeownership. A record 67.7 percent of households owned their houses in the third quarter, compared with 67.2 percent in the second, a report from the Commerce Department showed. A rise in ownership among Hispanic families to 46.7 percent from 45.4 percent led the increase.
The jobless rate -- declining the last five years -- fell to 3.9 percent in September, matching a three-decade low first reached in April. Unemployment is likely to stay in the 4 percent range, analysts said, after the Labor Department reported today that initial claims for state jobless benefits fell by 5,000 last week, to 305,000 -- about the level claims have averaged the last six months.
Wages and salaries, which make up about three-quarters of the employment cost index, rose 0.8 percent in the third quarter after rising 1 percent in the second. The third-quarter rise was the smallest since wages and salaries rose 0.5 percent in the first quarter of 1999.
"If workers continue to expect modest inflation, then they don't have an incentive to push very hard for higher wages," said Suzanne Rizzo, an economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York.
The overall cost of benefits, like referral bonuses, health insurance, vacations and the employer-paid portion of Social Security taxes, rose 1 percent, the smallest gain in a year. Benefits increased 1.1 percent in the second three months of this year.
By contrast, the overall index rose 1.4 percent in the first quarter of this year, the largest gain in a decade, largely reflecting the rising cost of health care.
Increases in worker productivity so far have outstripped wage and benefit growth in recent months. Productivity was 5.2 percent higher in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, the largest increase in 17 years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; HOUSING; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



704 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Investors' Late-Day Spree Gives Nasdaq a Brief Boost

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The growing belief that technology stocks are reaching a bottom turned the battered Nasdaq composite index around in a late-afternoon rally yesterday, but the overall market ended a volatile session mixed.
The technology-focused Nasdaq, down more than 140 points in early afternoon, closed 42.61 points, or 1.32 percent, higher at 3,272.18 after losing 190 points on Wednesday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 53.64 points, or 0.52 percent, at 10,380.12, but retreated from larger gains earlier in the day. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.46 point, to 1,364.44.
Investors seemed to be searching for a trend after Wednesday's session, when a disappointing revenue report from the telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks touched off a decline in the fiber optics and telecommunications sectors and brought the overall market lower. Yesterday's turnaround appeared to be linked to Nortel and other technology stocks.
Nortel traded erratically yesterday after a 29 percent plunge in the previous session. But it closed up 50 cents, at $45.50.
"The market is so quick these days to try to anticipate trend changes," said Chris Dickerson, an analyst with Global Market Strategists in Gainesville, Ga.
In the last hour of trading, investors began feeling better about technology, Mr. Dickerson said. So, they pulled money from the Dow to buy depressed technology shares, including JDS Uniphase, which reported better-than-expected earnings after the markets had closed.
"I think there is a memory that last week's rally was spurred by surprising earnings by Microsoft. And I think there was a feeling that JDS Uniphase would surprise," Mr. Dickerson said.
JDS Uniphase rose $3.44, to $74.44, in regular trading, recovering from earlier losses. The company released its first-quarter earnings after the close, and beat analyst expectations by 2 cents a share. Its shares slipped to $70.56 in after-hours trading after rising as high as $77.63.
Analysts said investors should expect prices to fluctuate given the current market environment, where any signs of bad earnings news send stocks tumbling. A permanent market recovery or even a consistent rally will take a while.
"The market is feeling for a bottom," said Eugene Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company. "We thought it had bottomed a few weeks ago."
Some computer chip makers also recovered from Wednesday's decline. Intel rose $3.38, to $44.69, and PMC-Sierra jumped $10.56, to $171.69.
But yesterday was not better for AT&T. The telecommunications company fell again, a day after it announced a major restructuring that would break the company into four separate units and dismantle plans to be an all-in-one communications service provider. AT&T also announced on Wednesday that it was cutting its dividend and warned that fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of expectations. AT&T fell $1.38, to $22.
No single stock or sector appeared to drive the Dow. I.B.M. was among the biggest gainers, up $5.69, at $92.69. Decliners included American Express, which lost $2.94, to $54.44.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Are Mixed
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices were mixed as a rebound in stocks cut demand for the relative safety of government securities.
Treasuries rose earlier as the Nasdaq composite index fell more than 4 percent, after a 5.6 percent drop on Wednesday on concern that corporate earnings growth would slow. The Nasdaq pared losses to gain 0.3 percent in late trading.
Investors "rescued the stock market and upset the bond rally," said Michael Cheah, who bought 30-year bonds yesterday for the $1.5 billion he manages at SunAmerica Asset Management. Still he's comfortable with his bets because a cooling economy justifies lower yields, while volatility in stocks, the Middle East and the euro may yet renew demand for bonds, he said,
The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to a price of 100 16/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.68 percent from 5.67 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 7/32, to 107 12/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.73 percent from 5.74 percent on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); JDU (TSX) (54%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (84%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (62%); INTEL CORP (58%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); GEORGIA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (83%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FIBER OPTICS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); 

PERSON: CHRIS DICKERSON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



705 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: European Report Says Hong Kong Tycoon Is Too Influential

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 26

 BODY:
This is a city ruled by business, so it is little surprise that a businessman, Li Ka-shing, is widely thought to be Hong Kong's most powerful person. The question is whether Mr. Li has become too powerful even for a city that celebrates his kind of empire-building.
In a report adopted today by the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, Hong Kong came under fire for allowing Mr. Li, 72, and his family to amass undue influence over the city's commercial life and its stock market. Saying the Li family's companies accounted for up to a third of Hong Kong's total market value, the report expressed concern that competition in the city was no longer fair. 
 In particular, the Europeans noted that Mr. Li had been granted a passel of exemptions by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for the listing of his Internet company Tom.com and that his son Richard, 32, had been awarded a lucrative contract to build a science park without open bidding.
"If there is any substance to these allegations," the report concluded, "they have significant implications for E.U. businesses who either trade with or locate their Asian headquarters in Hong Kong."
Though the European Parliament's judgments carry limited force, they nevertheless struck a nerve here. Hong Kong has built an economy far out of proportion to its size or population, based on a reputation for honest courts and untrammeled commerce.
The government rejected the accusations, saying that "all businesses, irrespective of their origins, are competing on a level playing field." It said the younger Mr. Li won the contract to build the park, called Cyberport, because he promised to build it quickly and to bear the risk.
The Beijing-appointed chief executive of Hong Kong, Tung Chee-hwa, said: "Hong Kong's economic freedom is one of the best in the world. It's the same or better than any of the advanced countries."
Unlike Europe or the United States, Hong Kong does not have antitrust laws. It relies on government agencies to monitor some industries, like telecommunications. And it takes a rigorously hands-off attitude toward business -- accepting as a fact of life that monopolies take root in small economies.
Mr. Li, who came here in the 1940's as a refugee from Guangdong province, just north on the mainland, is a testament to that laissez-faire philosophy. Starting as a maker of plastic flowers, he cobbled together an empire that ranges from telecommunications and ports to supermarkets.
His son Richard followed him into business, starting an Internet venture in 1999. Barely a year later, he began a $38 billion takeover of Hong Kong's dominant telephone company, Cable and Wireless HKT.
Richard Li's company, Pacific Century CyberWorks, has been humbled by an 80 percent decline in its share price since February. Still, with the exception of his father, he remains the most prominent businessman in Hong Kong.
And the Li family's influence does not end here. The Far Eastern Economic Review reported this week that the Chinese government had ordered the local authorities to limit the influence of Li Ka-shing's most prominent company, Hutchison Whampoa, in future port projects on the mainland. Hutchison, which already dominates Hong Kong's port, owns large stakes in the ports of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Xiamen.
A spokeswoman for Hutchison, Laura Cheung, said today that Beijing officials had not told the company they wanted to curb its role. She also said the European Parliament's report was inaccurate, adding that Mr. Li's companies accounted for only 15 percent of the Hong Kong market's value. Even adding Pacific Century CyberWorks, the figure was less than 18 percent.
John Cushnahan, the European Parliament member who wrote the report, said in an interview: "Even if it's only 15 percent, it's a substantial holding. More to the point, look at the way Tom.com was taken public."
Mr. Cushnahan said the government should secure passage of antitrust laws to reassure its trading partners that they would receive fair treatment. "When Hong Kong companies trade with us," he said, "they do so in an environment where monopolies are not allowed. It's only fair that they do the same for us."
Even business people who have tangled with Mr. Li question whether an antitrust law is the best way to curb his power. Jimmy Lai, a newspaper publisher who challenged Mr. Li's supermarket chain with a home-delivery service, cautioned that new laws would allow the government to pick winners and losers.
Mr. Lai said the bigger concern ought to be the relationship between the government and the Li family.
"It is true that some tycoons have monopolies," Mr. Lai said. "That's natural in a small market. But cronyism is something the whole world should focus on. We should base our judgments on his ability to push the government."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Li Ka-shing, Hong Kong's pre-eminent business executive, elaborating on the financial results of one of his companies early this year. For some European legislators, his market success is something to worry about. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2383 (HKSE) (56%); 0008 (HKSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALSACE, FRANCE (92%); SOUTH CHINA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT; TOM.COM; HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD; FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW TOM GROUP LTD (56%); PCCW LTD (50%); CABLE & WIRELESS HKT LTD (50%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT; TOM.COM; HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD; FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; EUROPE; HONG KONG (99%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ALSACE, FRANCE (92%); SOUTH CHINA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); TRENDS (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (53%); APPOINTMENTS (51%); ARTIFICIAL PLANTS MFG (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); REFUGEES (50%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (50%); 

PERSON: LI KA-SHING; LANDLER, MARK; LI, RICHARD LI KA-SHING (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



706 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: White House Reassures Steel Makers Over Imports

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Reacting quickly to pre-election pressure brought by steel companies, unions and 235 members of Congress, the Clinton administration has promised to take the first steps toward new limits on steel imports.
The industry and unions maintain that they are facing a historic crisis, and they blame foreign steel producers, which, they say, receive direct or indirect subsidies from their governments. They say the situation has resulted in six recent steel company failures, thousands of layoffs and historically low stock prices. 
 West Virginia and Pennsylvania, two of the largest steel-producing states, are seen as competitive in the presidential election. Vice President Al Gore needs union workers to turn out in large numbers in those states to beat Gov. George W. Bush.
John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, told corporate and union leaders in a letter this week that the administration would send emissaries to four nations -- China, India, Taiwan and Ukraine -- to warn them that the "dramatic recent increase" in their steel exports could soon be subject to higher duties or other restrictions. Mr. Podesta also promised that the government would take "all reasonable steps" to guard against import surges like those that damaged American manufacturers in the late 1990's.
The measures promised by the White House will not necessarily lead to new duties on foreign steel. But that the administration acted so quickly -- little more than a week after the industry appealed for help -- and without waiting for the industry to file formal charges through the International Trade Commission, an independent federal agency, indicates how politically sensitive the perceptions of a steel crisis have become.
"This is an unprecedented response; they jumped right into this," George Becker, president of the United Steelworkers of America, said of administration officials. "They recognize that there is a crisis in the steel industry, and intend to do something about it."
Administration officials acknowledge that they acted with unusual speed but deny that they did so for political reasons. They say they have learned to move quickly when confronted with the possibility of a steel crisis because earlier episodes made clear that the industry could not withstand prolonged import surges without vast job losses.
"This is not because of politics, but because there is real hardship and bankruptcies in the industry," said Gene Sperling, White House economic adviser. He said the actions were interim steps that could be taken while the administration researched whether broader legal action was needed.
The White House has so far resisted invoking a provision that would allow the president to impose blanket import restrictions temporarily if the International Trade Commission determines that imports have contributed heavily to the woes of domestic producers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (58%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (55%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (55%); WHITE HOUSE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (58%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); IMPORT QUOTAS IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN PODESTA (73%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



707 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: New Lawyers At a Big Firm Get Bonuses Of $35,000

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
A leading Wall Street firm, Sullivan & Cromwell, opened the season of annual bonuses this week, announcing on Wednesday that its first-year lawyers, most of whom began practicing law last fall at an annual salary of $125,000, would receive a year-end bonus of $35,000 this year. That is more than double the $15,000 that first-year associates received last year.
The size of the bonus demonstrates that the market for corporate lawyers is still extremely hot, and that keeping them remains a concern despite a round of salary increases of as much as 25 percent early this year. It also raises the bar for other top-tier law firms, which will have to decide whether to match Sullivan & Cromwell's bonus. 
 The timing of the announcement is sure to affect the firm's recruiting efforts both by attracting top law students who are deciding which firm to intern with next summer, and by impressing those law students who were interns last summer and were offered permanent jobs after they graduate but who may be thinking about going to other firms.
Some of those prospective employees asked questions about how much they could expect to be paid, prompting Wednesday's announcement, said Benjamin F. Stapleton, a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell. "People wanted to know and we told them," he said.
The bonus brings the total compensation for first-year lawyers at Sullivan & Cromwell to $160,000. Second-year lawyers, whose base salary is $135,000, stand to earn even more when their bonuses are announced. Sullivan & Cromwell announced bonuses only for first-year lawyers.
The bonus "creates a buzz," said Stephen Gillers, a New York University Law School professor who studies the legal industry, and that buzz is critical to recruiting because Sullivan & Cromwell is competing with other firms for the same narrow slice of the top of the class at leading law schools.
Raising compensation to such levels may create risks for some law firms if the economy slows down. Although firms are not obligated to pay a specific bonus, once given, it may be difficult to reduce in future years.
Less profitable firms may be reluctant to match the $35,000 bonus, which may be to Sullivan & Cromwell's advantage, Professor Gillers said.
"If 5 or 6 firms do it, and another 10 or 15 are behind, then you are creating an exclusive tier, and Sullivan & Cromwell will be the leader," he said. "You're first or you're an also-ran."
News of the bonus at Sullivan & Cromwell spread at the speed of the Internet among lawyers at top-tier firms in New York, filling them with anticipation of sizable bonuses of their own.
"Everyone here is incredibly enthusiastic" about the Sullivan & Cromwell bonus, said one junior lawyer at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, another large corporate firm.
"Everyone is thinking 'that's just the bar now,' " and other firms will have to meet or beat it, he said.
Partners at other firms were less enthusiastic about paying large bonuses, but sounded resigned to increases. "We haven't made a decision about the year-end bonus yet," said Rhett Brandon, a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, which usually announces bonuses in January. "It is our full intention to remain competitive in the marketplace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (95%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL NEW YORK UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; WAGES AND SALARIES; BONUSES LAWYERS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); BONUS PAY (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D STEPHEN GILLERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



708 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: New Optimism Brings Money For Franks

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Newly optimistic because of polls suggesting that Representative Bob Franks has drawn within striking distance of Jon S. Corzine in the New Jersey race for the Senate, Republican officials in Washington released $600,000 today to help Mr. Franks pay for campaign commercials, meaning the long-lopsided Senate race could appear an even match on television in its final 12 days.
The 11th-hour help, the maximum allowed by law, could be as important symbolically as it is practically. It will allow Mr. Franks to increase his television presence by about half. But it is also meant to broadcast the party's sudden shift in outlook about Mr. Franks's chances of victory. 
 "It's moved from a race that we had crossed our fingers and wished for, to a race that's eminently winnable," said Stuart Roy, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee.
Mr. Franks was ebullient on the campaign trail today, describing the race in David-and-Goliath terms. "I'm a real happy man," he all but shouted into his cell phone to an Atlantic City radio talk-show host while warming up in his van between bursts of hand-shaking at a Morristown train station this morning. "A clear perception is developing that momentum is wearing a Bob Franks jersey."
Still, even if Mr. Corzine's lead, according to one Quinnipiac University poll, has shrunk to five percentage points, that is a wide margin by the standards of recent statewide elections in New Jersey.
And Mr. Corzine, the Democratic candidate, received his own boost today: After several newspaper opinion pages backed Mr. Franks earlier in the week, it was Mr. Corzine who received two glowing endorsements, one from The Times of Trenton and the other from The Daily News.
"So much for the big momentum that we heard about yesterday," said Tom Shea, Mr. Corzine's spokesman.
Moreover, though the new money from the Republican National Committee will help Mr. Franks to pull even on television, television is not everything, as was illustrated today when the candidates released their latest campaign-finance reports.
As of Oct. 18, with three weeks to go in the campaign, Mr. Corzine had spent $52.8 million on his Senate bid, and was on track to spend at least $62 million by Election Day. By contrast, Mr. Franks's total campaign expenditures fell just short of $3.8 million.
Mr. Corzine's campaign spent nearly $500,000 a day in the first 18 days of October, his report showed. Mr. Franks spent about $70,000 a day.
While Mr. Corzine has now spent more than $11 million on television in the general election campaign, and is expected to purchase another $4 million or more in commercials before Nov. 7, his financial advantage may have a more pronounced effect in getting out the vote.
Much of Mr. Corzine's expenses, indeed, included polling, printing and postage for direct mail advertisements, telephone calls to voters, and fees and expenses for consultants and labor organizers who will be crucial to what is expected to be a $3 million, statewide canvassing operation on Election Day.
It remains possible, albeit unlikely, that Mr. Corzine, who so far has poured $52.7 million of his own money into his campaign, could match the $65.6 million that Ross Perot spent running for president in 1992.
Both candidates spent today gearing up in one way or another for what is likely to be an arduous campaign homestretch. Mr. Franks is set to begin a 12-day bus tour on Friday. Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, spent the early evening rallying Democratic troops in South Jersey at the party's Camden County headquarters and at an event in Voorhees.
Mr. Franks began his day in Morristown at 6:30 a.m. "Something's going on," he said, in between shaking hands with New Jersey Transit riders. "Wherever we've gone -- street fair, firehouse, what have you -- people are responding more than they did. They're saying, 'Stay in there,' and 'Run! Run!' There's a David and Goliath outlook."
Of course, Mr. Franks could not have picked a better place to start his day on a cheerful note. Morris County is a Republican stronghold, and the commuters he met seemed to have Mr. Franks's message down cold.
"I made my mind up about two weeks ago: I'm going to vote for Bob Franks," said Valerie Haus, an editor and writer for a financial house in New York. "Listening to Corzine talk and all the money he's spending just annoys me. The idea of buying a Senate seat is intolerable."
But not everyone was convinced. Hamilton McLean, an Internet consultant also headed for Manhattan, said: "I've only followed it as far as all the money Corzine has spent on his campaign, but I don't think it changes anything. At least I know more about where Corzine stands."
Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, spent the early part of his day along the Jersey Shore, beginning just before 7 a.m. at a foggy New Jersey Transit station in Middletown, the largest community in Monmouth County -- an electoral battleground that heavily favors Republicans but which Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, nearly carried in 1996.
After a relaxed breakfast with local Democratic officials at a small diner in Middletown, he visited a retirement community in Lakewood in Ocean County. It was his third campaign stop among the elderly this week.
Mr. Corzine bristled a bit during brief remarks before about 15 people in a small theater in the community. One man asked Mr. Corzine if the millions he has spent on television ads was an attempt to control voters.
Mr. Corzine responded that he was not about to follow people into the voting booths. "I don't think I control people when they go behind the curtain," he said.
Then, as he has said several times in recent campaign stops, Mr. Corzine said he was beholden to no special interest groups. "I am going to owe nothing to anybody but you," he told the small crowd. "I have not sold my soul to any pharmaceutical companies."
On the endorsement front, Mr. Corzine, who was scored in several newspaper editorials this week for his campaign spending, was given a welcome lift today when the opinion pages of The Daily News and The Times of Trenton both endorsed him. "Corzine's economic savvy, social conscience and personal integrity will bring to the Senate qualities it sorely needs," The Daily News said, calling him "truly a man of and for the 21st century."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaign stops yesterday for Representative Bob Franks, the Republican candidate in the New Jersey race for the United States Senate, included the Cheesequake service area of the Garden State Parkway. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; CORZINE, JON S; FRANKS, BOB (REPR) JON CORZINE (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



709 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Dot-Com Fever Followed by Bout Of Dot-Com Chill;
Tech Stocks Down, But No Threat Is Seen To City's Economy

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON and JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
A year ago, BigStar Entertainment looked as if it was living up to its name.
The New York City dot-com had just raised more than $20 million from investors excited by its plan to sell movies over the Internet. Some of its executives were paper millionaires. And with its offbeat advertising generating that all-important buzz, BigStar seemed well on its way to becoming a leading light in the city's Silicon Alley. 
 Today, BigStar is in big trouble. It has burned through much of the money it raised, dismissed about 70 of its 110 employees, and may soon be kicked off Nasdaq because its stock is now trading for pennies. David Friedensohn, 39, the company's chief executive, says he thinks BigStar still has enough money to hang in there. But, he said, "I can't make any promises."
BigStar has plenty of company. In the last few months, Silicon Alley's dot-coms have laid off about 3,000 people. They have given up acres of office space. A couple have gone bankrupt, and more seem headed that way. Even the big fish in the pond, DoubleClick, has announced that its revenues are likely to fall as Internet advertising drops (its stock, of course, has plunged).
All this is quite a comedown for an industry that held itself up as the hottest -- and coolest -- business sector in New York City. Just a few months ago, a report commissioned by the New York New Media Association, a trade association, said that interactive cyberbusinesses employed more than 100,000 people in the city and were "rapidly challenging many other traditional New York industry sectors as an essential cornerstone of the growth of the regional economy."
Or maybe not. The good news, perhaps, is that Silicon Alley is still not big enough to have much effect on the city's overall economic health.
"As a share of income and employment, it's 2 or 3 percent," said Jason Bram, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "That's not bad, but Wall Street accounts for 20 percent of income in the city," not including all the lawyers and accountants and temps and black-car drivers and bartenders who, one way or another, work for Wall Street.
Even economists who think Silicon Alley is important to the city's economy say the dot-com meltdown has had little measurable effect on overall jobs or unemployment data, at least so far. "We actually don't have too much weakness yet," said John Tepper Marlin, chief economist for Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi.
And for people looking for commercial real estate, the dot-com decline is actually a good thing. "So far, it has not had any negative effect, but a positive effect," said L. Craig Lemle, corporate managing director at Julien J. Studley, a commercial real estate broker. "The market is so tight many people cannot find places, and this is returning much needed space."
However you define Silicon Alley -- and some people define it so broadly as to include practically everyone in the city who uses a computer at work -- the industry was embraced by government officials. The Giuliani administration set up several programs to help foster dot-coms. Digital NYC strives to bring cyberbusinesses to Harlem and the boroughs outside Manhattan, while another program sponsors specially wired buildings in lower Manhattan.
Now, those same government officials are less likely to talk about the economic benefits of Silicon Alley; in fact, they play down its importance.
It "is a facet of the city's economy, it is not the singular driving force," said Robert M. Harding, the deputy mayor for economic development and finance. "You monitor it and encourage it, and encourage people to come and stay like other industries, but it is only part of the overall economic development policy of the city."
Part of the appeal of Silicon Alley to the public sector was that encouraging the technology industry would diversify an economy that was heavily dependent on Wall Street. But as it turned out, the most troubled denizens of Silicon Alley had less to do with technology than with raising and spending other people's money -- which is to say, with Wall Street.
Enthusiasm among investors (and therefore investment bankers) for anything related to the Internet -- no matter how goofy -- helped create many of Manhattan's dot-com companies.
Last year alone, venture capitalists -- the investors who finance fledgling companies -- poured $1.5 billion into New York City companies, according to the VentureOne Corporation, a research company in San Francisco. That's only 10 percent of the amount of money that surged into Silicon Valley, but it was more than triple the amount that New York companies got in 1998.
One reason these financiers were willing to spend so much was their confidence that they could quickly recoup their investments -- and then some. That was because stock market investors were willing to pay huge amounts for stock that venture capitalists got on the cheap. In fact, investors seemed happy to fling money at companies that they could not understand ("We supply resource-rich sync solutions in the optical space"), that had never earned a penny, and that did not plan to make money for years. Last year, New York Internet companies raised almost $3.8 billion in initial public offerings, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data.
The stock market party came to an abrupt end last spring, as investors suddenly slapped themselves on their collective forehead and said, "What were we thinking?" The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavy on tech stocks, has plunged 38 percent since its high last March. Silicon Alley stocks have been hit even harder, dropping 53 percent from their spring peak.
Now, it seems that no one on Wall Street will touch Internet stocks with a barge pole. New York City companies have raised a mere $150 million in the stock market since April. More than a dozen companies here, including The New York Times Company, have postponed or withdrawn Internet-related stock offerings.
This cycle is typical of Wall Street, and has been for decades, said Charles R. Geisst, a finance professor at Manhattan College and the author of "Wall Street: A History" (Oxford University Press, 1997). "They did it with rocket fuel companies after Sputnik went up," he said. "Everything that looked like it had any potential got financed; 80 percent of it falls by the wayside."
As a result of the drought on Wall Street, venture capital has become scarce, at least compared with earlier this year. "New York is being hit worst," said Bill Tucker, president of the Elevator Club, a networking group. "The people who are being hurt the most are the ones who are overexposed. I am just telling people to lay low and weather the storm."
Even within the high-tech business, some people say that the problems in Silicon Alley were neither unexpected nor undeserved. Last year was a bubble, "like the front end of the Dutch tulip problem," said Bruce E. Bernstein, president of the New York Software Industry Association. "The technology sector is not going to go away, instead it will shake out some of the most extravagant pure Internet plays."
New technology companies are still springing up all over New York City -- but most of them are focused on things like computer animation, optical switching and gene sequencing, said Ken Perlin, director of the Center for Advanced Technology at New York University.
"There isn't this whole idea that we'll hire a bunch of young kids and throw money at them and write a business plan later," he said. While he still sees companies that are more interested in throwing parties than in turning profits, he added: "I worry about them. That's not a revenue model, that's a buzz model."
And the Internet is not going away -- it's going mainstream, like the telephone. There will still be Internet jobs, but they are likely to be at stodgy, old-fashioned companies that don't offer stock options (or in-house ping-pong tables). One joke going around is that the shorthand phrase B-to-B no longer refers to "business-to-business"; it now means "back to banking."
"A lot of folks who will actually make money on this are household names," said David S. Berry, research director of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a Wall Street firm that specializes in banks and other financial institutions. "The technology is real, and it is having a real impact -- but whether it will be wielded by start
ups with funny names is another question."
And the Silicon Alley stalwarts that survive are trying their best to cope. BigStar, for example, has cut costs so that its film Web site is breaking even, Mr. Friedensohn said, and is focusing on turning its e-mail marketing abilities into a new line of business. And like a lot of other Silicon Alley executives, he said, he is open to merging his company with another.
As for no longer being a paper millionaire, Mr. Friedensohn said it did not bother him. In New York, he said, "There's always somebody making a lot more money than you. New York keeps you humble."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite a dot-com decline, the Internet won't go away. It will go mainstream. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. B1); An unlighted billboard at 22nd Street and Broadway. Even DoubleClick, a technology standout, has announced that its revenues are likely to fall. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Chart: "THE BOTTOM LINE: Decline of Silicon Alley"
Technology companies have dragged the Nasdaq down all year. The Alley Fund, an index of publicly traded Internet companies, shows that it's been an especially hard year for the Internet market.
 
Graphs show The Alley Fund and Nasdaq Composite Daily closings.
(Source: Internet.com)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); DOUBLECLICK INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); RETAILERS (59%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; BLAIR, JAYSON DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



710 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Dot-Com Fever Followed by Bout Of Dot-Com Chill;
What a Long, Strange Trip: Pseudo.Com to Dot.Nowhere

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
He still wears the uniform: leather boots, leather jacket and a dark T-shirt. He is twitchy, he grooms his sideburns and he smokes a lot.
Steve Fine is a dot-com guy without a dot-com and he'll accept a free drink. He is sitting in a bar on the Lower East Side in the middle of the afternoon pulling stolen software from his bag. 
 "This is it," he says to the bartender. "This is my severance package."
"How's your job hunt going, Steve?" she asks. She serves a lot of out-of-work new economy types these days.
"Not as good as I thought," he says. "But I've got my unemployment check, $308 a week, and I've got five and a half months left to find one."
He drains his free beer and orders another.
Steve Fine is a 30-year-old who has become a has-been before he ever became anything, on the unemployment line with 290,000 stock options worth nothing.
He was the art director for pseudo.com, one of the most flamboyant addresses on the World Wide Web. The company closed operations in mid-September after spending millions of dollars without earning a nickel.
Pink slips are blowing through Silicon Alley these days. According to industry trade sites, there have been about 3,000 reported layoffs at Manhattan technology companies since the beginning of September. Pseudo Programs, with 175 layoffs, is by no means the largest of these companies to go under, but its crash has gotten a good amount of press coverage, since its acolytes had crowed so loudly and flown so high.
Building a sort of online television network of video channels, its employees used to boast that they would destroy television as we knew it. Six years later, the networks are still here and Pseudo is nothing more than a memory of a brash company gone bad.
It is 5 o'clock in the afternoon and the bar is filled with unemployed techies who listen as Mr. Fine retraces his rise and fall, from working stiff to master of the new technocratic universe -- and back.
He grew up in Scotch Plains, N.J., a middle-class community where, he said, Italians lived on one side of the tracks and blacks on the other. Steve Fine called himself Steve D'Fino to anyone who did not know him, because being a Jew meant getting your head kicked in, he said.
His father, an industrial roofer and asbestos remover, went by D'Fino too. "There was more work that way," Mr. Fine said. It was a solid, middle-of-the-road childhood. There was a Cadillac in the driveway, but it was always aging and Steve Fine wanted out.
"I always thought there had to be more to life than an old car and physical labor," he says.
There was. It wasn't wealth, exactly; Mr. Fine never earned more than $70,000 a year at Pseudo. But in the new economy, a lot of money wasn't an essential for feeling rich. There were the trappings. In 1995, he began working in a hip 10,000-square-foot loft at Broadway and Houston Street, and spent time watching the European women walk by. Those women once would have laughed at him. Now they wanted to party.
Wealth was a state of mind, Mr. Fine said. The dot-com sons and daughters of middle managers -- once dropouts and misfits and nerds -- were suddenly at the epicenter of a limitless technology. It was a job in which you didn't really have to work. You surfed the Net. In the office, there was the electronic water pipe that five people could smoke at once. The scent was of marijuana, not the must of yellowing books. It was the way out of their fathers' 9-to-5 work world. Then there were those options that would be worth millions when some witless investor took the bait.
"We really thought we were going to make it," says David Mulkey, an ex-lighting specialist who earned $40,000 at Pseudo and who now plays music in the subways. "We were making art, we thought. And we were escaping the middle class."
"It was an amazing time," Mr. Fine remembers. "Geeks got girls and people thought we were a club."
For the first few years, Mr. Fine did work hard, more than 80 hours a week, he says. He had, after all, been raised with his father's work ethic. And he believed the work he was doing was important. His job was to design the Web pages for the different channels, design the promotional materials and logos and eventually to manage the mess that went with an out-of-control staff.
Employees smoked marijuana for lunch and snorted cocaine for supper. They slept under their desks. "It was wild and the Wall Street suits would come to the parties and get high and write us a check in the morning," Mr. Fine says between beers, a hint of pride still lingering in his voice. "We ate from the trough of the venture capitalist pigs."
Pseudo had started as an online radio station in 1994 before expanding to video, featuring boutique channels of hip-hop, punk rock and counterculture programming. It was one of the first Silicon Alley darlings and perhaps better known in the early days for its Warholesque parties, which were often held in the loft of Pseudo's founder, Joshua Harris.
"CBS is our competition," Mr. Harris once boasted on television.
Now, in the bar, the chalkboard reads: "Quit your dot.com!"
"No reason to quit," Mr. Fine says. "Nobody has a job."
Back in his school days, Mr. Fine was a misanthrope who wore a green Mohawk and drank 151-proof rum at the local amusement park. Italian or not, he still got beaten up and the girls made fun of him. He dropped out his junior year but earned his equivalency diploma. He went on to art school and came out thinking he was going to be a famous painter.
But no one was hiring famous painters at the time and he settled for working in a bookstore and then as a receptionist at an audiovisual company. He taught himself computer graphics there and went on to design T-shirts.
"Then in '94 I met a guy at a party," he says. "He told me about this joint called Pseudo."
With 300 employees, many of whom sat around doing little more than downloading pornography, the company ran through $18 million in 1999; it received $14 million more in May. Investors wanted to see some action. David Bohrman, the former head of CNNfn, a financial news network, was hired to run Pseudo. The suits arrived and things changed.
"It wasn't a freak scene anymore," Mr. Fine said. "The parties faded away and the regular work world took over. In a way it's a relief that I don't work there anymore."
The use of drugs in the office was banned. The content was paired down into a one-channel, talk-show format. Pseudo spent a lot of money covering the political conventions in a grandstanding ploy to find new investors. Few tuned in.
"Why would they?" Mr. Fine asked. "Cable does it better."
By the end, Mr. Fine was doing a whole lot of nothing. He was smart enough, however, to put a few thousand dollars in the bank. His savings plus his unemployment checks allow him to make rent, drink in the afternoons and wander the streets of Manhattan with his hands in his pockets mulling over his prospects.
"It's over," he says. "Now I'm crawling back to the corporate dog bowl."
A woman with two-tone hair walks into the bar. She, too, is an old Pseudo hand. She is an Internet consultant now. She "puts people together." Steve Fine hands her his resume.
He tells her he wants to start his own design firm. Then he regresses into talk about the Web and video-streaming technology. In the next breath he says he is a failure. And then it is dreams about a dog farm in Iceland. Then a farm upstate. He's shellshocked.
"I'm just down on myself and the whole thing," he tells the woman through cigarette smoke. "I would have been an architect if I was smart."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Fine, 30, the former art director for pseudo.com, owns 290,000 stock options that are now worth nothing. He is unemployed. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PSEUDO.COM

ORGANIZATION: PSEUDO.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); STOCK OPTIONS (52%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; FINE, STEVE STEVE FINE (95%); STEVE D'FINO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



711 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Kellogg Plans to Acquire Keebler for $3.86 Billion
Kellogg, the maker of Eggo waffles and Rice Krispies, agreed to acquire Keebler Foods for $3.86 billion.
The deal would combine the world's leading breakfast cereal company with the second-largest cookie and cracker maker in the United States, and bring together several widely recognized marketing icons, including Tony the Tiger, Snap, Crackle and Pop and the Keebler Elves. Shares of Kellogg rose $1.56, to $24.31, while Keebler rose $1.06, to $40.44. Page C2. 

Early Claims on Budget Surplus
Congress and the Clinton administration are still wrangling over the final pieces of this year's federal budget, but by the time they are finished they could spend more than 40 percent of the surplus that the two presidential candidates are counting on to pay for their own proposals, analysts from both parties said. A1.
 
Limits Promised on Steel Imports
The Clinton administration has promised to take the first steps toward imposing new limits on steel imports. A20.
 
Vinik to Close $4.2 Billion Fund
Jeffrey N. Vinik, manager of one of the nation's largest hedge funds, said that he would shut down his $4.2 billion fund and return his investors' money by the end of the year to spend more time with his family. C4.
 
Nasdaq Closes Up After Early Dive
Stocks ended mixed after a volatile session in which the Nasdaq composite index fell more than 140 points before rebounding in the afternoon to close 42.61 points, or 1.32 percent, higher at 3,272.18. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 53.64 points, or 0.52 percent, to 10,380.12, but the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.46 point, to 1,364.44. C10.
 
Europeans Criticize Hong Kong
In a report adopted by the European Parliament, Hong Kong came under fire for allowing Li Ka-shing, 72, and his family to amass undue influence over the city's commercial life and its stock market. Saying the Li family's companies accounted for up to a third of Hong Kong's total market value, the report expressed concern that the city was no longer a level playing field. C4.
 
DaimlerChrysler Profit Falls 78%
DaimlerChrysler said that its third-quarter profit fell by 78 percent because of a loss of $512 million at the Chrysler Group in the United States, and executives said that the bad times might continue well into next year. C4.
 
Law Firm Awards $35,000 Bonuses
A leading Wall Street law firm, Sullivan & Cromwell, announced that its first-year lawyers, most of whom began practicing law last fall at an annual salary of $125,000, will receive a bonus of $35,000 this year. That is more than double the $15,000 that first-year associates received last year. B3.
 
Measure to Halt Phone Deal Dropped
Deutsche Telekom won a battle in its effort to enter the United States when Congress abandoned legislation that would have blocked its proposed deal for VoiceStream Wireless. C8.
 
A Gerbil-Free Campaign for Go.com
Cliff Freeman & Partners, the agency responsible for the gerbil-launching ads for Outpost.com, is taking a more direct approach for promoting the revamping of the Go.com Web site. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,380.12 up 53.64
Nasdaq composite -- 3,272.18 up 42.61
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.68% up 0.01
The euro -- $0.8296 up 0.0015
The dollar -- 108.34yen up 0.20
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows G.D.P. and Durable Goods Orders since March.
 
Graph tracks Kellogg share price since Thurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: K (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (92%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (92%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (81%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LAWYERS (88%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); LEGAL SERVICES (83%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LAW PRACTICE (76%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); 

PERSON: LI KA-SHING (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



712 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET THREATENS CANDIDATES' PLANS TO SPEND SURPLUS

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Congress and the Clinton administration are still wrangling over the final pieces of this year's federal budget, but by the time they are finished they could spend more than 40 percent of the surplus that the two presidential candidates are counting on to pay for their own proposals, analysts from both parties said today.
Without even taking up most of the big-ticket promises made by Vice President Al Gore or Gov. George W. Bush in their race for the White House, the Republican-controlled Congress and President Clinton are negotiating over tax cuts and spending increases that could use up $900 billion or more of the projected non-Social Security surplus of $2.17 trillion over the next decade, the analysts said. 
 Should the two sides reach agreement on the main provisions, they would effectively reduce the surplus to $1.27 trillion or less.
Mr. Bush has proposed tax and spending programs totaling at least $1.9 trillion over 10 years. Mr. Gore's budget proposal totals at least $1.5 trillion.
Because the economy has remained relatively strong, the surplus projection is likely to be increased again when it is updated early next year, helping the new president as he submits his first budget to Congress. Early estimates circulating on Capitol Hill are that the surplus projection could be revised upward by anywhere from a few hundred billion dollars to $1 trillion.
The effects of this year's budget on the surplus could be higher or substantially lower than $900 billion depending on how a number of disputes are resolved in coming days.
For example, Mr. Clinton threatened today to veto a $240 billion tax cut bill, although he backs or has accepted many of its main provisions, including increases in contribution limits for individual retirement accounts and 401(k) retirement savings plans and tax breaks for economic development in poor neighborhoods.
Whatever the final figure, the allocation of such a big chunk of the surplus even before voters go to the polls suggests how quickly unimaginably large sums of money can come and go in Washington. And it is an indication that the agendas set out by Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush could prove overly ambitious even in this age of fiscal plenty.
"There's a disconnect between what's going on on the campaign trail and what's going on in Washington," said Robert Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan fiscal watchdog group . "The surplus number the candidates are using is unrealistic."
The Bush campaign said it was confident that money would be available for its $1.3 trillion tax cut and other initiatives and that if elected Mr. Bush would end the profligacy of both parties in Congress.
"Each of the past three years, despite Congress and the president agreeing to spend more money, the surplus surged as a result of stronger than anticipated economic growth," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. "The best way to stop politicians from spending more money is to put George W. Bush in the White House."
Doug Hattaway, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said he did not want to comment on a situation that was still hypothetical.
On the campaign trail, the candidates continued to attack each other today over their budget proposals. Much of the back and forth was about a report by the American Academy of Actuaries concluding that Mr. Bush's budget and Social Security plans would leave the nation unable to pay off the $3.4 trillion national debt.
Aides to Mr. Bush said the report's assumptions were flawed and stood by their estimate that their proposal would pay off the debt by 2016. Mr. Gore, who says his plan would pay off the debt in 2012, said the report was evidence that Mr. Bush's agenda was fiscally irresponsible.
It is unclear how the budget showdown between Mr. Clinton and the Republican leadership on Capitol Hill will play out. Some members of both parties say they expect deadlock on some of the biggest pieces of outstanding business, including the $240 billion tax cut package and a proposed increase in the minimum wage. Other Democrats and Republicans say there is still room for a deal in which both parties get most of what they want before Election Day.
Either way, it is clear that Congress and the administration are unfazed by the prospect of allocating a substantial portion of the surplus in a flurry of last-minute horse trading.
Asked for his assessment of the new budget, G. William Hoagland, the Republican staff director of the Senate Budget Committee, said the tax and spending legislation as it stood would reduce the surplus by $910 billion over 10 years.
Asked separately for his assessment, Thomas S. Kahn, the staff director for Democrats on the House Budget Committee, came up with a slightly higher estimate. Mr. Bixby of the Concord Coalition put the figure at $700 billion to $800 billion.
Mr. Hoagland said the increase in discretionary spending for this year to around $647 billion -- about $20 billion more than the Congressional Budget Office assumed in calculating its latest surplus projection -- would reduce the surplus by $310 billion over 10 years.
That figure assumes that spending in future years will rise at no more than the rate of inflation, even though spending in recent years has risen at a rate far higher than inflation. Discretionary spending encompasses everything from fighter planes to Head Start. This year the two parties have agreed to big increases for popular programs like medical research at the National Institutes of Health as well as for myriad election-year "pork" projects in districts all over the country.
An additional $295 billion of the surplus would go to two tax cuts: the $240 billion package that Republicans and Mr. Clinton were battling over today, and a separate $55 billion reduction in taxes on long distance telephone calls.
Increased payments to Medicare would use up $74 billion of the surplus, Mr. Hoagland said, with another $44 billion going to increases in pension benefits to military retirees.
The tax cuts and spending increases would come to $723 billion over 10 years, Mr. Hoagland said. But the surplus would actually be reduced by an additional $187 billion in interest costs, he said, bringing the total to $910 billion.
That is because the surplus projections assume that all of the surplus will go to reducing the national debt; to the degree that the surplus goes to other purposes, the debt, and the interest on it, remain higher than assumed in the projections.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP -- Easy Come, Easy Go"
President Clinton and Congress are negotiating over tax cuts and spending proposals that could use $900 billion or more of the surplus. All figures are for 10 years.
 
Non-Social Security surplus: $2.17
 
New tax cuts and spending:
Additional discretionary spending: $310 billion
Tax cuts: $295 billion
Additional Medicare spending: $74 billion
Increased military pensions: $44 billion
Additional interest from foregone debt reduction: $187 billion
 
TOTAL: 0.91
Remaining surplus: = 1.26
(Source: Senate Budget Committee)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); US 401K PLANS (68%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



713 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Five Myths

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: NANJING, China

 BODY:
The U.S. ambassador to China, Joseph Prueher, was answering questions the other day after a lecture at Nanjing University, when an American student rose and asked him something like this: Why is it that whenever I'm back home Americans ask me what it's like to live in a Communist dictatorship that abuses its people, but when I'm here in China I feel that I'm living in a society that's becoming more open?
The young man's question reflected an important truth. While views of China in America -- and particularly in Congress -- still remain frozen in many cases on the Tiananmen Square massacre, the reality here is now a much more complex combination of iron fists and Web servers, personal freedoms and political handcuffs. Here are the five biggest myths about today's China that the next U.S. president should know: 
 Myth #1: The main threat to the Chinese regime is a resurgence of the coalition of pro-democracy students and intellectuals who led the Tiananmen movement. Wrong. The fact is, the students have been among the biggest beneficiaries of the stability and foreign investment in China in the past decade, and they are unlikely to rock the boat. The big challenge to the regime is the workers and farmers who will be laid off as a result of China's pending entry into the World Trade Organization. Many uncompetitive factories will be shut down and 10 million farmers alone could lose their jobs as superior U.S. sugar and wheat start flooding China. Unrest among this group is the biggest threat to the regime.
Myth #2: The Internet will promote democracy in China. Wrong. Talk to Chinese dissident groups and they will tell you they can now send one million e-mails of uncensored information into China every day. That's true. But what can the recipients do with those e-mails? "If you just have information, but can't use it for organization or action to promote change, its political impact will be limited, and for now the Chinese government is still very good at preventing people from turning information into political action," said Michael Chase, who with his colleague James Mulvenon has been researching the Internet in China for the RAND Corporation.
Myth #3: The Internet will not promote democracy in China. Also wrong. Yes, it's true that the Chinese government has tried to block access, but it's not working. Come with me here in Nanjing and I will show you how to view online Tibet.com -- the official Web site of the Tibetan government in exile -- or NYTimes.com. No problem. Deep down, the leadership here knows that you can't have the knowledge that China needs from the Internet without letting all sorts of other information into the country, and without empowering more and more Chinese to communicate horizontally and create political communities. In the long run this will only give more tools to the forces here pushing for political pluralism.
Myth #4: Every Chinese youth is building a replica of the Statue of Liberty in his basement. If only that were true. The most popular political attitude among students in China is nationalism, with an underlying sense that America is trying to keep China down. As one Nanjing professor said to me, "I had a student tell me the other day that in 1989 he was in Tiananmen Square as a young boy and in 1999 he was outside the U.S. Embassy throwing stones after the Americans bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade." A lot of people assume the next generation of Chinese will be more liberal and pro-American. In fact, a more democratic China that truly reflects public opinion will be a more nationalistic China.
Myth #5: The natural successor to China's Communist system is Jeffersonian democracy. I wish. The most likely thing to come after the Communist Party is a mess -- unless the Communists can slowly introduce the rule of law and necessary governing institutions for a more open society. We may think the problem in China today is too much control, but in most cases it's too little control. Half the time the central government either has no idea what's going on in a province or is unable to get provincial leaders to apply laws. (Get ready for the fracas that is going to break out between the U.S. and China when every Chinese province tries to interpret W.T.O. rules on its own.) In the cold war it was China's strength that threatened us; tomorrow it will be China's weakness. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TIBET (92%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: NANJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TIBET (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); NANJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); NETWORK SERVERS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



714 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE GREEN PARTY;
Nader's Damage to Gore Most Evident in Oregon

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Oct. 25

 BODY:
In the downtown streets of the biggest city in Oregon, it is remarkably easy to find people who say they are truly struggling with how to cast their vote this year. But it is remarkably difficult to find people in that group who see the decision as a choice between Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush.
Instead, the choice they find so agonizing is between Mr. Gore and Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate. 
 Democratic leaders here and around the country have mounted a ferocious appeal to convince such people that a vote for Mr. Nader is tantamount to a vote for Mr. Bush. But while this argument weighs heavily on many minds here, there are also many voters who will have none of it. Oregon is the closest thing to Nader country, after all, where polls suggest his support is higher than in any other state.
"I'd like to vote for Nader, I really would," explained Kevin McGrorty, 31, the proprietor of Bad Kitty Koffee, a sidewalk stand. "I like what he stands for. I like the questions he's raising. But I've got to vote for Gore. I'd feel horribly guilty if I woke up the day after the election and Bush won, and if I felt that my particular vote had in any way could have swayed things toward him."
But no such conflict troubled one of Mr. McGrorty's customers, Danielle DeDee, a sales clerk at a local gallery and a fiercely pro-Nader voter. She knows her candidate is an extreme long shot on Nov. 7, though she said that was no reason to withhold a vote for him. And though she firmly believes that Governor Bush, of Texas, is "dangerous," especially on environmental issues, that does not mean that she would rather see Mr. Gore become president.
"If Bush gets in, I feel that it might bring things to a head much more quickly," Ms. DeDee said. "Pollution's going to increase in the short term, but I think that will bring a lot more people into the environmental movement a lot more quickly. Sometimes you've got to hit bottom before you come back up."
Oregon has voted for the Democratic presidential nominee in the last three elections.
But with plenty of support in the suburbs and rural regions of the state, Mr. Bush stands a very good chance of winning this state and its seven electoral votes if Mr. Nader drains away critical votes from Mr. Gore in cities like Portland and the college town, Eugene.
The same dynamic is at work in neighboring Washington State, and in some Midwestern states like Minnesota and Wisconsin, and perhaps even in California, the biggest electoral prize of all. But in no other state but Oregon does there seem to be more of a risk for Mr. Gore. That goes a long way toward explaining why the vice president showed up here at a rally on Sunday night, pledging to "fight to protect the environment with all my heart and soul."
Polls this year in Oregon have shown Mr. Nader with support ranging from 5 percent all the way into double digits. An American Research Group poll of 600 likely Oregon voters, taken Oct. 20-24 and released today, showed Mr. Bush with 45 percent, Mr. Gore with 41 percent, and Mr. Nader with 10 percent. (Of self-identified Republicans, just 1 percent said they were for Mr. Nader; among Democrats, the figure was 12 percent.) The margin of sampling error for the entire group surveyed is plus or minus four percentage points.
But whether those who now say they prefer Mr. Nader will actually mark their ballots for him is a different question. Democrats here are banking on the notion that a blitz of rallies, speakers and radio and television advertisements will persuade many of these people to support the vice president in the end.
The advertisements are aimed at voters in states with significant percentages of people who have indicated they support Mr. Nader. They focus on issues such as the environment or the prospects that Supreme Court nominees under a Bush presidency would be far more hostile to abortion rights than those who would be selected if Mr. Gore wins.
The argument that a vote for Mr. Nader could help put Mr. Bush in the White House seems to be backfiring."It's manipulative," said Joe Reinhorn, a shipping clerk for a computer parts company. "Some of my friends are arguing, 'Well, Bush is really bad, and Gore is somewhat bad, so it's important to vote for Gore.' Whatever happened to voting your conscience?"
Mr. Reinhorn and others also said that the main point in supporting Mr. Nader was not so much to elect him president, but to get him 5 percent of the total vote, which would award the Green Party federal campaign funds for the 2004 presidential election.
In some cases, the choice has split households. Susan Harlan, an associate professor of art at Portland State University, said she is veering toward Mr. Nader while her husband backs Mr. Gore.
"I just feel, in the long run, I'm being more honest by voting for Nader," Ms. Harlan said. It also bothers me that we haven't really been allowed to hear more from Nader, that he wasn't in the debates."
She said her husband, a systems analyst, was frustrated with her decision.
"He loves Nader, but he does not want to see George W. Bush in the White House," she explained.
"I appreciate Nader's left-leaningness," said Steve Fosler, who owns an architectural firm. "But a vote for Nader takes a vote away from Gore. It's as simple as that.
Tim Hibbitts, an independent pollster in Portland, has calculated that among those who indicate a preference for Mr. Nader in the polls, about half are unlikely to change their minds, in part because they view both major parties as "two peas in a very corrupt pod." The other half, he said, are more up in the air, and may well decided to weigh in on the Bush-Gore match-up if the race looks to be very close in their state, which it certainly does now.
One such a voter is Sean McCuen, 30, a mover and carpet layer who described himself as "temporarily unemployed."
"If it wasn't so close, I'd go for Nader for sure, just to show my support for what he's talking about," he said. "But if it's close, I want to be realistic. If there's really a chance of Bush getting elected, I guess I'd like to have a say about that. I don't want that to happen."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among Oregon voters agonizing over voting for Ralph Nader are Kevin McGrorty, left rear, and Steve Fosler. Danielle DeDee, right, backs Nader. (Photographs by Shane Young for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US GREEN PARTY (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); SUBURBS (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (92%); AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



715 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Undecided Voters Remain Skeptical On Soft Money Pact in Senate Race

SERIES: Undecided: The Soft Money Issue

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
The soft-money deal between the candidates for the United States Senate in New York has backfired, some undecided voters say, drawing more attention to the fund-raising activities of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio than if they had quietly raised and spent millions and not made an issue of it.
"They're both saying, 'I have more integrity; I want to stop this,' " said Bob Harrison, a high school social studies teacher in Amsterdam, N.Y. "But neither of them are following through." 
 Tom Smith, who works at a Wal-Mart near Saugerties, pointed to the same disconnect. "Publicly, they say soft money is no good," Mr. Smith fumed. "But privately they say, 'Give me all you've got.' "
Doug Taggart, vice president of a Wall Street financial services concern, said he was offended enough to consider not voting. The soft-money pledge was political theater, Mr. Taggart said, pointing to subsequent disclosures: Mrs. Clinton's use of a White House invitation list for campaign solicitations; Mr. Lazio's spending of money from the Republican National Committee for television commercials; and both candidates' attendance at fund-raisers to harvest soft money for their allies.
The latest fuss, concerning $50,000 from a Muslim group that Mrs. Clinton says she will return, might have passed without remark but for the context. "On the surface, it's not that big a deal," Mr. Taggart said. "But my question is, if it wasn't publicized, would she have given the money back? One gets cynical when there's such a long track record of egregious behavior."
These three undecided voters, part of a panel whose members have been sharing their thoughts on the Senate race with The New York Times for 10 months, have more in common than their perception that both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio have behaved hypocritically.
All of them understand, in broad strokes, that soft money is less regulated and more easily abused than other contributions, even if they are shaky on the technicalities of the candidates' pledge. All know that money can decide an election, leaving officeholders beholden to big donors.
"Would there be AK-47's out in the streets if the National Rifle Association wasn't cozy with Congress?" Mr. Taggart asked. "Would health care plans, good or bad, have passed if it weren't for the insurance lobby and the H.M.O.'s? You can go down the list. This is common-sense stuff."
All see the pledge proposed by Mr. Lazio -- to ban use of soft money, largely unregulated donations, for radio and television ads -- as a way of putting Mrs. Clinton at a financial disadvantage while staking out the moral high ground. "It was just a way to limit her war chest," Mr. Harrison said. "She has more to lose, so he's not the wholesome boy he wants us to think he is."
All say that the candidates struck such a narrow bargain that they left room for misconduct. They cite Mrs. Clinton's use of a White House invitation list, which she said was an honest mix-up. "Should we call it a brain cramp?" Mr. Smith asked. "A senior moment? It wasn't a legitimate oops, that's for sure. She was seeing what she could get away with."
And all think the candidates have been silent on the subject of campaign-finance overhaul legislation, a noteworthy misperception among otherwise well-informed voters. Mr. Lazio has voted twice for such a bill in Congress, and Mrs. Clinton has endorsed it.
"I haven't heard them say anything about it," said Mr. Taggart, the most diligent newspaper reader in the group.
Mr. Harrison, a registered Republican; Mr. Smith, a registered Democrat; and Mr. Taggart, an independent, are among a group of undecided voters culled from early New York Times/CBS News polls. The original panel of 11 has been winnowed to these 3, who say their minds are still not made up with Election Day near.
Two of the voters dropped out in May, unhappy with how the newspaper portrayed them. Tom Beck, a Long Island guidance counselor, cast his lot with Mr. Lazio, a familiar congressman from a neighboring district, as soon as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani withdrew as the Republican candidate. Two lifelong Democrats, Charlene Clinton, a mother from Buffalo on public assistance, and Dave Temkin, a telecommunications expert from Queens, settled on Mrs. Clinton in mid-September.
The latest to make up their minds, barring dramatic new circumstances, are Cathy Harrison, a nurse; Karl Schwartz, a computer consultant from Staten Island; and Barbara Smith, who inserts circulars in a weekly newspaper and also works in a day care center.
Mrs. Harrison, a lifelong Republican and the wife of Bob Harrison, has swung back and forth, leaning toward Mrs. Clinton after the candidates' first debate because of her assured presentation on upstate economic issues. But she has now landed in more familiar partisan terrain, choosing Mr. Lazio because of the first lady's "background, the corruption and everything with her husband." In a nutshell, Mrs. Harrison said, "I'd rather know I voted for a good person."
Mr. Schwartz, too, has chosen Mr. Lazio because he sees this as a one-issue campaign. Mr. Schwartz's wife, Joanne, has non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and he has been preoccupied with cancer. Mr. Lazio has been a sponsor of legislation to help poor women with breast and cervical cancer and, even more important to Mr. Schwartz, the congressman won an award from the Lymphoma Research Foundation of America.
Despite her customary loyalty to the Republican Party, Mrs. Smith, the wife of Tom Smith, has been inching toward Mrs. Clinton since the beginning of the campaign. The first lady's compassion for the less fortunate impresses her, Mrs. Smith said. She said she also admired Mrs. Clinton's demeanor during her very public marital difficulties, and how she handled the subject when it was raised in debates.
Neither Mrs. Harrison nor Mrs. Smith knows or cares much about campaign finance. But the rest of the panel defies the conventional wisdom that voters are not interested, capable of understanding or swayed by how candidates raise and spend money.
Mr. Schwartz said that "campaign finance reform is the most important mechanistic change we can make to rescue the political future of America." And Mr. Taggart said that nothing is more important than campaign finance reform when electing someone to the Senate, which he calls "the special-interest, favor-cutting branch of government."
There is a risk for candidates when voters know a lot, but not everything, about campaign finance activity. Sometimes, accustomed to misconduct, they will mistakenly assume a partisan fund-raising group is affiliated with the candidate who shares its views.
This is the case with Mr. Harrison, who has received strident fund-raising literature from the Emergency Committee to Stop Hillary Rodham Clinton, also known as the Conservative Leadership Political Action Committee. "Wherever Hillary goes, corruption, crime and cover-up follow," the mailing said, while seeking a contribution.
Mr. Harrison was unaware that the Lazio campaign had disavowed the committee. So the letter, copies of which were sent both to him and his wife, made him angry. He noted the return address. "Just a post office box," he said. "Who are these guys? They're sure taking away from the image of Lazio as an honest candidate."
 
Undecided
The Soft Money Issue
 
This is the ninth article in a series following a group of New York State voters as they make up their minds on which candidate to support for the United States Senate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Both Doug Taggart, top, Tom Smith, below, and say they are offended by the fund-raising practices of both Senate candidates.; After wavering between the Senate candidates, Cathy Harrison, above, settled on Rick A. Lazio. Her husband, Bob, who remains undecided, says neither candidate has followed through on campaign finance pledges. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: WSFC (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) WALL STREET FINANCIAL CORP (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (76%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); INSURANCE (68%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RICK PERRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



716 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Fashion Model Vanishes And Police Open Investigation

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

 BODY:
The police are investigating the mysterious disappearance of a former fashion model from the Upper East Side who they say has been missing for two weeks.
The woman, Lourdes Gruart, 46, has not reported to her job at a Manhattan executive-recruiting firm since Oct. 13, the police said. On Monday, a co-worker reported her missing to officers at the 19th Precinct station house, they said. 
 The police added that they did not know if foul play was involved.
"At this point we don't have a crime, so there is no suspect," said Deputy Inspector John W. Cutter of the Manhattan North Detective Squad.
Inspector Cutter raised an inconsistency between information that the police had collected so far and statements made by Ms. Gruart's brother, Mario, 31. Mr. Gruart told the police that he last saw his sister on Oct. 14, and that she told him she was leaving for a trip to Europe. But Ms. Gruart's passport has expired, the inspector said, adding, "At this point we do not believe she has gone to Europe."
In an interview with The Daily News, Mr. Gruart denied any involvement in the disappearance of his sister. There was no answer last night at Ms. Gruart's East 83rd Street apartment.
Mr. Gruart, who the police said is unemployed, has been staying at his sister's apartment for about a month and a half, said their mother, who is also named Lourdes Gruart and who lives in Plantation, Fla.
During her modeling career, Ms. Gruart lived in France, Italy and Japan and was a runway model for such fashion houses as Missoni and Armani, her mother said in a telephone interview.
The elder Ms. Gruart said she had been in close touch with her daughter and had planned to visit her for Thanksgiving. She also said that she had spoken with Mario Gruart recently. "He called here to know how I was doing," she said. "He said Lourdes told him that she was going to Europe for a couple of weeks and that's it. He said she was going to an interview for a good job."
 But Ms. Gruart added that "Lourdes would never go to Europe or any place without telling me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lourdes Gruart, 46, was reported missing by a co-worker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MISSING PERSONS INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%); MISSING PERSONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA; GRUART, LOURDES; GRUART, MARIO LOURDES GRUART (96%); JOHN W CUTTER (64%); MARIO GRUART (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



717 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: SUBWAY SERIES;
Holy Cow! Profits Are Outta Here!

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
With its concrete floor and exposed sheetrock, the small store near Grand Central Terminal looks like a bar with an under-construction motif or a place with no interest in a long-term lease.
And in fact, it won't be around long. This store trades in baseball ephemera, and will be gone before that Subway Series sweatshirt goes through its first rinse cycle. 
 There, and in temporary outlets throughout the metropolitan area, a Kansas company called Sportswon is peddling the gimmicks of the moment. There are Subway Series shot glasses, Subway Series pennants, Subway Series pins, Subway Series T-shirts seared with images of Derek Jeter's piercing eyes and Mike Piazza's Fu Manchu. For those with a spiritual bent, there are Yankee Christmas ornaments. For those with a romantic streak, Met earrings.
"Business is fantastic," said Tom Horne, the store's harried manager, whose forehead glistened like that of a base runner who had just gone from first to third. He was surrounded by items that were priced to make noses bleed. Most of his merchandise, as well as the Subway Series items being sold at stores everywhere, was feverishly slapped together in factories around the country so that people who live in the faraway city of New York could adorn their walls, their shelves and themselves with gaudy reminders and remnants of a certain baseball series.
In Seattle, Indianapolis and a Minnesota town called Winona, printing presses hissed to the glory of the Mets and Yankees. In Buffalo, machines hummed to embroider subway designs onto novelty caps. In San Diego, 20 people recently worked 15 hours straight to glue tiny metallic Mets and Yankees hats to World Series souvenir pins that had been produced weeks earlier in China.
Such nationwide dedication has allowed local businesses like the Grand Slam store in Times Square to push aside those Statue of Liberty cigarette lighters and make room for any inanimate object large enough to bear two phrases: "World Series 2000" and "Subway Series."
Those are the money phrases. And they have combined to create a red-hot moment for the $525-million-a-year sports-merchandising business. A trade newsletter, Sporting Goods Intelligence, recently chose a vivid image to reflect the industry's excitement: "New York Subway Series Has Retailers Salivating."
And even though the 4-2 triumph by the Yankees ended the formal playing of games in the series, the opportunity for making money will endure. It is an optimism undaunted by the claims of economists questioning the true impact of the series on the local economy. If need be, they said, they can show you the money.
The Yankee triumph, in fact, was hardly a headache, for the Yankees generate more sports-apparel sales than any franchise in sports.
All along, though, manufacturers worked overtime to meet the demand and to coin a catchphrase for the victorious team. The Mets victory on Tuesday thwarted the Yankees from winning four consecutive games for a third consecutive championship; that meant that Logo Athletic Inc. in Indianapolis had to reject tentative plans for T-shirts reading: "Sweepeat!"
Last month, the industry that brings material manifestation to hero worship and hometown pride began preparing for a harmonic convergence in baseball: a Yankees-Mets World Series. Beyond the shipping-cost savings from having two teams from the same sports-frenzied city, the matchup provided subtexts of nostalgia and rareness to exploit.
"This Subway Series has that added marketing play that they couldn't do if it was St. Louis and the Yankees," Bob McGee, the editor of Sporting Goods Intelligence, said. "They can convince consumers around the country that -- even if you hate the Yankees -- it's a once-in-the-lifetime thing."
Many major sports-merchandising businesses have New York consultants to advise graphic artists on which phrases and faces resonate with fans. This year, artists learned that Mr. Jeter of the Yankees and Mr. Piazza of the Mets had come to personify their respective teams; that the No. 4 subway line goes to the Bronx, while the No. 7 goes to Flushing; that Mets fans now claim ownership to the Baha Men song, "Who Let the Dogs Out?"
"We're looking into that," acknowledged Eddie White, a vice president for Logo Athletic.
Two guiding principles of the trade are to secure the necessary approval of Major League Baseball for every design, and to get the merchandise to retailers within hours of a deciding game. "You move in when the stuff is hot," Mr. McGee said. "And then get out of there before the stuff gathers dust on the shelves."
For example, shortly after the Yankees ensured a subway World Series by winning the American League pennant last week, workers at the Peter-David factory in San Diego dived into piles of pins. "We had all the Mets caps put on the day before," recalled Jerry Mischler, the company's general manager. "Then, about two in the morning, after the Yankees won, we put those caps on."
Peter Lindenbaum, an executive for the Modell's sporting-goods conglomerate -- with 57 outlets in the metropolitan area -- said his company had "if when" orders placed with factories around the country.
"The moment that the game was clinched, they started printing and producing the merchandise," he said. "We had trucks and vans that already had their routes planned out to get the merchandise delivered to our stores so that by the time we opened the next morning, at 7 A.M., we had the merchandise on the racks waiting for sales."
A brief foray into Subway Series semiotics suggests that the Yankees name or logo almost invariably appears above those of the Mets. "It is subtle," said Bill Whitlock, a Sportswon vice president. "But obviously, the Yankees have won so many for so many years now, and are favored for this one."
Then there is the near-deification of Mr. Jeter and Mr. Piazza. At the Sportswon outlet near Grand Central Station, a baseball bat bearing the likeness of Mr. Piazza was available for $129.87. That was cheaper than the $179.87 being sought for a framed, one-square-inch piece of pinstripe fabric that accompanied a photograph of Mr. Jeter.
Mr. Horne said the Sportswon outlets opened around the city a week ago, and will continue selling baseball ephemera for several days. And then, like the moments they try to exploit, they will vanish.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mercantile opportunities were seized faster than Roger Clemens throws: Joe Oliver, a vendor, sold T-shirts and sweatshirts in Times Square. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); NEW YORK METS (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); NEW YORK METS (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (71%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); CHRISTMAS (54%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN DEREK JETER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



718 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3409 words

HEADLINE: HIDDEN CHARGES: A special report.;
Extra Costs on Car Loans Draw Lawsuits

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES; This article was prepared under a joint reporting agreement between The New York Times and ABC News. A report on car dealers' lending practices will be televised tonight on the ABC program "20/20."

 BODY:
Shawn Core and Retina Massey-Core, newlyweds from Athens, Tex., were shopping for their first car -- a Valentine's Day gift for each other -- when they found a used Lincoln Town Car at a local Ford Lincoln Mercury dealer in 1995. With no established credit history, they were grateful when the dealer declared that they had been approved for a car loan by the Ford Motor Credit Company.
Ford agreed to finance the Cores' car at 14 percent. But that is not the rate they were told they got. Without their knowledge, Ford permitted the local dealer to add on two and a half percentage points. This increased the Cores' total finance charges by $466, which Ford immediately paid to the dealer. 
 This industrywide but obscure practice is called the dealer markup. In today's increasingly transparent world of consumer credit, it is an anomaly, almost a throwback to an earlier era.
Over several decades, laws and federal actions have pried open the credit process. Under fair housing laws, for example, all points and commissions must be specifically disclosed. More recently, banks and other major lenders have spend millions of dollars on credit systems that screen out subjective bias.
But there is no legal requirement that car dealers or lenders must tell consumers about the role dealers play in setting the interest rate on dealer-arranged car loans. At the dealership, the ultimate decision about a loan's cost is left to the discretion of an employee who profits immediately by charging the highest possible rate, even though the dealer has no money at risk.
Now this markup practice is coming under legal attack in at least five states, a joint investigation by The New York Times and ABC News "20/20" has found.
The Cores are plaintiffs in one of two class-action lawsuits in Texas state court seeking to have the markup declared a fraudulent and deceptive business practice. "If they're going to make money off the loan, then they need to tell people," said Mrs. Core in a recent interview.
A similar class-action case has been filed in California, said Jack E. McGehee of Houston, one of the lawyers working on the cases. In New Jersey, lawyers are seeking permission to expand an earlier individual case against Chase Manhattan into a class action. Litigation is also being prepared in Pennsylvania, he said.
"We're saying that this is a huge lie," Mr. McGehee said.
The dealers and lenders named as defendants in those cases, which include the Bank of America and the Ford Motor Credit Company, described dealer markup as a legitimate business practice that in no way misleads or defrauds consumers. Texas courts have affirmed this position in the past, they noted.
Dealer markups are also under attack in class-action cases pending in Nashville against the General Motors Acceptance Corporation and the Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation, two of the nation's most prominent auto finance companies.
Those lawsuits, filed under seal two years ago and recently made public, accuse the lenders of participating in arrangements that have resulted in black car buyers being charged higher dealer markups than whites, on average, regardless of creditworthiness.
"There's two problems from a consumer perspective with dealer markup," said Gary Klein, a lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center in Boston, which is helping plaintiffs in the Nashville cases. "The first is that it's secret. The second is that there's discrimination: blacks are typically charged more than whites in markup."
General Motors Acceptance, Nissan Motor Acceptance and the local auto dealers involved in the cases deny any discriminatory practices and say the plaintiffs' claims rest on flawed statistical analysis.
Car financing is an enormous business. In 1998, the most recent year for which the Federal Reserve has figures, there were more than $450 billion in car loans outstanding in America. This year, according to industry surveys, about half of the 17.7 million new vehicles expected to be sold will be financed. More than 75 percent of those loans will be arranged through car dealerships.
Industry experts say that the money dealers make on markups -- part of what dealers call "finance and insurance" income -- can make the difference between profit and loss for many dealerships.
The National Automobile Dealers Association and the American Financial Services Association, which represents lenders, say that markups compensate dealers for the expense involved in offering consumers the convenience of dealer-arranged financing.
Besides providing one-stop shopping for credit, dealer-arranged loans also give consumers access to more sources of credit than they would have on their own, especially if they have a poor credit history, these industry groups say. And they assert that the competition among lenders for each dealer's loan business keeps rates low even after dealers have added their "retail markup."
Lenders and dealers say that consumers who know their creditworthiness and the rates available from other sources can negotiate an excellent dealer-arranged car loan.
But consumer advocates dispute that, noting it is almost impossible, short of litigation, for consumers to find out the rates at which lenders approved them for dealer-arranged credit.
"If the dealers honestly think that this is a service that customers are willing to pay for, then let them tell the customers what they're charging for it," suggested Kathleen Keest, Iowa's assistant attorney general for consumer protection and the former chairwoman of the National Association of Consumer Advocates.
"I would very much doubt many people will think that it was a service worth three percentage points, or five, or even more," she said.
 
The Mechanics of the Buy Rate
With his strawberry-blond hair and blue eyes, Scott Zajaczkowski looks like a well-scrubbed choirboy. His earnest demeanor and college polish helped him succeed as a car salesman in the suburbs of Cleveland. "People trusted me. I'm an honest person, and I like to help people," said Mr. Zajaczkowski (pronounced Zage-ah-COW-ski).
But in the months after he was promoted to finance and insurance manager at his dealership, he became uncomfortable with his new role.
He said he was trained to persuade customers to pay the highest interest rates possible on dealer-arranged loans and to discourage them from paying cash or financing their car elsewhere. He was also expected to push other high-priced financial products, like extended service warranties and credit insurance policies that would pay off consumers' car loans if they died, he recalled.
After about 18 months, Mr. Zajaczkowski resigned. "I felt I was scamming people," he said. "I was so depressed."
His former dealership is now under new management, and executives there declined to comment on his remarks.
Mr. Zajaczkowski's reaction to his work is hardly typical, though. The finance and insurance manager -- or F & I manager, in dealer parlance -- is usually one of a car dealership's highest-paid employees, earning commission-based incomes of $100,000 or more a year, Mr. Zajaczkowski said.
Those paychecks reflect how important these "back end" products -- warranties, insurance and the loan markups -- are to dealer profits.
"We were expected to average $400 to $500 on all transactions, which includes leases and deals that you can't mark up because of special promotions," Mr. Zajaczkowski said. "So many are much, much more."
In his experience, he said, a customer's credit rating was entirely irrelevant to the size of the interest rate markup.
Dealers arrange car loans by collecting credit information from the customer and submitting it, by fax or e-mail, to one or more lenders -- major banks, the finance arms of major automakers, even local credit unions. The lenders analyze the customer's credit history and arrive at a minimum interest rate, called the buy rate, at which they would be willing to finance the purchase.
If the dealer quotes that minimum rate to the customer, and the customer accepts it, the dealer immediately sells or "assigns" that loan to the lender, which will typically pay him a small flat fee, between $50 and $150, for arranging the paperwork.
If possible, however, the dealer will quote a higher interest rate to the customer. If the customer accepts it, the dealer sells the loan to the lender and collects, from the lender, all or most of the cash value of the difference between the buy rate and the higher rate set by the dealer.
Some lenders, including Nissan, limit the number of percentage points a dealer can add to the loans they finance; other lenders, including G.M.A.C., will buy loans even if the dealer markup exceeds the fixed limit -- but will keep a share of the higher markup themselves.
Some lenders, bidding aggressively for a dealer's business, may impose no limit on markups at all. In those cases, finance managers "can charge whatever rate they want," Mr. Zajaczkowski said. "There's no rhyme or reason."
David Robertson is the founder and executive director of the Association of Finance and Insurance Professionals, a trade association for finance managers. He sees their role very differently.
In his view, endorsed by the trade associations for the dealers and lenders, finance managers are selling a service: the arrangement of credit.
"A retail merchant buys products at wholesale, sells them at retail and hopes he has the products his customers need -- and one of those products happens to be money," said Mr. Robertson.
Finance managers may work hard to find lenders willing to extend credit, especially to more marginal customers, he said. And finance managers have access to many more sources of credit than a typical consumer has, he added.
No informed consumer, Mr. Robertson said, should expect the dealer to arrange vehicle financing free.
Lawyers for the lenders and dealers point out that several earlier lawsuits challenging dealer markups have been largely unsuccessful.
The exceptions have been a few cases where the consumers could argue -- as Mr. McGehee's clients do -- that the dealers promised to seek "the best rate" on their behalf. Dealers who make such promises may unwittingly assume a fiduciary duty to look out for the consumer's best interests, lawyers say.
The Federal Reserve and Congress have declined to require dealers or lenders to disclose loan markups. The Truth in Lending Act requires only that consumers be informed about the actual interest rate and total finance charges they are paying. The loan documents that dealers use do that, although the dealers' own share is not disclosed.
To Mr. Robertson, it is just as legitimate to mark up the price of the car loan as it is to mark up the price of the floor mats the dealer sells. Must a grocer tell shoppers how much he marked up the lettuce?
No, consumer advocates answer, but the grocer bought the lettuce and is at risk if it goes bad before it is sold. Dealers have no money at risk in the car loans they arrange, they said, and are almost always free to cancel a customer's purchase if they cannot sell the loan immediately.
Moreover, they argue, the grocer does not pretend that the farmer actually set the price of his lettuce, nor does the grocer arbitrarily mark up the lettuce by 50 cents a pound for one customer and by $1 a pound for the next.
 
A Question of Discrimination
But what if this hypothetical grocer were found to be charging a 50-cent markup to his white customers and a $1 markup to his black ones?
That, in essence, is the allegation at the heart of the two class-action cases now pending against Nissan Motor Acceptance and General Motors Acceptance in Nashville.
The case against Nissan's financing unit began in late August 1995 when Betty Cason, who is disabled, went to a Nissan dealer in Nashville to shop for a four-door vehicle to accommodate the five foster children she is raising with her husband, Robert.
She selected a Pathfinder, trading in a two-door Chevrolet Blazer as her down payment and agreeing to finance the rest of the $24,292 purchase price through the dealer. She filled out an N.M.A.C. credit application.
The Casons' credit history is pockmarked with problems. But the Nissan credit unit would finance the Pathfinder purchase for 16.49 percent. The finance manager at the Nashville dealership marked the Casons' loan rate up to 19.49 percent, adding $3,520 to the price they would pay over the loan's six-year term.
Addie Coleman, a fragile-looking woman with two children, also went shopping for a new car in 1995, visiting a local Pontiac dealer. She, too, had a poor credit history and had been denied financing by several other lenders. The dealer arranged her loan with G.M.A.C., which agreed to finance the car purchase at 18.25 percent. The dealer presented her with a four-year contract showing an interest rate of 20.75 percent, which added $809 to her financing costs, and Mrs. Coleman signed it.
Both women later consulted Nashville Legal Services about other complaints they had against the local dealers and were referred to Clinton W. Watkins, a local lawyer. Initially, the lawsuits he filed on their behalf simply challenged the legitimacy of the loan markup.
But while litigating those cases, he and his co-counsel, Michael E. Terry and Wyman Gilmore Jr., obtained data on thousands of G.M.A.C. and N.M.A.C. loans in Tennessee. Using state motor vehicle records, they racially coded as many of the loan applications as they could.
They then asked Dr. Debby A. Lindsey, a business professor at Howard University, to analyze the loans -- roughly 9,600 from N.M.A.C. and slightly fewer than 5,000 from G.M.A.C.
Their theory was that the buy rate fairly captured all credit variables unique to individual consumers without respect to race.
In the plaintiffs' view, the dealers had no money at risk and should have been indifferent to any variations in consumer creditworthiness. So how did they decide how much to add to the buy rate on each loan?
What Dr. Lindsey found, in both cases, was that the amounts dealers added to the buy rates of black consumers were, on average, several hundred dollars higher than the amounts added to white consumers' rates.
Nissan ordered its own studies of the loan data, conducted by Dr. Janet Thornton, an economist with a private research firm in Florida. Dr. Thornton disputed whether differences in creditworthiness were fully captured in the lender's buy rate. Indeed, she argued, it was exactly those credit differences -- not race -- that explained the markup disparities.
Mark A. Cohen, a business professor at Vanderbilt University who confirmed Dr. Lindsey's findings, said that such differences were indeed examined, but they did not adequately explain the pattern.
The plaintiffs' lawyers said the dealers have testified that they do not consider credit factors when they set markups. The discriminatory pattern is "as bad, or worse" among consumers within the best credit tiers, said Mr. Klein, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers.
At a hearing in August, Anne Fortney, a former Federal Trade Commission member who is representing Nissan, dismissed the studies as unreliable.
"If I thought there was a problem here such as the plaintiffs described, I would not be defending this action," she said.
 
Defining the Dealer's Role
 In fact, the Nashville reports are only the latest in a decade-long series of studies that suggest there is pervasive discrimination against black car buyers, said Ian Ayres, a law professor at Yale University.
Professor Ayres, who also has a doctorate in economics, has conducted two audits of car dealers' behavior toward white and black customers, one in 1991, another in 1995. In each experiment, matched pairs of shoppers, identical except for their race, used the same script to negotiate for cars at dealerships in the Chicago area. And in each experiment, black shoppers got poorer deals, he said.
More recently, Professor Ayres analyzed five years of customer sales records from a Mazda dealership in suburban Atlanta. That data, too, showed that black customers paid higher car prices and larger finance charges than whites.
Professor Ayres said he cannot say for sure what causes these patterns: "There are lots of possibilities but none of them is inconsistent with old-fashioned racial discrimination by dealers."
The legal issues being tested in these cases are just as contentious as the statistical arguments.
The key question is whether the dealers are acting as the lenders' agents when they arrange car loans, as the plaintiffs contend, or whether the dealers are actually negotiating the loans and then selling them after the fact, as the lenders insist. The lenders' view has prevailed in many court tests and has been endorsed by staff interpretations from the Federal Reserve.
But the Justice Department, which recently has intervened in the Nissan case in Nashville, is arguing that the lenders actually exercise enormous control over the dealers as part of the loan process and should be held accountable for the outcome.
At a court hearing in August, Carolyn A. Evans, a Justice Department lawyer, noted that lenders design the application forms and limit how many points dealers can add to loans. They forbid markups on certain promotional loan programs. They determine how much of the markup the dealer can collect up front and how much must be shared with the lenders.
The Nissan finance unit makes dealers use its own forms to insure their loans comply with truth-in-lending laws, she added. "Why can't N.M.A.C. take steps to insure that the loans it approves and funds comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act?"
 
Getting, and Using, Information
These knotty questions are anything but academic for consumers making what may be, after their homes, the largest purchase they will ever make -- as Natolie Davis, a working mother who lives with her husband and three children in Bedford Heights, Ohio, can attest.
According to a lawsuit she has filed in Cleveland, Mrs. Davis had been assured by her local bank that she could get a 9.5 percent loan to finance her purchase of a new Ford Taurus she found at a Dodge dealership in November 1996.
Her dealer still arranged financing for her -- without her knowledge or approval, she contends in her lawsuit -- and found a lender willing to finance her purchase at almost the same rate her bank had quoted. Then, she contends, he marked up that loan rate, charging her 12.5 percent and receiving $963 in markup from the lender.
The dealer's lawyer contends that Mrs. Davis, who had taken possession of the car, did not provide proof of bank financing within the set time limit, and that the dealer had no choice but to seek financing for her.
The dispute captures the debate about markups: The dealer did, indeed, get a competitive loan rate for Mrs. Davis.
But that did not save her any money, since the loan's rate was raised. Over the term of the loan, the dealer's rate would cost $3,000 more than the bank rate, according to her complaint.
At least Mrs. Davis knew what rate she could command in the marketplace before she shopped for her car -- knowledge any consumer with access to a computer and the Internet can obtain. Consumers with excellent credit can now even arrange their loans online, through Internet lending services.
In the future, according to industry consultants, these developments could affect dealer-arranged car lending more than the litigation now making its way through the courts.
"The Internet has made consumers more aware of what constitutes a fair discount from the dealer's price on the car," said Chris Denove, a partner with J. D. Power & Associates, the customer-service consultants. "It has the potential to have an even more powerful impact for consumers who are attempting to finance their vehicles."
 
Preparing to Make a Deal
Consumer advocates offer these tips for car-loan shoppers:
*Before shopping, check with a bank, a credit union or an Internet site to learn what rates they offer.
*Ask credit agencies for a complete consumer credit history.
*Take note of the annual percentage rate the dealer offers, not just the monthly payments.
*Bargain for a lower rate; the dealer sets it and can change it.
*Never sign blank loan documents, even if that delays driving the new car home.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I felt I was scamming people," said Scott Zajaczkowski, who quit his job as finance and insurance manager for a car dealer in the Cleveland area. (Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times); Shawn Core and Retina Massey-Core of Athens, Tex., above, and Robert and Betty Cason of Nashville became plaintiffs in class-action suits against the practice of dealer markups on car loans. The Cores call it deceptive; the Casons say it is discriminatory. (Mark Graham for The New York Times); (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. A22)
 
Chart: "A High Price to Pay: An Interest Rate Markup, From Car Dealer to Customer"
The majority of loans for new cars are arranged through dealers. With more new cars sales come more loans.
 
NEW CAR SALES* (MILLION OF UNITS)
'96: 15.1
'97: 15.1
'98: 15.5
'99: 16.9
'00: 17.7
(estimate)
 
NEW CARS SOLD ON CREDIT
2000: 50%
 
CREDIT ARRANGED BY DEALERS
2000: 77%
Based on annual surveys of about 30,000 new car buyers.
 
Car dealers can mark up the lender's interest rate on the loans that they arrange for consumers without disclosing the increase.
 
BUY RATE
The interest rate that lenders forward to dealers after reviewing a consumer's credit rating.
 
DEALER MARKUP
Percentage points that dealers add to the buy rate to produce the final rate that the consumer pays.
 
A.P.R.
Annual percentage rate; the sum of the buy rate and the dealer markup.The only rate that consumers learn.
 
Mark ups affect a loan: one of three percent can cost almost $2,000.
Interest rate: 9% -- 12%
Loan: $20,000 -- $20,000
Duration: 5 years -- 5 years
Monthly payment: $412 -- $440
Total cost: $24,725 -- $26,429
 
Lawsuits claim that the practice of hidden markups can lead to discrimination.
 
AVERAGE DEALER MARKUP
Black customers: $969.91
White customers: $507.94
 
Based on a plaintiff's study of 1,792 car loans made to black customers and 7,606 loans made to white customers from 1995 to 1998 in Tennessee.
 
*Includes sales of fleet cars and some commercial sales, which make up about 1 to 1.5 percent of the total.
 
(Sources: J.D. Power & Associates; Lindsey report, Cason vs. N.M.A.C., U.S. District Court, Nashville)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (83%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (73%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; INTEREST RATES CONSUMER LENDING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FAIR LENDING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAWYERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (67%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B FORD LINCOLN (69%); SHAWN CORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



719 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
HAUPPAUGE: CELL-PHONE CALL BAN SIGNED
County Executive Robert J. Gaffney of Suffolk County yesterday signed what is believed to be the nation's first countywide ban on driving with a hand-held cellular phone. The bill, which the County Legislature passed Oct. 3, prohibits using a cell phone while driving, unless it has an earpiece or can act like a speakerphone. Emergency calls are exempted from the ban, which takes effect next Jan. 1, 2001, and carries a $150 fine. Tina Kelley (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: TERROR TRIAL SET
A federal judge in Manhattan set a trial date of April 17, 2001, for two men charged with assisting in a terrorist plot involving an attempt by a group of Algerians to smuggle powerful explosives into the United States near Seattle. The defendants, Abdel Ghani Meskini, left, and Mokhtar Haouari, have each pleaded not guilty to the charges and are being held without bond. Earlier this week, a federal judge ruled that statements Mr. Meskini gave the authorities after he was arrested in Brooklyn on Dec. 30 could be used at trial. Mr. Meskini had sought to suppress those statements. Benjamin Weiser (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: TERM-LIMIT MEASURE
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani fueled speculation yesterday that the City Council would try to end term limits for its members through a public referendum before the 2001 general election. "Something should be done about the whole city government going out of existence in one day," the mayor said, adding that "you probably have to change it through a vote of the people." Under term limits, 36 of the current 51 City Council members cannot run for re-election. Mr. Giuliani said he would not support any term-limit change to allow his own re-election. Thomas J. Lueck (NYT)
 
QUEENS: MAN KILLED IN CLUB
A 52-year-old Queens man was shot and killed early yesterday during the robbery of a Cambria Heights barbershop that is also an after-hours gambling club, the authorities said. The man, Ilvoius Lafalaise of Hollis, was among 11 people inside the La Belle Creole Barbershop on Linden Boulevard when the robbers, at least one of whom was armed with a pistol, burst in about 2:30 a.m. The robbers herded the patrons into the basement and ordered them to take off their clothes and lie down. It was unclear why the robbers shot Mr. Lafalaise, the police said. William K. Rashbaum (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: ANTI-MONEY-LAUNDERING GRANT
The United States Justice and Treasury Departments yesterday announced the award of $450,000 to the New York State attorney general's office and the state police to help state and local law enforcement officials develop new approaches to attack money laundering and other financial crimes. Officials said the New York State Police received $300,000 and the New York State attorney general's office received $150,000. William K. Rashbaum (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
PARSIPPANY: HOSPITAL DEATH
Investigators are looking into the death yesterday of a patient from Greystone Park Psychiatric Hospital. Luis Rodriguez, 50, a Greystone patient since 1997, was hospitalized on Monday at Morristown Memorial Hospital after he began vomiting blood. Prosecutors said that a patient told Greystone employees that he saw another patient beating Mr. Rodriguez. Both the State Department of Human Services and the Morris County prosecutor are investigating the death. Last April, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman ordered that the hospital, which has
 
JERSEY CITY: BRIDGE IS REVAMPED
The State Department of Transportation plans to make improvements to Route 7 near the Wittpenn Bridge, which was the scene of two crashes earlier this month that killed five people and critically injured another one. In both accidents, cars on the bridge, which crosses the Hackensack River, were struck by oncoming trucks as they reached a curve in the four-lane roadway. The department will erect a concrete barrier to separate the opposing traffic and will narrow the curve to one lane from two. Maria Newman (NYT)
 
NEW BRUNSWICK: POLICE OPERATED BROTHEL
A Middlesex County jury convicted two New Brunswick police officers yesterday of operating a brothel in a warehouse in the city. The defendants, Detective James Marshall and Sgt. Marco Chinchilla, face multiyear prison terms after being convicted on all three charges they faced: promoting prostitution, conspiracy and official misconduct. The jury deliberated less than eight hours over two days before returning guilty verdicts against the officers and three others. (AP)
 
TRENTON: WHITMAN TO GIVE G.O.P. RESPONSE Gov. Christine Todd Whitman will deliver the Republican response to President Clinton's weekly radio address tomorrow. Republican members of Congress and governors take turns delivering the radio remarks, according to a spokesman for the Republican Governors Association. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
NEW HAVEN: YALE BUILDING PLAN
Yale University plans to spend $250 million to construct a building and renovate other space for its art, architecture and drama programs over the next 8 to 10 years, the university said yesterday. Earlier this year, Yale announced that it would spend $1 billion to upgrade and expand its science, engineering and medical facilities. The university has already received $20 million from Sid R. Bass, the Texas billionaire and former Yale trustee, to help pay for the latest project, which will renovate 500,000 square feet and add 275,000 feet for classrooms and other space.Karen W. Arenson (NYT)
 
HARTFORD: OPINION POLL OF WOMEN
A majority of women in Connecticut feel they are not benefiting from the strong national economy, according to a new survey. When asked whether "the current economic boom reached people like you and your family," 57 percent of women surveyed said no. The survey, conducted for the state's Permanent Commission on the Status of Women and for other organizations, also found that 57 percent of women said they were having more difficulty juggling family and work than they had four years ago. The telephone poll of 400 women was taken Sept. 14-17.
 (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (97%); REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COUNTIES (90%); CITIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (87%); POLICE FORCES (87%); ROBBERY (85%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); JUDGES (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); BAIL (70%); ARRESTS (69%); SHOOTINGS (67%); REFERENDUMS (65%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



720 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: SUBWAY SERIES;
Unexpectedly, Series Brought Fans Together

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
Strange that something so extraordinary and enchanted had such a familiar ending. For Yankee fans, that accustomed rush of self-satisfaction in their hearts; for Mets followers, that old sunken feeling in the pit of the stomach.
But as the Yankees finished off the Mets last night at Shea Stadium, shards of something special were still clinging to the Subway Series. New Yorkers had somehow managed to become friends with one another. 
 At Shea, the vendors stopped selling beer sometime around midgame as a hedge against disorder. This made the night an especially long one for Eddie Sanchez, who went from concession stand to concession stand in the sixth inning in search of liquid anesthetic.
"Not even for the No. 1 Mets fan?" he asked a stadium worker, pulling out of the pocket of his Mets jacket a New York Post article describing his devotion. The stadium worker shook his head.
But fears of rowdiness proved unfounded, as they had throughout a Series in which the only relevant violence took place on the field, and even that was potential rather than actual -- a piece of wood hurled by Roger Clemens that missed Mike Piazza, who may or may not have been his intended target.
By the end last night, there seemed to be more screaming Yankee fans than silenced Met fans at Shea, but there was peace.
"There are this many Yankees and Mets fans and there are no problems," said Steve Santanastasio, 32, of Jamaica Hills, Queens. "That's the one encouraging thing about this."
Daniel Rush, 20, of the Bronx, a Yankee fan, pronounced it simply "the most incredible game I've ever seen in my life."
At a pizzeria on East 83rd Street, not far from the apartment of Mets pitcher Al Leiter, three Yankee fans and a Mets fan took turns buying each other rounds of drinks all night.
After the Yankees scored two runs in the top of the ninth inning, the Mets fan, Angelo Monterroso, said, "Hey, we still got last licks."
His friend Louis Atanacao, 35, said, "Yeah, you're right, you're right." There was a long pause. "Next year."
Both of them started to laugh.
As Bernie Williams pulled down Piazza's long fly ball to end the game, Atanacao and his two buddies jumped up and down and embraced.
For one long week, there was a spell over New York City. The weather was perfect -- clean and crisp, never too cold to play, never too hot to feel un-Octoberish. It was a weeklong holiday of the sort usually found in places where go-go-go is not the overriding rule.
If New York was not the center of the universe during that time -- according to the A. C. Nielsen ratings, most Americans watching television were not too interested in seeing the teams from the nation's most annoying city battle it out -- New Yorkers did not care. For one week, the games knocked the homestretch of a tight presidential contest and a crisis in the Middle East off the top of the news.
While the Series may not have proved the economic boon that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani promised -- after all, there was no out-of-town team to pull thousands of followers into the city -- it was a bonanza for the seeming thousands involved in the merchandising of baseball paraphernalia.
Now it is all over, except for the parade on Monday. Now New Yorkers can go back to ignoring each other, back to real life.
For Kevin Duffy, 25, a Mets fan who was slinking back home to the Bronx from Shea, this meant: "I go watch the Giants. You know, football. You've got to move on."
Tomorrow it is supposed to rain.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Zeile signing autographs for Mets fans at Game 5 last night. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES A C NIELSEN SOUTH AFRICA (50%); A C NIELSEN FRANCE (50%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY WILLIAM ROGER 'ROGER' CLEMENS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



721 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 27, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Prices Cool a Little for Apartments in Manhattan

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
Market surveys by two major brokerage companies indicate that average sales prices for Manhattan apartments moderated a bit in this year's third quarter, with one report showing a 5 percent increase and the other -- coming off a record average price of almost $855,000 during the previous quarter -- indicating a 7.7 percent decline.
Price increases at the luxury end remained strong, however. 
 "My sense is that people have done a reality check and are more deliberate in their purchase decisions," said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal company that prepares one of the Manhattan reports, for the Douglas Elliman brokerage company.
Even with its high-altitude price tags, the Manhattan market in the third quarter was a barometer of the wider economy, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
"This is really consistent with the performance of the national and regional economy, where the long-awaited soft landing started to take effect in the third quarter," Dr. Hughes said. "The first and second quarters of 2000 showed explosive growth, which slowed to simply strong growth in the third quarter -- but still a slowdown. So it's not surprising that this economic change was directly reflected in the Manhattan housing market."
In July, the Elliman survey of apartment sales below West 116th Street and East 96th Street reported a record average price of $854,704 in the second quarter. But the Elliman report released last week, for the period ended Sept. 30, indicated an average price of $789,225, a 7.7 percent drop. There were 2,089 sales surveyed for the new report.
Mr. Miller pointed out that even with the decline, the third-quarter figure was up 38.7 percent from the average price of $569,005 at the end of 1999. "The condo market, in particular, spiked during the prior quarters," he said, "and now has resumed a more normal pattern."
Dr. Hughes welcomed the respite. "The double-digit increases that we've had over the past year in Manhattan, if sustained, could ultimately yield a price bubble similar to what we experienced in the late 1980's," he said. "The bursting of that bubble made the ensuing recession the worst downturn in the city since the Great Depression."
According to the second survey, the Corcoran report, which was released this week, the average price for apartments below 125th Street during the third quarter was $759,000, up 5 percent from $723,000 at the end of June and up 24 percent from $614,000 at the end of 1999.
The surveys differ slightly in the neighborhoods they cover and the transactions they record. The Elliman report does not include condominiums, while the Corcoran report does.
"Although the gains are still strong," said Barbara Corcoran, chairwoman of the Corcoran Group, "it's a slower rate than in the first half of the year."
Asked what caused the slower rate, Ms. Corcoran said: "People are exhausted by runaway prices. After looking at a handful of apartments for a lot of money, they are tired of saying: 'Is that all I can get?'
"Also, there's a lot of change in the air: who will be the new president, what's going to happen with the stock market? Whenever there's a lot of change, people take a breath. They are praying that prices stop going up; thinking, 'Enough already.' And when enough people think that, they make it happen."
But there seems to be no brake on the high end of the market.
In what the Corcoran report calls its super-luxury category -- apartments selling for more than $5 million -- the average price in the third quarter was $5,846,000, up 13 percent from $5,180,000 in December 1999. There were 145 super-luxury sales surveyed for the report. "The most coveted apartment in Manhattan today is nine rooms and larger with a $4 million to $5 million price tag," Ms. Corcoran said.
In the Elliman report, the average price of luxury co-ops in the third quarter was $2,621,667, a 12.7 percent increase over $2,325,850 at the end of 1999. The Elliman luxury survey was based on 117 co-op sales (of apartments with two or more bedrooms on Fifth Avenue, Park Avenue and Central Park West) in the third quarter. Neither report analyzed luxury sales on a quarterly basis because, Corcoran and Elliman officials said, the samples are small.
In his assessment of the marketwide trends shown in the Elliman survey, Mr. Miller noted that besides average price, sales volume declined in the third quarter from the year-earlier quarter, dropping 15 percent, to to 2,089 transactions, from 2,447. But he attributed that slip in sales to factors other than lack of buyer interest.
Citing what industry officials call the listing discount -- the difference between the last price listed by the seller and the actual sales price -- Mr. Miller said listing discounts averaged only 1.3 percent in the third quarter, "which means apartments are still selling at just about full price."
"That tells me the decline in volume is attributable to the lack of inventory, not lack of interest," he said.
Most new development in Manhattan has been aimed at the high-end market. "As a result," Mr. Miller said, "a building constructed today might contain 100 very large apartments whereas, if it was constructed in 1986, it might have had 300 units. So we have a lot fewer units coming on the market for entry-level and middle-level buyers. That's a factor in the decline in sales volume.
"We're still seeing bidding wars." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
The Residential Real Estate column last Friday about two market surveys that showed a cooling in average sales prices for Manhattan apartments referred incorrectly to a sample used in one of them. The survey by the Douglas Elliman company omitted condominium sales in calculating average sales in the luxury apartment category only, not for all apartments in the study.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CORCORAN GROUP; DOUGLAS ELLIMAN DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORCORAN GROUP; DOUGLAS ELLIMAN RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); ; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); APARTMENT HOUSES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS REAL ESTATE (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (86%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS WOLFE 'JONATHAN' MILLER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000



722 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Unfair Car Loans

 BODY:
Black plaintiffs have sued automobile finance companies because, they say, the companies charged them more for their loans than they charged comparable white borrowers. The lenders reject the accusation that their loans are racially discriminatory, pointing out that they never knew the race of the borrowers. That might seem like an ironclad defense. But the Department of Justice does not think so, and it has properly weighed in on the side of the plaintiffs.
In one lawsuit filed in Nashville two years ago, according to documents pried loose by The Times and ABC News, a black couple purchased a Nissan vehicle with money borrowed from the Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation. The lender never met the borrowers. Instead the dealer met with the couple and submitted an application to the lender, who set a minimum interest rate based on the couple's credit rating. The dealer then decided how much of a markup to add to that rate. The dealer and lender split the proceeds of the markup, which cost the borrowers thousands of dollars over the loan's life. 
 The plaintiffs maintain that the markups are typically higher for black borrowers than for white borrowers with comparable income, wealth and credit records. That difference, the Justice Department agrees, violates the fair-lending rules even if the lending process took no intentional account of race.
The dealers may not be biased. They presumably set the markups to maximize profits and are able to charge applicants who have few alternative sources of loans -- often blacks -- more than applicants who can easily borrow from banks or family. Blacks may wind up paying more even if the dealers have no discriminatory motives.
The lenders say that if the dealers are responsible for discriminatory markups, sue them. But, Justice argues, the lenders control the loans and are therefore legally responsible. It also makes sense to put liability on the people who can most easily monitor and enforce the fair-lending rules, namely the large lenders. The lenders created the system. They should be compelled to fix it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (56%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (83%); DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); TENNESSEE, USA (56%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); FAIR LENDING (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); LITIGATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



723 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Media Giants in Joint Deal for Harcourt

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
The media giants Reed Elsevier and the Thomson Corporation are buying Harcourt General for $4.4 billion in cash and the assumption of $1.2 billion of debt, a lower-than-expected price for one of the largest acquisitions in the publishing business.
The main reason for the low price, analysts said, is that consolidation in the educational and professional publishing businesses -- Harcourt's core -- has progressed so far that there are almost no bidders left. Each of Harcourt's main businesses is dominated by just three or four companies, like McGraw-Hill or Pearson. Almost all potential bidders faced antitrust problems or had balance sheets full from recent acquisitions. 
 "If you look at all the potential acquirers, people are already maxed out," said Gareth Thomas, an analyst at Commerzbank Securities in London.
Under the terms of the joint acquisition, which will require the approval of antitrust regulators in the United States and Europe, Reed Elsevier has agreed to buy all of Harcourt and then sell about 30 percent of it to Thomson for $2.06 billion in cash.
Reed Elsevier, a British-Dutch publisher, pursued the deal primarily for Harcourt's legal, scientific, technical and medical publishing businesses. Reed Elsevier is already the largest company in that market by far.
"The breadth and depth of Harcourt's journals fit well," said Crispin Davis, the chief executive of Reed Elsevier. Harcourt is particularly strong in medical journals, where Reed Elsevier is somewhat weaker, he said.
Reed Elsevier will also retain Harcourt General's elementary and high school publishing business. Harcourt is one of the largest publishers of elementary and high school textbooks in the United States, while Reed Elsevier sells textbooks in other English-speaking countries. At least for the moment, Reed Elsevier will also keep Harcourt's small trade-book publishing operations.
Thomson, which is based in Toronto, will acquire Harcourt's units that provide online training and testing to adults, as well as its higher-education publishing business.
Richard J. Harrington, the chief executive of Thomson, said the acquisition satisfied the company's plans to expand into the online training business, a market growing at a rate of about 25 percent a year.
"The idea of learning after college to improve your wages or your position in business is really driving hard, and businesses are interested in the training and development of their people," he said. Harcourt is the second-largest company in online training, behind Smart Force.
The advent of the online services increased the economies of scale in both higher-education publishing and adult education, he said. As universities customize online curriculums, professors edit their own print-on-demand textbooks and companies contract for online employee testing and training, large educational publishers can spread the costs of the new technology over more products and revenue, he said.
Thomson expects to cut the expenses of the units it is acquiring by $75 million a year within three years. The units have a combined annual revenue of about $750 million.
For Harcourt's chairman, Richard Smith, whose family owns 28 percent of the company's stock, the sale ends a 40-year odyssey through the business world. It began with his father's chain of drive-in movies and included acquisitions in soft-drink bottling, department stores, luxury retailing, insurance, broadcasting and finally publishing. The company acquired the book publisher Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1991.
Harcourt General, based in Boston, has since sold or spun off most of its assets, including the spinoff of its General Cinemas theaters as GC Companies in 1993 and the spinoff last year of its Neiman Marcus retail chain. GC filed for bankruptcy protection last month, and Harcourt General was saddled with a $100 million liability because it guaranteed some of the movie theater leases, further lowering the company's price.
Some analysts had expected Harcourt to fetch a price as high as $6 billion, especially if it was sold off in pieces. But for tax reasons, Mr. Smith sought to sell the remaining publishing company as a whole, which made a sale more difficult. The bidding cooled further when the two principal contenders, Reed Elsevier and Thomson, decided to collaborate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The breadth and depth of Harcourt's journals fit well," said Crispin Davis, head of Reed Elsevier, which is in a joint deal with Thomson for Harcourt. (Colin Beere/Newscast)
 
Chart: "From Film to Books"
1922 -- Philip Smith, 23, a film salesman, starts movie theater company in Massachusetts.
1951 -- Smith Management opens country's first theater in a suburban shopping center in Framingham, Mass.
1960 -- Merger forms General Drive-In, with 19 indoor and 20 drive-in theaters. It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
1964 -- Renamed General Cinema.
1975 -- Beverage division is the largest independent bottler of Pepsi and Dr Pepper in the United States.
1984 -- Invests $300 million in Carter Hawley Hale Stores.
1987 -- Converts Carter Hawley Hale stake into a majority holding of The Neiman Marcus Group, which goes public.
1989 -- Sells bottling division to PepsiCo for $1.88 billion.
1991 -- Acquires Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, a leading educational publisher, for $1.5 billion.
1993 -- Changes name to Harcourt General and spins off General Cinema to shareholders.
1999 -- Spins off most of its controlling interest in The Neiman Marcus Group to shareholders.
 
(Source: Harcourt General)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (91%); TRI (NYSE) (91%); CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: THOMSON REUTERS CORP (91%); REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC (90%); SCIENTIFIC TECHNICAL & MEDICAL PUBLISHING (68%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PUBLISHING (91%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (89%); WEB BASED TRAINING (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); CURRICULA (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (76%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (76%); APPROVALS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: CRISPIN DAVIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



724 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Campaign Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by B. Drummond Ayres Jr.

 BODY:

THE SENATE
 
SUPPORT FOR GOVERNOR'S WIDOW
She is not on the Missouri ballot for the United States Senate. And she has given no indication that she would serve if appointed. But a campaign to put Jean Carnahan in the Senate is nevertheless well under way, with support groups forming, one rally already held, more planned and e-mail messages that promote her flying in every direction.
Mrs. Carnahan is the widow of Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri, a popular Democrat killed this month in a plane crash while campaigning to unseat Senator John Ashcroft, a Republican. His death came too late in the campaign to put a substitute Democrat on the ballot. Should Mr. Carnahan win, and polls taken in the past few days indicate the race is a tossup, the new governor, Roger Wilson, a Democrat and Mr. Carnahan's lieutenant governor, has promised to appoint Mrs. Carnahan to serve for her husband. 
 Mrs. Carnahan says it is too soon to commit to anything, and Missouri Republicans question the legality of the plan. John W. Fountain (NYT)
 
SUDDENLY, TOSSUPS
New polls indicate that the Senate races in Virginia and Michigan, once one-sided, are now tossups.
In Virginia, a Mason-Dixon survey taken this week found the incumbent Democrat, Senator Charles S. Robb, had closed to within three percentage points of his Republican challenger, former Gov. George Allen. For almost two years, Mr. Allen had enjoyed a comfortable lead in the polls over Mr. Robb. But in recent weeks, Mr. Robb has steadily closed the gap, thanks mainly to gains among women.
In Michigan, an EPIC/MRA poll taken this week found that Representative Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat, had pulled even with the Republican incumbent, Spencer Abraham, after trailing him for months. Two weeks ago, an EPIC/MRA poll found her 10 points behind. She and Senator Abraham together have spent more than $16 million on the contest. (NYT)
 
THE DEMOCRATS
 
GORE AND THE RAP STAR
In Vice President Al Gore's latest appeal to young voters, he sat for an interview with Queen Latifah, a rap singer and syndicated talk-show host whose audience is chiefly between 18 and 24, a lot of them generally switched off by politicians.
In the interview, to be broadcast on Wednesday, Queen Latifah, whose real name is Dana E. Owens, gave Mr. Gore a "pop-culture quiz," asking if he had ever worn leather pants.
"I don't think I have," he said. But he had a leather vest for riding his Harley, he said.
Ever been caught speeding?
"I don't think I ever got caught speeding on my motorcycle," Mr. Gore answered. "Certainly I got caught speeding in my car when I was younger. But that wasn't to say I wasn't speeding sometimes on my motorcycle. I look back on those days and I feel like I'm very lucky to have survived."
Then he added: "Once, on a dare, we went double-dating on my motorcycle." At the time, he went on, he was wearing a tuxedo. Did he get pulled over?
"Actually, there was a blue light," Mr. Gore answered. "And I can't say for sure that they were coming after us, but just on the chance that they were, we cut through an alleyway."
And finally: "On a woman, leather or lace?" Mr. Gore mulled for a moment, then answered: "Lace." Katharine Q. Seelye (NYT)
 
THE INTEREST GROUPS
 
UNION DOLLARS FOR GORE
The political action committee of New York State's largest health-care union sent a $1 million check to the Democratic National Committee this week to bolster the campaign of Vice President Al Gore.
The contribution, by 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Service Union, followed an earlier donation of $1 million to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and a $600,000 donation to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
"We are alarmed about the prospect of having George Bush as the next president and about the impact that will have on the labor movement," said Dennis Rivera, president of 1199, a division of the Service Employees International Union. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
THE ISSUES
 
ASSISTED-SUICIDE VOTE
Residents of Maine vote next month on a ballot initiative that would allow very ill patients of sound mind to ask their doctors for medication to help them die. The latest poll on the Oregon-style proposal, conducted last weekend by Strategic Marketing Services, found the electorate evenly divided, 43.5 percent for, 43.5 percent against and the rest undecided. In mid-September, a poll by the same company found that 67 percent of the state's voters supported the initiative.
States like Michigan, where a similar initiative was defeated in 1998, have seen a similar dynamic as Election Day approached. Some analysts say it may be because people support assisted suicide in general, but become troubled by the details of any particular law. Carey Goldberg (NYT)
 
THE TRAVEL LOG
 
THE NUMBERS
Vice President Al Gore spent yesterday searching for votes in Pennsylvania while Gov. George W. Bush boarded a bus for the second time this week and worked Michigan. The numbers:
Length of official day: Gore, 16 hours; Bush 13 1/2 hours
States visited: Gore, 2; Bush, 3
Official events: Gore, 5; Bush 6
Cities/towns visited: Gore, 5 (Charlestown, W.V.; Pittsburgh, Homestead, Allentown and Wilkes-Barre, Pa.); Bush, 6 (Toledo, Ohio; Kalamazoo, Benton Harbor, Battle Creek and Farmington Hills, Mich., and South Bend, Ind.)
Miles traveled: Gore, 456; Bush, 348
Main message: Gore, the economy; Bush, responsible leadership
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "CAMPAIGN UPDATE -- The Final Sprint
Campaign stops by Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore since the third debate, in St. Louis on Oct. 17
 
Map of United States indicating states visited by Bush and Gore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (85%); SPEED LIMITS (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (70%); RAP MUSIC (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (60%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



725 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Insecurity Once More Casts a Pall in Kosovo

BYLINE: BY CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo, Oct. 27

 BODY:
As the West rushed to embrace Vojislav Kostunica's recent emergence as president of Yugoslavia, Kosovo's Albanians -- suppressed for years by the Serbs until NATO intervened last year -- felt threatened once more.
While the former president, Slobodan Milosevic, was in power, the Albanians were confident of support and understanding from the West -- and even sympathy for their goal of independence. 
 But now they are suspicious about Mr. Kostunica and feel a new urgency to resolve the status of Kosovo, which is administered, for now, by the United Nations. International peacekeeping troops have been protecting the Kosovo people since Yugoslav troops withdrew in June 1999 after 78 days of NATO bombing.
The Albanians' concerns remain despite the momentous change that swept through their neighbor and old enemy, Serbia, just weeks ago, bringing Mr. Kostunica in as the new president and fundamentally changing the political world around Kosovo.
At first, the Albanians here ignored what was going on to the north. Since they remain officially part of Yugoslavia, they could have participated in the Yugoslav election that brought Mr. Kostunica to power. But the Albanians boycotted the election, as they have every election organized by Belgrade during the past 10 years, because, they argue, voting would legitimize a rule by Serbs they do not want.
"We are not joining in with the international euphoria over the events in Belgrade, but I understand the euphoria," said Alush Gashi, a senior member of the largest political party, the Democratic League of Kosovo. He said Mr. Kostunica is someone the Albanians can talk to, "and if he is someone who has not committed any crimes, that's good, but he is a man who has not distanced himself from crimes against humanity."
Mr. Kostunica's rise to power has coincided with the first real elections the Albanians have known since Mr. Milosevic stripped them of autonomy in 1989. The balloting on Saturday will be for local councils, but the campaigning, which the Albanians have embraced enthusiastically, has revolved around global issues -- first and foremost, independence for Kosovo.
This week, Mr. Kostunica acknowledged that crimes were committed by Yugoslav forces in Kosovo and has promised to work on freeing Albanian prisoners from Serbian jails as he tries to forge a relationship with the people of Kosovo. His pledge was welcomed by Dr. Bernard Kouchner, head of the United Nations administration in Kosovo.
"If the Albanians are not saying anything, that means they see it as good," Dr. Kouchner told journalists this week. "Kostunica's comments are good, and I think he will be making more. We will face difficulties, but the difficulties will have become positive."
And Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said during a visit to Kosovo this week that he was confident that Mr. Kostunica would not pursue Mr. Milosevic's tactic of infiltrating the Serb police and military on covert missions to destabilize Kosovo and intimidate the beleaguered Serb communities left here.
But most ordinary Albanians say they see no difference between Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Kostunica.
"I don't believe he is better -- he was also a paramilitary in Kosovo," said Mihrije Preneqi, an electrician, as she left a political rally in Pristina, the capital. She was referring to a photograph that showed Mr. Kostunica holding an automatic rifle during a visit to Kosovo, and which has been widely published here since he won the presidency.
Ms. Preneqi said she supported independence, but also some dialogue. "If the Serbs are democratic, then we see our future as neighbors," she said.
But speeches at the election rallies this week showed that popular feeling is still violently anti-Serb. Hashim Thaci, the former political leader of the Kosovo Liberation Army, which fought Serbian forces for two years, and now leader of the Democratic Party of Kosovo, draws much of his support from young activists and former fighters.
"The killer Serb army under Milosevic is the same army under Kostunica," Mr. Thaci said. "I want you to be sure that every act of Belgrade will be rejected and condemned, and will get the response it deserves from the Albanians and from the democratic world," he said, to enormous cheers.
Yet, when pushed, the Albanians agree that Mr. Kostunica can only be an improvement on Mr. Milosevic, who disenfranchised them and sent his forces against them and their armed rebellion in Kosovo, culminating in the expulsion of more than a million people from their homes during the NATO bombing campaign. Hundreds of thousands were left homeless and thousands were killed.
Qerim Mulaj, 30, a former guerrilla fighter, now unemployed, said he could see Albanian leaders entering into a dialogue with Mr. Kostunica in due course. "If all the Albanian prisoners are released and the fate of the disappeared solved, then they could. It would be normal," he said as he left the rally.
Political leaders are calling for general elections in Kosovo as soon as possible, arguing that this is the only way that they can have viable, elected leaders who can negotiate their future and deal with Serbia, rather than rely on foreigners to do it for them.
"Independence is not your issue, it is not the West's issue," said Ramush Haradinaj, a former commander of the liberation army and now leader of an alliance of parties, the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo.
"We will work inside the rules," he said, "but I do not need to discuss it with anyone. The West is not the one who decides, and it must respect the will and determination of Kosovars."
Mr. Haradinaj makes it clear he will continue the battle for independence if necessary, even if it has moved into the political arena. "Kostunica is good because a democratic Serbia will be better prepared to accept the reality here," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA (95%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA (95%); ALBANIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PEACEKEEPING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BOYCOTTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BERNARD KOUCHNER (54%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



726 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Stifling the Source of the Surplus

BYLINE: By David Baltimore; David Baltimore, president of the California Institute of Technology, won the Nobel Prize in medicine in 1975.

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.

 BODY:
As debate rages this season about how to spend the federal budget surplus, no one is discussing the real forces that generated it and how to keep them healthy. Many Americans understand that our unprecedented economic well-being comes from mining the extraordinary vein of basic knowledge laid down by our research universities over the last few decades.
Why, then, do we hear nothing in the campaign about how the Democrats or the Republicans will ensure new discoveries to keep our prosperity going? 
 When I confront a politician with that question, I am told that these issues are too technical and complex for a campaign. I disagree. The issue is straightforward: We must keep replenishing the vein we are mining because, if it runs out, we will have no more of the ore from which technological innovation is created. We must be concerned about both direct financing for basic research projects and maintaining the health of institutions that educate the people who make innovation happen.
Basic research is often considered to be studies done with no practical goal in mind. It may be very abstract. However, years -- even decades -- after its completion and publication, basic knowledge may suddenly have a great commercial impact. Thus, the health of the American basic science enterprise in the 1950's and 60's generated the huge surge of industrial applications in the 70's, 80's and 90's. We have seen this with the fundamental discoveries in microelectronics, biology, information theory, computer science. These basic sciences generated modern telecommunications, biotechnology, the computer industry and now the Internet.
The cold war fueled basic research funding for four decades, as we feared that the Russians might outstrip us in science, giving them an edge in military technologies. Our investment paid off, not only in the most sophisticated military the world has ever known, but in our prosperity.
Were I a politician, I would forcefully state that the vibrancy of the American economy for our children and grandchildren depends on our investment in basic science today. I would insist that the science budgets of the National Science Foundation, NASA, the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense be strengthened. The only budget keeping up with the opportunities is that of the National Institutes of Health, and I would pledge -- as Al Gore did for cancer research -- that the momentum would be continued.
We spend less than half a percent of the gross domestic product on basic science. We should be able to afford to double that amount. Today, the federal government does not even finance the full cost of the research it supports at universities, as a recent RAND study noted, and this forces universities to use their endowment returns to subsidize the research.
On the education side, the political parties have fallen over themselves championing increased support for kindergarten through 12th grade. I certainly support them. It is higher education, however, that produced the people whose intellectual capital has contributed so decisively to today's prosperity.
We need to remember that people in training -- graduate students and postdoctoral fellows -- carry out the bulk of the research. Thus more money for research means more apprenticeship training opportunities to nurture the development of the next generation of scientists and scientific entrepreneurs. It is a system that is self-renewing as long as the commitment to it is maintained.
I am confident that championing scientific accomplishment and higher education would be a vote-winning strategy for Vice President Gore and Gov. George W. Bush. It would be refreshing to see one or both of them adopt it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); CANCER (72%); ONCOLOGY (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (70%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



727 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VOTERS;
Blacks Stick With Gore Despite Differing Views

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn., Oct. 27

 BODY:
If he were headed to the polls today, Curt Farrison, a real estate broker in the predominantly black neighborhood of South Norwalk, would gladly pull the lever for Al Gore. But Mr. Farrison, whose three children are all grown, said he disagreed with the vice president's opposition to vouchers, which would let poor parents use tax dollars to send their children to private schools.
"Every opportunity to give your children a better life, you take," said Mr. Farrison, who is black. He recalled how nearly 30 years ago he and his wife moved from Norwalk to Danbury so their children could attend better public schools. "That's what the vouchers are," he said. "They are an option. It gives you choice. You can take that voucher and turn that into a decent education for your child." 
 Joseph E. Mann, a Democratic district leader in South Norwalk, is a party loyalist who has never considered voting for George W. Bush. But he disagrees pointedly with Mr. Gore's support for the death penalty. "I happen to not be for it," Mr. Mann said. "I think there are too many problems associated with it, especially for minorities." He added, "I just don't think it's a deterrent and I don't think it's civilized."
In conversations with two dozen black voters in this diverse city of nearly 80,000 people, the death penalty and school vouchers emerged as two issues on which even some of the staunchest Democrats could find reason to disagree with Mr. Gore. And yet, no voters said that a differing view on either of these issues would change their vote -- at least not in the presidential race.
The conversations, with small-business owners and teachers, government employees and social service workers, clergymen and police officers, suggested a Clinton-style compartmentalization of issues and priorities among black middle-class voters here. The voters, mostly Democrats but also some Republicans, said smaller differences could be put aside in favor of larger considerations, especially concerning the economy.
"I think the current administration should go back in, no questions asked," said Harold McCready, 65, a Republican member of Norwalk's City Council and the owner of the Old Post Liquor Store on Cedar Street. "When I put my hand into my right pocket -- that's where I keep my money -- when I feel there are greenbacks there all the time, I don't want that to change. And the stock market has been good to me."
Cassandra Eaton, a private music instructor, said that as a black woman, she might not see eye to eye with Mr. Gore on all issues, but she considered his policies appealing to the middle class. "Right now he is offering more for us in the middle class," she said. "I am looking for someone to identify with. Obviously, the racial thing I can't identify with him. But there is something there, I am hoping. He has that edge for me."
For this reason, Ms. Eaton said she could put aside her differences with Mr. Gore on school vouchers. As a 60-year-old grandmother of two young boys, 7-year-old Eric and 3-year-old Anthony, Ms. Eaton said she would like to see private school available to them. "If I could get them in private school through vouchers, I would," she said. "I would want that option."
The voucher issue is far less crucial in Connecticut, a state that is firmly in the grasp of Mr. Gore and his running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, than it is in Michigan, a swing state. There, a statewide ballot referendum on vouchers has drawn attention to a philosophical disagreement between Mr. Bush, who supports vouchers, and Michigan's Republican governor, John Engler, who opposes them.
Although the stakes are not so high here, the issue is still sensitive enough that not everyone feels comfortable speaking about it. Ms. Eaton said she was hesitant to discuss the issue because it was so contentious. Opponents, including Mr. Gore, argue that vouchers would drain necessary resources from public schools, hinder public school reform and hurt the majority of poor students who would remain in public school.
"It's a very touchy thing," Ms. Eaton said. "Especially when you want the best for everyone. At the same time, when you look at others who can make it on their own, you want the best for your youngsters as well."
Geraldine Jean-Louis, a Haitian immigrant who recently became a citizen, paused in the ShopRite parking lot to say that she, too, saw vouchers as an opportunity to get the best for her child. "My son goes to public school and enjoys it," she said. "But I'd rather have him in a class with 14 or 15 children instead of being in a class with 40 children."
Robert E. Burgess, the director of Norwalk Economic Opportunity Now, a local nonprofit social service organization, said he was more concerned about the economy and Social Security but that he did agree with Mr. Gore on vouchers. "The majority of kids in this country are in public school, and public school will always be needed," he said. "So the voucher will be counterproductive to helping the majority of the children."
Giving school vouchers to people and saying, "You go where you want to go," he said, would take money from the public schools. "There will be no improvement in the public schools," he said.
At age 57, Mr. Farrison, the real estate broker and a Norwalk resident again, is a satisfied man. He has three grown children: a son in the Marines and two college-graduate daughters now embarked on professional careers. Business is steady at the local real estate brokerage that he owns. And if his mind becomes preoccupied these days, it could well be that he is contemplating his 1-year-old grandson or his next game of golf, making him just the kind of happy voter unlikely to throw an incumbent out of office.
Although he parts ways with Mr. Gore on school vouchers, he says he understands Mr. Gore's criticism of them. "It's a Band-Aid," he said. "But Band-Aids stop bleeding and they stop infection one day at a time. The true battle is about making the school systems equal. The quick fix-'ems are vouchers, obviously busing, etc.
"Those are just Band-Aids and any person worth his or her salt recognizes that," Mr. Farrison said, adding that Mr. Gore has the right long-term idea. "He is saying exactly what I am saying. He is saying, 'Let's not use the Band-Aid, let's fix the system.' "
But he added: "In the absence of having the fix in place, let's go with the vouchers. Let's put vouchers on the table and then once we do that, let's put a solid fix on the system. Let's take out the hammer and the nails."
Mr. Farrison said he did agree with the vice president on the death penalty. "How do we make the punishment so horrible that people don't kill?" he asked. "I do strongly believe in an eye for an eye."
One reason that votes in the presidential race may not hinge on vouchers or the death penalty is that education and criminal justice are largely administered at the state or local level. That point was not lost on Mr. Farrison, who said that despite his support for Mr. Gore, he might not vote for other Democrats running in local races. "In my opinion, the best way to vote is issue by issue, candidate by candidate," he said.
Shelley T. Ragsdale, the owner of the Ragsdale Fuel Oil Company, on West Avenue, said that he had sent one son to public school and the other to private school and recognized the benefits of both systems. But he said that tax dollars should not be made available in the form of vouchers to encourage parents to remove children from public schools. He also said he feared that the poor would not really benefit.
"People of color will not flourish in this system and people of non-color will flourish," he said. Vouchers would barely cover tuition, Mr. Ragsdale said, and many poor parents would not be able to afford to transport their children to the private schools located outside their home neighborhoods. "They rely on the bus system," he said. "They don't have the wherewithal."
Also, he said, the poor children "would feel out of place" in the wealthier private schools."
The Rev. Albert D. Tyson, pastor of Bethel A.M.E. Church, said he agreed with Mr. Gore on vouchers and planned to vote for him because he favored the Democrats' economic proposals. Mr. Tyson, who is 73, said that his vote for Mr. Gore would not be deterred by his passionate disagreement with the vice president on the death penalty. After all, Mr. Tyson and other voters noted, Mr. Bush's home state of Texas has carried out more executions than any other state.
Still, Mr. Tyson said he wished that Mr. Gore had a different view. "Once a person's life is taken, you can't give it back to them if you have made a mistake," he said. "And the justice system is not perfect, and that disturbs me."
Despite such disagreements, the voters interviewed said race relations were better now than they were eight years ago and they suggested that credit belonged to President Clinton. "I think in every respect the record is good, much better than anyone else's as far as involving minorities in government," said Mr. Mann, the local district leader. "I think there is no doubt that Clinton has been good for minorities, anywhere you want to look."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cassandra Eaton -- Private music teacher: Al Gore "is offering more for us in the middle class."; Shelley T. Ragsdale -- Owner, Ragsdale Fuel Oil Company: "People of color will not flourish" in a system of school vouchers.; Curt Farrison -- Real estate broker: "Every opportunity to give your children a better life, you take." (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); RACE & RACISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); CITIES (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



728 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2089 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
In Speech, Bush Says It's Time for Leader Who Will Do the People's Business

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech that Gov. George W. Bush delivered at a school in Knoxville, Tenn., on Tuesday as recorded by The New York Times:
I know this is going to be a close election, and one of the reasons I come is not only to ask for your vote but to ask for your help. During the next two weeks -- I know you vote early here in Tennessee. So do we in Texas. Sometimes we vote early and sometimes we vote often. I just want to make sure those folks voting often are for us. But turn out the folks. Don't be afraid to turn to those independent-minded voters or some of those open-minded Democrats, because you know what? Like us, they know we can do better in Washington, D.C. 
 It doesn't have to be that way in Washington where you're pitting one group of people against another, where there's finger pointing and name-calling and bitterness. No, Washington doesn't have to be that way. You see, this country can have a fresh start after a season of cynicism. We can lift this nation's spirit, and we can focus on doing what's right for the people of this country. We can do what's right for America.
There's a lot of talk about the so-called projected surplus. Let me tell you about the surplus. Let me tell you about it. First of all, it is going to exist not because of the ingenuity and the hard work of the federal government. It exists because of the ingenuity and the hard work of the people of America. That's why the surplus exists. And that money -- if you listen to my opponent, he lost some of the lessons he learned here in Tennessee, evidently -- because that money is not the government's money, Mr. Vice President. That money is the people's money. And that is one of the big differences in this campaign, and that's what you've got to tell our fellow independents and Democrats.
This is a man who trusts government, and we trust the people. He trusts the federal government, and I trust the people with your own money to make your own decisions for your family. It's a fundamental difference of opinion, and it's one of the reasons why, when the people go to vote, when we get them out to vote, they're going to come our way on Nov. 7.
Here's what I think we ought to do with the surplus. First I'm going to tell you what we ought not to do with the surplus -- spend it all and more. Listen, I'm running against a man who's going to define the history books about big spending. He's going to be the biggest spender, if he gets elected, in history. He'll be three times bigger than that which President Clinton proposed. His budget proposals, truthfully, are bigger than those of Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis combined. Now that's saying something, folks. That's a man who trusts Washington. It's a man who wants Washington to have the power over our lives. That's not the way Tennessee thinks, and that's not the way America thinks either. So here's what we ought to do.
We ought to take half of that surplus and set it aside for one purpose: Social Security. We need to be able to say to seniors loud and clear, a promise that this country has made will be a promise that this country will keep. Our seniors are going to get their Social Security checks, and we're not going to let the other side scare them. They're running ads that are trying to scare the seniors, and that's old-style politics. Not this time and not this year. This is the year we're going to say to the seniors: You can trust us. We're going to do what we say we're going to do. . . . We need to let younger workers take some of their own money and put it in the private market to get a better rate of return on their investment dollars.
But they don't want you to do that in Washington. Because they want the government making decisions for everybody. See, I trust people. I want you to have your own assets to call your own, assets you can pass on from one generation to the next, assets that are real assets, not i.o.u.'s. And assets that will get a better rate of return on your money than the paltry 2 percent the federal government is getting on your behalf. No, it's time for new thinking in Washington, D.C., to make sure we save Social Security.
There's some important projects. There's some important things we've got to do with some of that surplus. About a quarter of the surplus needs to go for important priorities. One of them is to rebuild our military to keep the peace. I want to tell the moms and dads and grandparents here that Dick Cheney and I will do what it takes to keep the peace. But I want a strong hand. I want a strong hand when it comes to keeping the peace.
Now you've heard the debates about how our military is the strongest in the world. It is. But the role of a leader is to anticipate. The role of a leader is to be looking down the road and when you see warning signals, do something about it. I worry about the captains leaving our ranks. I worry about the fact that a recent survey showed that a lot of personnel in the military are not going to re-up. I worry about our military trying to be too many things to too many people around the world.
Not only are we going to restore morale by paying our women and men in uniform more money, and house them better, and make sure they're better trained and better equipped. You're going to have a commander in chief who respects the men and women in uniform and a commander in chief who in turn earns the respect of the men and women in uniform.
Education will be a priority, but I assure you I don't want to be the federal superintendent of schools. I believe in local control of schools. I believe we ought to trust parents and teachers and principals to make the right decisions. The people who care more about the children in Knoxville, Tenn., are the citizens of Knoxville, Tenn.
My view of compassionate conservatism says any time we find somebody who cannot help themselves, we will. We're a compassionate nation. People should not go without in America. One of the big concerns in our society today is the fact that some of our seniors are having to choose between prescription drugs and food. And that's not right. That's not our vision for America.
So I've got a plan that says we're going to spend the money necessary to modernize and strengthen Medicare. We're going to have a Medicare system that includes prescription drugs for all. We'll give seniors the choices they need, if they want to have a different plan. We're going to have an immediate helping hand for seniors. That means drugs and money for prescription drugs for poor and moderate-income seniors. This is going to require a leader who brings people together, someone who does not use Medicare as a political issue but someone who sees it as an important priority for our nation.
Now I know you've heard the debate and all the numbers and all the language, but one thing is for certain that they cannot escape. In 1992 they went around the country saying 'we're going to do something about Medicare and prescription drugs.' In 1996, if you think about the echoes from the past, they said the same thing. And here we are now four years later, and they're still saying the same thing. Here's our answer, Mr. Vice President. You had your chance. You have not led, and we will.
It's time for new leadership in Washington. It's time to get somebody up there to get the people's business done. It's time to send power out of Washington for our schools, save and strengthen Social Security, do something once and for all on Medicare, do something about the military so we can make the world more peaceful, keep our promises to our veterans. But let me tell you what else we have an opportunity to do. We have an opportunity to, once we fund our priorities, remember whose money the surplus is, and send some of it back to the people who pay the bills.
They've been telling me all along during the campaign -- the pundits -- the pundits have been saying, you know, that people don't want tax relief. The polls say they don't want tax relief. You know what my answer is? I really don't care what the polls say. I'm standing before you because I do what I think is right. And what I think is right, what I think is right, is to hear the voices of those who work hard to make a living.
I want to tell you the facts: people pay more in federal, state and local taxes than they do for food, clothing and housing combined. Now you think about that load on the people who work for a living. The pundits may not think people want tax reform, but I hear they do all across the country. I hear they do all across the country. We're going to use this moment now in American history, seize this moment, to make our tax code more fair and to give people some of their own money back.
The death tax is unfair. It's unfair to Tennessee farmers, it's unfair to small-business people, and we need to get rid of the death tax. The marriage penalty is unfair; what kind of tax code is it that says if you get married, you'll pay more in taxes than if you're single? It's a bad tax. It's a bad tax.
We're going to drop the top rate to 33 percent for two reasons: one, there ought to be a principle involved. The federal government should take no more than a third of anybody's income. But two, I understand how capitalism works. The role of the federal government is not to create wealth but an environment in which entrepreneurs flourish, in which small businesses can grow to become big businesses. Our economy is strong today not because of Al Gore, I might add, our economy is strong today because we're a land of dreamers and doers, but also because of the tax cuts, Ronald Reagan's tax cuts in the 80's.
We need an insurance policy against an economic downturn by giving people some of their own money back, and I want you to remind our friends who haven't made up their minds yet, that people are paying more as a result of failed leadership in Washington. Those gasoline prices are going up. You know why? There's been no energy plan. They're going up and so are the heating bills, the heating oil bills, up in the Northeast. There's no energy plan. Their own energy secretary got caught, if I might use a Texas phrase, sleeping at the switch. They were caught unaware. We're more dependent than ever before. I think Americans ought to be asking, where's all the capital we earned overseas after defending some of our OPEC nation friends? Where are they?
They're pulling 30 million barrels out of what they call the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Sounds like they're using that as the Strategic Political Reserve. They're trying to cover up the fact that they've had a failed energy policy.
No, our people need tax relief. And therefore, we're going to cut the taxes not on a few, but on everybody who pays taxes. We're going to drop the bottom rate from 15 percent to 10 percent and increase the child credit from $500 to $1,000 per child and here's why. I want you to hear why and tell your friends this. This tax code we have today is unfair for people at the bottom end of the economic ladder. If you're a single mother in Tennessee, trying to raise two children and making $22,000 a year, one, you're working the hardest job in this state. That's the toughest job. And two, for every additional dollar she earns above the $22,000, because of this tax code, justified by the agents of the status quo in Washington, D.C., she pays a higher marginal rate on that dollar than someone making $200,000 a year.
In fact, this nation has put a toll booth right square in the middle of the road to the middle class. If you stand on one side of the toll booth, you pay the rates we've been telling you, and the other side, for those struggling to get ahead, for those working their heart out to put food on the table, you pay a higher marginal rate. And that's not right, folks. You're looking at a man who hears the voices of the entrepreneurs, but our plan also addresses the inequities of the system that hurts the hard-working people at the bottom of the economic ladder.
It's time to knock down that toll booth on the road to the middle class. I've heard all the talk about rich people versus poor people. That's class warfare that Mr. Gore likes to put onto people. That's not how you lead. That's not what this nation needs. This nation needs somebody to bring us together. This nation needs a healer, not a divider. This nation needs somebody, somebody, who's going to stop the bickering and fighting and name-calling in Washington, D.C. . . . 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



729 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: ON THE STUMP -- THE SPEECH;
Read My Leadership Skills, Bush Emphasizes in Broadening Campaign Speeches

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Oct. 27

 BODY:
There are times on the campaign trail these days when what Gov. George W. Bush seems to be offering is less a package of proposed legislation than a seminar on leadership.
A leader, he tells crowds, does not pit one group of people against another. To lead, he says, is to stand firm on convictions, wrap one's fingers around even the thorniest problems and take the long view, no matter what the short-term impact. Variations on those words and themes course through almost every one of Mr. Bush's speeches. 
 His vision of Washington looms just as large, but he is not talking about a place on the map. He is assailing what he portrays as misbegotten thinking marked by arrogance, truculence and meddling, and personified in his Democratic opponent, Vice President Al Gore.
"We're a government of the people, by the people, and for the people," Mr. Bush said in Knoxville, Tenn., on Tuesday. "We're not a government of Washington, for Washington and by Washington."
Mr. Bush addresses specific issues, too: tax cuts, Social Security, Medicare, education. But what is most striking about his stump speech in this final, mad dash toward the finish line of the presidential race is the way in which almost every subject he discusses, almost every claim he makes, bolsters a more diffuse argument about character and tone.
His Knoxville speech, as close to a standard set of remarks as any he made in the last week, was a perfect example. When he defined the differences between his plan for Social Security and Mr. Gore's, he moved beyond particulars to the assertion that his approach reflected a willingness to think boldly, differently. He insisted that his approach was also, in a sense, humbler, because it would encourage people to have more power over their futures and discretion over their money.
"But they don't want you to do that in Washington," he said, making the last three syllables sound like dirty ones. "They want the government making decisions for everybody."
When he plugged the need to modernize Medicare, he emphasized the importance -- seemingly regardless of the proposal itself -- of steering the legislative process in a civilized, sensible way. "This is going to require a leader who brings people together," he said, "someone who does not use Medicare as a political issue but someone who sees it as an important priority."
The current iteration of Mr. Bush's stump speech, which has evolved considerably in the 16 months since he began his presidential campaign, provides a perfect window into the fundamental questions that dog his bid for the White House and his chosen strategies for answering them.
How does a candidate beat an opponent who, some polls say, holds positions on issues more closely in line with those of most Americans?
He turns his approach to those issues into proxies for his governing style, which he says would be more principled and less cynical.
"The pundits have been saying, you know, that people don't want tax relief," Mr. Bush told the crowd in Knoxville, defending his tax-cut proposal, which many political analysts consider a liability. "You know what my answer is?" he continued. "I really don't care what the polls say. I'm standing before you because I do what I think is right."
How does a candidate unseat an incumbent administration at a time of extraordinary prosperity? He denies "Washington" credit for it, casting that possibility as an affront to the Americans that the federal government serves.
"Our economy is strong today not because of Al Gore," he said. "Our economy is strong today because we're a land of dreamers and doers."
He also insists that the choice before voters is not between jeopardizing prosperity and continuing it, as Mr. Gore claims, but between a shepherd of that wealth whose leadership they can respect and one whose methods are manipulative.
"I want to remind you of what my opponent said in Los Angeles, California, in his convention speech," Mr. Bush said. "He said to the people out there he is going to make sure the 'right people' get tax relief."
"I want you to think about that for a potential president of the United States," Mr. Bush added, then liberally translated Mr. Gore's remarks. "He said, 'Put me in Washington and I'm going to decide who the right people are.' That's not the way we think. That's not the American way."
And he promises to end partisan nastiness, implicitly making the case that one of his greatest strengths, an often warm and engaging personality, is not merely a social asset but a political one, with the power to drive a path through gridlock.
"It doesn't have to be that way in Washington," he said, "where there's finger pointing and name-calling and bitterness."
"This country can have a fresh start," he added, "after a season of cynicism."
Is he talking about impeachment? Yes, but not by name. That is the sleight of hand in his stump speech, which resurrects bad memories without asking people to relive them.
Mr. Bush's stump speech also reflects his considerable growth as a candidate. In the beginning, he delivered virtually the same remarks, in the same order, with the same intonation, wherever he went, as if clinging to a life line. Now he confidently rearranges the pieces.
Every few days, he sets up a teleprompter to deliver a special address that grafts new language onto existing themes. But once the teleprompter goes away, the fresh bits stay lodged in his memory, to be woven into later comments.
The state of the race is evident in the phase of the speech. A year ago, it was dense with lofty, lovely couplets, as he went about the task of trying to establish eloquent bearings.
Now, policy details frequently eclipse poetic flourishes, and overt appeals for votes take center stage as the moment of decision nears.
Twice he beseeched the crowd in Knoxville not only to head to the polls in large numbers but also to persuade "independent-minded voters or some of those open-minded Democrats" that he was their man.
His speech is a delicate balancing act, clearly intended to reassure the conservative faithful that he is one of them while it signals to moderate voters that he is one of them, too.
So he pitches his tax cut of $1.3 trillion over 10 years, but he dwells only on what it would mean for single mothers making $22,000 a year or families of four making $50,000.
He frames every discussion about education around the conservative buzz phrase "local control," but he also spotlights the need to make sure that less privileged children and minority students are doing better.
One aspect of Mr. Bush's speech has proved timeless, and its stamina underscores how firmly he believes that if the election turns on values and character, victory will be his.
Always, at the close, Mr. Bush envisions his inauguration and the act of putting his "hand on the Bible." He says he will be pledging not only to uphold the laws of the land, but also "to uphold the honor and the integrity of the office to which I have been elected, so help me God."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the airport in Battle Creek, Mich., yesterday, a camera-ready crowd awaited the Republican presidential candidate, Gov. George W. Bush. Mr. Bush worked the rope line before heading for a rally in Kalamazoo, Mich. He and Vice President Al Gore are neck and neck in the state. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



730 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Higher Interest Rates Slowed Economic Growth
The pace of economic activity slowed sharply in the third quarter, the Commerce Department reported, as higher interest rates took their toll on growth.
But in these boom times, even a relatively modest increase in the nation's gross domestic product at a annual rate of 2.7 percent, is still healthy growth, and the numbers suggest that the dip might only be temporary. Government outlays dropped, particularly as census takers left the payroll, and retailers sold stockpiled merchandise. Page A1. 

Hackers in Microsoft Computers
Unidentified intruders had access to Microsoft Corporation computers for about six weeks and were able to view some of the source code -- a programmer's basic instructions -- for a future software product, the company said. Speaking to reporters during a seminar in Stockholm, Steven A. Ballmer, the company's chief executive, said, "It is clear that hackers did see some of our source code." Several people close to the investigation said the company believed that the intruders had taken advantage of vulnerabilities in the computer of an employee working from a remote location, possibly in his or her home. A1.
 
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson says he knows his rulings in the Microsoft antitrust case are controversial, but he has no regrets, even though, as he put it, "virtually everything I did may be vulnerable on appeal." C14.
 
Prudential Said to Plan Some Cuts
Three weeks after a shake-up of its top management, Prudential Securities is preparing to stop trading bonds for institutional clients and to lay off a few hundred traders and other employees, people close to the firm said. C3.
 
Sanyo Replaces Refrigerator Parts
Sanyo Electric, one of Japan's largest home electronics manufacturers, said that it was providing replacement parts for 180,000 refrigerators because the doors might fall off. In its second announcement of a defective product in a week, Sanyo said it had received complaints from 104 people about the refrigerators, which were made between 1995 and 1996. All of the refrigerators were sold in Japan. C2.
 
Dow Soars on Renewed Confidence
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 210.50 points, or 2 percent, to 10,590.62, as a government report showed a gentle slowdown in economic growth, which calmed fears of inflation and interest rate increases. Broader indicators were also higher. The Nasdaq composite index ended with a gain of 6.18 points, to 3,278.36, after moving in and out of positive territory during the day. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 15.14 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,379.58. C3.
 
Jetta and Audi Sales Bolster VW Net
Volkswagen said third-quarter profit rose 50 percent because of the weakness of the euro and strong demand in the United States for Jetta sedans and Audi TT coupes. Net income increased to 984 million marks ($417.3 million) from 657 million marks ($278.7 million) in the period a year earlier. C2.
 
I.B.M. Plans Chip Plant in Shanghai
I.B.M. plans to build a $300 million computer chip packaging plant in Shanghai in expectation of heavy demand in China. It said the new plant, part of a $5 billion global plan to expand its semiconductor business, would make advanced chip packaging, components on which chips are mounted for use in high-technology devices like digital phones and camcorders. The plant is scheduled to begin production in early 2002 with a work force of 1,800. C3.
 
Slowdown in Production in Japan
Industrial production in Japan lost steam in September after reaching record levels the month before. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry said output fell 3.4 percent after a 3.3 percent rise in August. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,590.62 up 210.50
Nasdaq composite -- 3,278.36 up 6.18
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.71% up 0.03
The euro -- $0.8403 up 0.0107
The dollar -- 108.69yen up 0.35
 
Graph tracks Dow Industrials since Jan.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRONICS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); RETAILERS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); CENSUS (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SEDANS (68%); BOND MARKETS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



731 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Yanks Know How to Get The Job Done

BYLINE: By Murray Chass

 BODY:
As close as the Mets came to the Yankees in each game of the World Series, the feeling remains that the teams were really not playing in the same ballpark (and that doesn't mean Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium). The scores indicated two almost evenly matched teams, but the real story was told by the outcomes of the games, not the scores.
If the Mets had scored two runs, the Yankees would have scored three. If the Mets had scored six runs, the Yankees would have scored seven. The ratio of games won by each team seemed about right. If the Mets and the Yankees played a season's worth of postseason games, the Yankees might very well win 70 to 80 percent of them. 
 The difference between the teams that might make a rivalry between pennant winners so one-sided is not necessarily in the personnel, but in approach and attitude and execution.
"What I learned about that franchise this postseason is that winning becomes a habit," Andy MacPhail, the general manager of the Chicago Cubs, said yesterday. "They can deliver the two-out, no-one-on rally that eludes the rest of us and get key hits from a variety of people. They don't rely on any one or two players or pitchers. That's a credit to their staff."
The Yankees staged their season's most significant two-out, no-one-on rally in the ninth inning of Game 5 Thursday night. After Al Leiter struck out Tino Martinez and Paul O'Neill, Jorge Posada walked. Then Scott Brosius and Luis Sojo singled him around the bases with the decisive run.
Officials with many clubs were giving the Yankees credit yesterday for their achievement -- their third consecutive World Series championship and fourth in the last five years. But the line of credit was immediately followed by a "but." Or the comments were reversed with the credit coming second.
"If every club were allowed to spend $100 million in payroll, you would not have the same team winning every year," Jim Bowden, the Cincinnati Reds' general manager, said. "But let's not take away from what the Yankees have accomplished. They deserve the credit where credit is due."
The Yankees continued their conquest of the rest of the major leagues, which only exacerbates the issue of payroll disparity. The Yankees had the highest payroll this year, no matter what method of computation is used, and it was reflected in their play.
As if the payroll wasn't high enough when the season began, $92.5 million, the Yankees imported gobs of talent during the season, turning over 32 percent of their roster and raising the payroll to $112 million.
"Brian did a tremendous job and deserves a lot of recognition for what the entire organization accomplished," MacPhail said, referring to General Manager Brian Cashman. "The trades were a great boost to them."
Without at least some of the acquisitions, the Yankees would very likely have fallen short of their goal. "Look at the moves they made," Dave Dombrowski, the Florida Marlins' general manager, said, then cited David Justice and Glenallen Hill as two players whose hitting fueled the Yankees. "They have good baseball people making good decisions."
But while crediting the moves the Yankees made, the officials point out that few teams could have made them economically. The Oakland Athletics, for example, might have won that fifth game of their division series with the Yankees had they been able to acquire a front-line pitcher in July. But the Athletics have a $32 million payroll and were not substantially adding to it.
MacPhail said baseball needs a system that would allow "more teams to be more competitive on a more frequent basis."
Bowden cited poor television ratings and said people grow tired of seeing the same team win year after year. "They'd like to see someone who has a chance," he said. "But basically you know in spring training who's going to be there."
Asked what impact another Yankees World Series triumph makes on baseball, Bowden said: "It continues to have an impact on the fact that higher payrolls have a much better chance of winning the World Series. But the Yankees know how to spend the money and put championship clubs on the field. A lot of teams, like the Dodgers, have money to spend, but the Yankees know how to spend the money, how to put good teams together, not just good players."
The Yankees' challenge, just as it has been the past two seasons, will be to sustain their level of play next season by continuing to spend wisely on good ingredients for the team. They know their 2000 team was not as good as the previous two teams and will seek to make some significant changes. What effect those changes will have on their payroll will be one of the off-season sports to follow.
MacPhail, who has experienced World Series success with the Minnesota Twins but has never had the Yankees' kind of money to work with, said he believed the Yankees would find it difficult to keep winning the way they have the past few years.
"As well as they have been operated and how many resources they have, they'll go though a brief down cycle," he said. "Such is the nature of the game."
An executive of another club noted that the Yankees used many of their better minor-league prospects for their in-season trades this year and might not have many left to use in future trades.
"Now they may have to do it totally with money," he said.
George Steinbrenner has never been shy of using that method, even though he may have a payroll limit. If he does, on the other hand, no one has discovered it.
Bowden was asked if he ever fantasizes about having a $100 million payroll.
"Of course," he said. "I'm a general manager." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (52%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); OHIO, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); 

PERSON: ANDY MACPHAIL (65%); JIM BOWDEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



732 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Offers and Seeks Assurance in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Oct. 27

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore returned to Pennsylvania today to promote his economic plan for new high-tech jobs, shore up support among traditional Democrats and convince undecided voters that he would assure a prosperous future.
"When you encounter an undecided voter, tell them the facts but then give them the passion in your hearts," Mr. Gore pleaded at a rally here at Carnegie Mellon University. "Give me your help and give me your votes and give me your heart so I can fight for you, and I'll fight for your future." 
 Faced with polls that show his lead in Pennsylvania narrowing, Mr. Gore spent much of the day reiterating parts of his economic plan, pledging to eliminate the national debt, target tax cuts to certain middle-class voters and provide tax deductions for college tuition.
Here and during a morning rally in West Virginia, Mr. Gore also cast himself as a friend of coal miners, lambasted the campaign of Gov. George W. Bush for television commercials that Gore aides said went over the line, and relied on leaders of the steelworkers union and the mine workers union to help promote his candidacy.
And as he traveled through the industrial heart of the old economy, Mr. Gore spent a significant part of his day talking about the new one.
"I have a simple approach to the Internet economy," he said at the Carnegie Library in Munhall. "Government should keep its hands off. No burdensome government regulations. No new tariffs on Internet transmissions, and a moratorium on taxes on the Internet. The Internet economy is like the goose that's laying silicon eggs. Let's make sure it stays healthy and well-fed."
Mr. Gore said his approach to the economy could add 10 million high-tech jobs over the next decade. He said that over the next five years he wanted to double the federal government's spending on research in information technology, and over the next seven years double the amount spent on medical research.
But all this technology and the new jobs will go to waste, he warned, if people are not educated, and he reiterated his desire to "make education our No. 1 priority."
Mr. Gore's schedule is being stapled together on a moment-by-moment basis. He is campaigning in places where he did not expect to have to compete at this stage. On Saturday, after a morning speech in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., he travels to Washington to watch his son's football game, then is off to Minneapolis and Detroit. On Sunday he plans a bus trip across Michigan, and on Monday a bus trip across Wisconsin.
Tuesday will see Mr. Gore in California, the most important state and one where Mr. Gore's once commanding lead has also thinned somewhat. He is to tape an appearance for the "Tonight" show with Jay Leno. Mr. Bush is appearing on the Leno show the night before. Mr. Gore is also planning a rally in Los Angeles, and he is expected to visit Oregon for the second time in 10 days.
Chris Lehane, Mr. Gore's spokesman, said that the trip to California was "primarily an opportunity to do the Leno program, which is a great way to speak to a large number of people. Leno and Letterman, quite literally, have become the town squares of the campaign."
Mr. Gore's schedule today reflected the renewed urgency that his campaign detects in Pennsylvania and in the Democratic bastion of West Virginia, where coal companies are worried that Mr. Gore's environmental concerns could lead to overregulation of the coal industry.
Asked about the support for Mr. Gore in Pennsylvania, Terry Madonna, a political analyst at Millersville University, said the vice president was simply losing the personality contest.
"There is no one big issue for people to focus on, so they have the luxury of looking at the personalities of these candidates," he said. "There are a substantial number of voters in this state, even Democrats, who don't like Gore. It's the only thing that really explains what happened to his campaign."
Mr. Madonna said that Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush were both moving gingerly around two big issues here, abortion and gun control, and how they affect two important groups in this state -- Republican women in the suburbs who favor abortion rights and white Democratic men in the western part of the state who favor gun rights.
"Gore's position on abortion helps him in the suburbs, but on gun control, he gets hurt by blue-collar, pro-union, white men in the $25,000-to-$60,000 income bracket, the big, white, Catholic, working-class majority." Mr. Madonna said. "Bush can emphasize his anti-gun control, but that hurts him in the suburbs."
The vice president began the day with a rally in West Virginia in front of the Capitol in Charleston, where he practically declared himself an Appalachian.
"You want somebody who will fight on behalf of the widows of miners," he said, pronouncing "widows" as "widduhs," accentuating his Southernness as he sometimes does when he is campaigning below the Mason-Dixon line.
"You want somebody who understands coming from part of Appalachia," Mr. Gore said. "My home in Tennessee is on the edge of Appalachia and my Congressional district that I started representing 24 years ago includes a big part of the district that is in Appalachia, with coal miners. I have spent many a Saturday night in a small courthouse filling out forms related to black lung."
Mr. Gore and others noted that Dick Cheney, Mr. Bush's running mate and a former member of Congress, voted 18 times against increasing federal benefits for victims of black-lung disease.
The vice president also said essentially that the Bush campaign was distorting his positions in television commercials because it was in the grip of special interests.
"The other side won't say to you plainly that they're in it to fight for the special interests," Mr. Gore said. "Of course not. They fuzz it up, like the math. They will try to use all of the special-interest contributions to put misleading advertisements on the TV screen every few minutes to try to make you think that up is down and black is white and outside is inside."
In West Virginia Mr. Gore was joined by Cecil Roberts, national president of the United Mine Workers, who said the coal operators were for Mr. Bush while the coal miners were for Mr. Gore. He was also joined by Richard Trumka, secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and former president of the mine workers union. Mr. Trumka made a plea for Mr. Gore, and concluded by yelling, "We know that Nov. 7 is the day that we take back the country!"
Mr. Gore was introduced by Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia, who also vouched for Mr. Gore's devotion to coal. "When Al Gore says that West Virginia is blessed by an abundance of coal," Mr. Rockefeller said, "he knows the importance of coal, and he knows the importance of that to our future, doing it responsibly but doing it, mining it."
In a final plea, Mr. Rockefeller said of Mr. Gore: "He understands us. He is us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore arriving at a campaign rally yesterday at the Capitol in Charleston, W.Va. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); TAX LAW (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); MINES & MINING (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); TUITION FEES (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); COAL MINING (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (65%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (64%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RICK PERRY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



733 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
4 Die in Mideast Clashes On Arab 'Day of Rage'
Israeli soldiers fatally shot four Palestinians as violence flared across the West Bank and Gaza Strip after several days of relative calm. Several Arab organizations had declared it a "day of rage." The casualties brought the death toll in the month of protests to at least 137, with all but 8 being Arabs. A3
 
AIDS and Rural China
Doctors familiar with rural parts of Henan Province say small towns there are experiencing an AIDS epidemic. But Chinese officials deny there is AIDS in Henan. The local news media and government health workers are barred from discussing the issue, and outside researchers are blocked from studying it. A1 

Talks in Ivory Coast
The new president, Laurent Gbagbo, and his opponents held meetings, suggesting a truce in the political crisis a day after tensions erupted in deadly clashes in the port city of Abidjan. A3
 
Diamond Shipments Resume
Industry executives and traders said Sierra Leone had resumed exporting diamonds, accompanied by certificates of origin, under a United Nations plan to stamp out a $700 million-a-year trade in illicit diamonds that has fueled conflicts in Angola, Congo and Sierra Leone. A7
 
Arrests in 1985 Jet Bombing
Canadian authorities arrested and charged two Vancouver-area men in the deaths of 329 people aboard an Air-India flight that blew up near Ireland 15 years ago. The downing is considered to have been the deadliest act of sabotage in aviation history. A7
 
Taiwan Nuclear Plant Dispute
President Chen Shui-bian halted construction of a nuclear plant that had been championed by the previous, Nationalist government and had come to symbolize the wide gulf between the Nationalists and the new president. Mr. Chen's decision enraged the Nationalist Party. A4
 
World Briefing A7
 
NATIONAL A8-13, 16
 
As Race Nears Final Phase, Charges of Mudslinging Fly
The Gore and Bush campaigns accused each other of using dirty advertising techniques to try to win the election, including inflammatory telephone calls to voters and incendiary television spots. A1
 
Republicans in Washington, Oregon and Wisconsin prepared to broadcast a television commercial featuring Ralph Nader criticizing Vice President Al Gore in a recent speech. Campaigning in Iowa last night, Mr. Nader assailed Mr. Gore as being "unbelievably subservient" to corporations. A13
 
Clinton Being Kept in Check
The Gore campaign has told President Clinton to steer clear of closely contested states like Michigan and Pennsylvania to avoid alienating the swing voters who will play a crucial role in choosing his successor, Democratic officials said. A1
 
Mr. Gore returned to Pennsylvania to promote his economic plan, to shore up support among traditional Democrats and to convince undecided voters that his election would assure a prosperous future. Recent polls show his lead narrowing over Gov. George W. Bush in Pennsylvania. A11
 
Bush Picking Words Carefully
Gov. George W. Bush continued a barnstorming tour through Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan, often sounding like a Democrat as he conveyed conservative ideas without using conservative buzzwords that might turn off the centrist Democrats and independent voters he needs to win. A11
 
Mr. Bush's energy policy contains a proposal nearly identical to one of Vice President Al Gore's that Mr. Bush has ridiculed -- tax credits for homeowners who install solar power panels. A10
 
Senate Passes Spending Bill
The Senate approved a $37.7 billion spending bill for the Commerce, Justice and State Departments and the federal courts. President Clinton has said he will veto it because its lacks a broad amnesty for certain illegal immigrants. A8
 
Religion Journal A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
A Raucous Last Debate In New York Senate Race
Representative Rick A. Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton engaged in a quarrelsome hour of bickering and badgering as they attacked each other's ethics, commitment to Israel and proposals for ways to improve the nation's education system. A1
 
The New York Republican State Committee is conducting a telephone campaign attacking Mrs. Clinton's record on issues of importance to Jewish voters. One recipient of a call described it as push-polling -- a technique disavowed by reputable pollsters in which a caller claims to be doing a survey but asks loaded questions. Republican officials said they did not engage in push-polling. B1
 
Giuliani's War Chest
A strategist for Mayor Giuliani's disbanded Senate campaign said it would transfer "hundreds of thousands of dollars" to committees for state Republican candidates. But Mr. Giuliani still has about $3.5 million in the bank. B6
 
Nassau Fiscal Plan Refused
The county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, rejected the Legislature's four-year fiscal rescue plan, saying he could not accept its 15.4 percent property tax rise next year, but he would try for a compromise. B1
 
EDUCATION
 
Scientist Sought for School
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy has blocked William J. Stark, a veteran social studies teacher and administrator, from heading the Bronx High School of Science. Mr. Levy, a graduate of the school, was said to be seeking someone on the order of a Nobel Prize-winning scientist. B1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B11-20
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
No Thanks, Mets Say
The Mets declined the mayor's invitation to join the parade on Monday celebrating the Yankees' victory over them in the Subway Series. D4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Economy Slowed in Summer
The pace of economic activity slowed sharply in the summer quarter, the Commerce Department reported, as higher interest rates took their toll on growth. But the latest numbers suggested that the dip might be temporary. A1
 
Hackers Breach Microsoft
Unidentified intruders had access to Microsoft computers for about six weeks and were able to view some of the source code -- a programmer's basic instructions -- for a future software product, the company said. The culprits did not view or steal the source code for Windows and Office software, officials said. A1
 
Bargain Price for Publisher
Reed Elsevier and the Thomson Corporation are buying Harcourt General for $4.4 billion in cash and the assumption of $1.2 billion of debt, a lower-than-expected price for one of the largest acquisitions in publishing. C1
 
Shareholders Grip Gazprom
Shareholders in the world's biggest natural gas company voted in Moscow to tighten control over management. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: A sharper warning on warming; the Subway Series ride; unfinished business in Ivory Coast; unfair car loans.
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B19
TV Listings B20
Crossword B18
Weather D10
Public Lives A8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); CANADA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (72%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (70%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); CANADA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); HENAN, CHINA (72%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (70%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (85%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); AIDS & HIV (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EPIDEMICS (71%); ARRESTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



734 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: How a Mighty Power Was Humbled by a Little Skiff

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: ADEN, Yemen, Oct. 27

 BODY:
It is called a houri, Arabic for a small workaday boat with an outboard motor that can be purchased for as little as $2,000 in almost any Yemeni port. But after what occurred here this month, the houri may never look the same again, at least to those who grieve for the 17 American sailors killed in the suicide bombing attack on the destroyer Cole.
The houri is a low broad-beamed fishing boat, 15 to 25 feet long, made of white fiberglass, with wood seats and an outboard motor. Some have high prows, and others broad flat ones. According to Yemeni investigators, a houri, or a craft much like it, was used in the Cole attack. The investigators cite shards of fiberglass and wood found on the Cole and accounts by sailors on watch on the destroyer at the time of the attack. 
 Houris are everywhere on the 1,500-mile coastline of Yemen. They are so numerous in the main fishing port at Sirah Island, across the Aden Peninsula from where the Cole has lain listing since the blast, that visitors can arrange to buy one in five minutes, with no questions about the buyer's identity or purpose.
Along the shore, fishermen mix expressions of sorrow for the American sailors with an air of inhibition. The reluctance to discuss the bombing is partly because Yemeni investigators have been in the area asking about the boat in the attack.
But there was also something else widely found in Aden since the bombing -- a halting, half-expressed sense of astonishment, sometimes of satisfaction and even pleasure, that a mighty power, the United States, should have had its Navy humbled by two Arab men in a motorized skiff like a houri.
In Washington, the question is how the United States, with its formidable power and worldwide responsibilities, can increase its chances of foiling attacks like the one on the Cole.
But a visit to Sirah and what it suggested about the ease with which the Cole bombers might have been able to take one of the first steps in their plan -- buying the boat -- underscored just how difficult finding answers would be. Among the fishermen, there were edges, too, of the mixed feelings found elsewhere in Aden.
"You have big boats, and look, they are nothing!" a 17-year-old who gave his name as Mohsen said as he looked out from Aden's main harbor-front at the Cole's hull.
Remarks like that one, from old and young, from men calloused from lifetimes spent stevedoring to unemployed youngsters playing at open-air pool tables, reflect a perception of something frequently debated in war colleges in the United States.
A cause of sneaking pride in the developing world as much as it is a source of anguish in the West, it is called "asymmetrical warfare," or simply the potential of small ideologically impassioned groups to surprise and overwhelm an enemy with far greater technology and firepower.
It is an ancient concept, tracing its origins as far back as the Old Testament account of David's killing Goliath. Long before the Cole, the principle had forced its way back into the forefront of concern among American security and intelligence specialists after a decade of terrorist bombings of American targets that have caused widespread death and destruction.
Sirah, overlooked by an ancient Arab fort, teems with lithe quick-eyed fishermen with boot-brush mustaches who go to sea in cotton skirts called futas, the villager's everyday dress. At dawn and dusk, they shuttle from their boats to a market, clutching the day's catch of tuna and snapper, as well as rarer species found in the tropical waters between Aden and the Horn of Africa.
After haggling with fish traders, the boatmen settle down, cross-legged, for sugary tea and gossip at Al Sayaad, a fishermen's cafe.
For a visitor at Sirah, a tentative deal to buy a 25-foot houri along with a 75-horsepower outboard was completed in the time needed to drink a single cup of tea. After hasty negotiations, the price was set at 925,000 rials, or $5,150. The seller, Muhammad Awad, seemed unconcerned about the buyer's identity or purpose.
"It'll be no problem," he said. "You want the boat, you have it. You can be fishing in an hour."
Not everything in the Cole attack can have been so simple. American officials here have said the attackers were well financed, with patience to prepare the bombing over weeks or months and enough help to rent or buy at least five safe houses, a four-wheel-drive vehicle and a boat trailer and mobile telephones.
Building the bomb was not child's play, either. American officials have said it was a highly sophisticated "shaped charge," housed in a heavy steel that directed the blast with sufficient power to penetrate the Cole's half-inch reinforced steel hull, designed to withstand a force of 50,000 pounds a square inch, according to the Navy.
President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen has said "specialized American agencies" had told him that the explosive, described by Yemeni officials as C4, was legally available only in the United States and Israel, as well as one Arab country and one "Islamic country," neither of which Mr. Saleh named.
When it came to installing the bomb in the boat, a carpenter and a welder from Aden are among at least 60 people reportedly suspected in the investigation. The welder, working at a safe house, is widely believed to have helped fashion the covering needed to direct the explosive power. The carpenter is said to have confessed to building wood housing, possibly a false floor, to conceal the bomb. If the boat was a houri, that would not have posed major problems.
Houris, though small, have a relatively deep draft, capable of carrying more than a ton and a half of fish, tackle and spare fuel beneath the slatted seats, according to the boat chandler on Sirah. Initial accounts by American officials put the quantity of explosives used against the Cole at the equivalent of 400 to 700 pounds of TNT. Subsequent accounts have suggested that the bomb might have been far larger.
Mr. Saleh's contention has been that the entire enterprise had to have been carried out by terrorists with bases outside Yemen, men whom he described as "Arab Afghans," meaning veterans of the Muslim guerrilla struggle in the 1980's that drove Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
As the Federal Bureau of Investigation completed its examination today of the Cole and shore sites possibly used by the bombers and began sending home some agents, American officials here and in Washington continued to say that they were not yet certain that the prime suspect in the case was Osama bin Laden, son of a billionaire Saudi Arabian construction magnate, who is accused of inspiring and directing a worldwide "holy war" against the United States. But the officials remained cautious, saying proof had yet to be found.
But after Mr. Saleh's statement, there has been speculation that the F.B.I. might be closer to identifying the culprits than it has announced.
Meanwhile, among the fishermen of Sirah, the thought of what happened to the sailors on the Cole, and to the billion-dollar American ship packed with 21st-century technology, has a sobering resonance.
"Most of our talk here is fish talk," said Nasir Sabaa, 58, a fish trader. "But we think of the men who died, too, and we are very sorry. It is bad for America. But it is bad for Yemen, too, because the terrorists who want to destroy you want to destroy Yemen, as well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Small fishing boats called houris at Sirah Island, across the peninsula from where a similar boat was used in the attack on the destroyer Cole. The broad-beamed boats are used everywhere on the 1,500-mile coast. (Bashraheel H. Bashraheel/Al Ayyam); The hole blown in the destroyer Cole, in an undated photograph distributed yesterday by the National Security News Service, a group in Washington that is often critical of the Pentagon. The explosion from a suicide attack two weeks ago in Yemen killed 17 American sailors and wounded 39. (National Security News Service)
 
Map of Yemen showing location of Sirah Island: Houris are so plentiful at Sirah Island that buying one is easy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); YEMEN (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); YEMEN (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



735 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 4490 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From the 3rd and Last Debate Between Clinton and Lazio

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the debate yesterday between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Gabe Pressman of WNBC-TV in New York:
MR. PRESSMAN -- . . . We live in an age of polls and focus groups. And many people have the impression that candidates are programmed to respond to issues according to what their advisers believe the voters want. Can you give me one example where you have taken an unpopular course despite what your advisers say because you thought it was right? 
 MR. LAZIO -- Sure. Absolutely. I've done that many times, Gabe. In Congress, supporting Nafta and the assault weapons ban after receiving thousands and thousands of calls from people who wanted me to go in a different direction, because I felt it was the right thing to do. I think it's very important to stand up for your beliefs. Even in this race, I know there are a lot of people who would like to see casino gambling. In one of our former debates, I expressed my personal opposition to casino gambling although I believe in the end it's a state decision. So I think there are many, many times when I have demonstrated independence on a whole range of issues. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Mrs. Clinton . . . what about you?
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, I'll give you two, Gabe. You know, back in 1983 -- when I was probably the first person in the country who said that we should test teachers -- that was extremely unpopular, and it caused quite an uproar. But it was the right thing to do, and I still believe today that we should be testing new teachers and raising standards for our teachers. And then in 1995, when I went to China to speak on behalf of women's rights, there were many people, inside and outside our own government, people literally around the world, who said I shouldn't go, that I shouldn't make a speech, that I shouldn't criticize the Chinese government. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Do you think that there's a feeling abroad, a feeling among the people of America, many of them, that there's a lot of pandering going on, that there's kind of weather vane changes in positions?
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, I think that in this presidential year there are very big differences between the candidates, just as there are in my race. Sometimes those differences may not be as clearly stated or defined as I think they would be in the White House or in the Congress. But for me, looking at this election, I'm struck by what different views my opponent and I have, what different views the two presidential candidates that we support have. Everything from how we would use the surplus and protect Social Security and Medicare to education ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- That's not my question. My question is, is there a kind of perception that candidates are weather vanes? That they change according to the polls?
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, there may be. I don't know. I'm so focused on what I'm trying to do that I'm mostly paying attention to my own race and what I believe.
MR. PRESSMAN -- And you?
MR. LAZIO -- Yeah, I believe there is. I think that's why there's a lot of cynicism among young people. They think that people -- and I think this White House in particular has been known for its extensive use of polling and focus groups and survey data to make decisions. And I think the American people want someone to lead. They want people to lead. For example, I think it was important when the United Nations Security Council voted to condemn Israel for the use of force, which I think was an abomination. I think it was wrong for America to sit on the sidelines. It didn't take me a day to put my finger up in the wind and decide which way public opinion was going. It took me only a couple hours to issue a statement expressing strong condemnation ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- You don't use pollsters at all?
MR. LAZIO -- Oh, of course. I mean, of course every candidate, I think, uses pollsters. The question is whether you determine your positions based on polling. And clearly that's not the case. I just wanted to go back to what Mrs. Clinton said before because I think it's important -- on the educational issue. Mrs. Clinton said that she was for teacher testing. Well, but only for new teachers. And what type of testing? In Arkansas, Mrs. Clinton, when you had responsibility for education, the student performance when you left was at the bottom of the barrel. Spending was up. Taxes were up. Student performance at the bottom of the barrel. And out of the governor, now president's own mouth, he said: "Well, we had to adjust the test. We had to dumb down the tests so that teachers could pass." That was a failure. And I think right now I'm for teacher competency exam -- examinations for teachers whether they're new teachers, but more importantly teachers that have been in the system for some time. I don't understand why you would not want to have examinations for teachers that were already in the system that are perhaps failing our children.
MR. PRESSMAN -- Let me ask a teachers type question of you, Mrs. Clinton. About this history in Arkansas, true or false?
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, it's false, Gabe. And you know, the work that was done in Arkansas received numerous awards and praise, because we really started something that I'm very proud of. And test scores went up in third grade and sixth grade. High school graduation went up. The work that was done was done against great odds. It obviously was then a very poor state. But what's important is what we're going to do in the future. I'm taking the experience that I had where we did test all teachers. And a lot of changes have happened. I've been involved in this now for 17 years, working on behalf of education reform. And I think we know what works. We know that getting classroom size down works. That's why I'm for adding 100,000 teachers to the classroom. We know that modernizing and better equipping our schools works. And we know that high standards works. . . . But what's important is to stay committed to the public school system, not siphon off money, as my opponent would, with vouchers . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- We'll get to vouchers. But . . . is it true what he says -- that you're for testing new teachers but not teachers who are already in the system?
MRS. CLINTON -- That's right. And that's what the New York law is. You know, I agree that we should be testing new teachers. I believe that we ought to have pay for performance where we evaluate teachers. I think we ought to streamline the due process standards so that teachers that don't measure up would no longer be in the classroom. And I have a long record of achievement and advocacy on behalf of improving education . . . .
MR. LAZIO -- See, I have a very different perspective. I have a very different perspective on your record in Arkansas. And I would just urge the voters not to rely on what I'm saying or perhaps even what Mrs. Clinton is saying, with all due respect. But to look it up with their computers, do some research. Because in almost the entire range of student performance . . . there was a dramatic reduction in achievement as a result of ----
MRS. CLINTON -- You know, Gabe, I'm not -- I'm not here to defend Arkansas. I'm here to run for the Senate to represent New York.
MR. LAZIO -- Could -- could I just try to finish my point. Gabe, could I finish my point now?
MRS. CLINTON -- I take great, great offense at his misinterpreting and mischaracterizing what went on.
MR. LAZIO -- Could I finish my point?
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K. You finish your point.
MR. LAZIO -- I realize that you don't want to talk about Arkansas because that experience was a disaster for Arkansas.
MRS. CLINTON -- I'm happy to talk about it if that's what you want to spend your time talking about, Mr. Lazio.
MR. LAZIO -- But what's important ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- Well, let's ----
MR. LAZIO -- Because that's your record, Mrs. Clinton. And with all due respect, you can't run away from your record.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, we have -- we will have posted on the Web site the facts for anyone who's interested . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- . . . There is a difference on the question of teacher testing. We've established that. What about on vouchers?
MR. LAZIO -- Sure. Well, but could I say also it confounds me, actually, why you would say to a new teacher that just came out of school and has learned, hopefully, the most current up-to-date methodology for teaching, and they're accustomed to using computers as teaching tools in the classroom -- why you would say it's O.K. for them but it's not O.K. for somebody that's been out there and teaching for 15 years and may have lost touch with their ability to use the latest techniques. And I think it's because in the end I'm not trapped by the status quo. I'm not trapped by the student -- by the teachers' unions, which I think Mrs. Clinton is. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Are you trapped by the teachers unions, as he says?
MRS. CLINTON -- No. In fact I'm very much in line with what I think will work and what experts in the field think. You know, I'm a lawyer. I had to take a bar exam. I think Mr. Lazio's a lawyer. He took a bar exam and he wasn't tested every five years. I happen to think teachers are professionals and should be treated as professionals. That's why I believe that we should test teachers in the beginning to make sure that when they got their teaching degree, when they got their B.A. from whatever school they graduated from, they're qualified. And then I believe we should have continuing legal education . . .
MR. LAZIO -- Can I try to make a couple points here, because I think there's a major difference between Mrs. Clinton and myself on education? . . .
The truth is . . . that I believe in making changes to put our children first. Mrs. Clinton believes in making sure that decision making on education stays in Washington. I want teachers and parents to make decisions about their education.
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K., you have a chance for a rebuttal here, Mrs. Clinton.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, thank you, Gabe. I mean, you don't know where to start with Mr. Lazio. He does go on.
But the fact is that when I started back in 1983 and proposed teacher testing, I knew that it needed to be done in that particular circumstance. But we've done a lot to improve standards. But I do want to test new teachers and I do want continuing education and professional advancement and development for our teachers. And I do support pay for performance and I do support adding qualified teachers to the classroom.
Where we part company is that he doesn't support, for example, the 100,000 teachers in the classroom in Congress. And he has not gone along with the bipartisan plan to build and repair our schools so that we actually can have those lower classroom sizes. And he supports vouchers, which I oppose.
So I think that any fair reading of the record would show that we do have significant differences.
MR. PRESSMAN -- . . . On the vouchers thing.
MR. LAZIO -- Can I -- out of fairness I think it's important. Because Mrs. Clinton has repeated these things several times, both in her commercials, which The Daily News has called her on and called her advertising absolutely false, and now I want a chance to be able to rebut that.
Mrs. Clinton, you well know by now, because I know you're a smart woman, that I have voted twice to reduce class size, twice for billions to help us recruit new teachers. I have been a co-sponsor of bipartisan legislation for school construction. You know that.
What's important here is that we understand the difference between the two candidates. Mrs. Clinton believes that all the decisions should be made in Washington, that we should force categorical programs. I understand that communities should be making those decisions on a community-by-community basis. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K. Let me blow the whistle here on the education issue.
Some headlines from a selection of press releases and commercials by both campaigns: "Hillary Clinton plays politics with women's health again." "The latest distortions from the Clinton campaign."
And from your side: "Lazio points fingers, plays politics instead of voting for a resolution condemning Palestinian violence." "Lazio soft-money hypocrisy."
You would think from all these things that I read . . . that you dislike each other. Is that true?
MR. LAZIO -- Well, I think that the difference is here, it's not a matter of personal dislike, I think it's a matter for, on our side, to point at the differences between candidates and the philosophy between two candidates.
I think, for example, it's important to point out on a number of different issues that there's a major difference. . . .
MRS. CLINTON -- This is what's called a filibuster, Gabe.
MR. PRESSMAN -- Yeah, let me ask you about the emotional content here. Do you dislike him?
MRS. CLINTON -- No. I think that I have no personal animus at all toward Mr. Lazio. He seems like a very, you know, nice person. I just have a great deal of ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- Well, name three things that you like about him. And you name three things you like about her.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, it seems like he has a very nice family. And that he, you know, has worked very hard. And that, you know, he's an attractive young man.
MR. LAZIO -- Well, I think you're an attractive woman. And I think you've got a very nice family. I'm sure you're a very good mother as well.
MRS. CLINTON -- Thank you very much. But that's not what this election's about. And what it is about are the very significant differences between us on everything like education and health care and the economy and the environment and guns and choice and Social Security and the budget surplus. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Let's talk about some of these issues. In recent weeks, scores of people have been killed in the Middle East. Palestinian leaders have blamed Israel and vice versa. Israeli Prime Minister Barak made far-reaching concessions, in his view, to the Palestinians. But in view of what's happened, do you think there should be a Palestinian state now?
MRS. CLINTON -- Only as part of a comprehensive peace agreement. That's always been my position. That if there were a comprehensive peace agreement that guaranteed Israel's safety and security and the parties agreed at the negotiating table.
But a unilateral declaration is absolutely unacceptable and it would mean the end of any U.S. aid.
MR. PRESSMAN -- What about you?
MR. LAZIO -- Well, I guess that's a change of heart for Mrs. Clinton, because back in 1998 you called for a Palestinian state. You undercut the Israeli negotiating position. And the administration had to rush in to try and distance themselves from you.
The problem is . . . that many people around the world and the Palestinian Authority looks at you and your comments and your proximity to the White House and your role in the White House. And when you call for a Palestinian state, when you accept contributions from people that support Hamas, when you invite them to the White House and they're your guests, you send a message out to the world and to the Palestinian Authority that encourages violence to be used as a tool to achieve political ends.
MR. PRESSMAN -- Wait a minute. Didn't your presidential candidate, George W. Bush, also accept contributions?
MR. LAZIO -- That's absolutely -- well the difference is -- it's absolutely wrong for all, it's absolutely wrong for all. The difference, though, on top of receiving the contributions and attending the fund-raiser and being honored by a group, the leader of which says it is perfectly acceptable to use murder and violence as a tool to achieve political ends, is that people who support the Hamas group, which is a terrorist group, have been invited and courted at the White House, which I think is wrong. And I think it's one reason why ----
MRS. CLINTON -- Am I going to get a chance? I'm happy to sit here and let him go on if that's how we want to spend the hour.
MR. LAZIO -- But Mrs. Clinton, frankly, that's your record.
MR. PRESSMAN -- No. She has a right to answer ----
MRS. CLINTON -- But I think it's appropriate, Gabe -- after he's done so many, made so many inaccurate statements ----
MR. LAZIO -- Which ones?
MRS. CLINTON -- You know, Gabe ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K. I'm the speaker of the House, you're a member. Go ahead.
MRS. CLINTON -- Thank you, Gabe. You know, Gabe, I learned that an organization claimed credit for sponsoring a fund-raiser I attended. And it's an organization whose members have made statements that I find offensive and have condemned. And as soon as I found out the facts, I returned all of the money that was raised because I did not want anyone to have a false impression about my strong support for Israel's safety and security. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Abe Foxman, the head of the A.D.L., the Anti-Defamation League, says that these organizations, these Muslim organizations, can be in the mainstream when they condemn terrorism.
MRS. CLINTON -- I agree with that. Abe and I have talked about that. I agree with that. That certainly every American should be part of the political process. But no American should in any way give aid and comfort to terrorists. And it's especially important today when we see the bombing of the U.S.S. Cole and the loss of 17 of our young men and women, which was just an evil act of terrorism.
MR. PRESSMAN -- Do you have a comment, briefly?
MR. LAZIO -- I do want to comment if I can. I think first of all that the people of New York want to have somebody who has a consistent record. And for eight years I have been consistent and strong in my support for the security of the state of Israel. Without equivocation. Without a question mark next to my name.
You know, it is important for people to understand, when you cavort with terrorists, with people that pronounce that violence and murder can be used as a tool to achieve political ends, you give them credibility. You embolden them and you send a message out to the world. Now, I think it was important that in the hours after the United States failed to use its veto, to -- in the U.N. Security Council -- which I think was one of the great mistakes of the last few years, that I spoke out immediately. I'm sure that Mrs. Clinton had a chance to speak with her husband about this, with the president about this, to urge him not to use that veto. I would love to know what the context of the discussion was.
MR. PRESSMAN -- To urge him not to use it or to use it?
MR. LAZIO -- To urge him to use the veto.
MRS. CLINTON -- That was what I urged my husband to do. He made a different decision. But you know, when we're talking about strong and unequivocal support, there is no question mark next to me. There's an exclamation point. I am an emphatic, unwavering supporter of Israel's safety and security. And in fact I've done it at some cost indeed, Mr. Lazio, because ----
MR. LAZIO -- Could I ask a question?
MRS. CLINTON -- When the independent -- let me finish, please -- when the Independence Party was considering who to nominate, I made it very clear that I would not run on a party line with Pat Buchanan because of his anti-Semitic comments. You were more than happy to accept that particular line ----
MR. LAZIO -- Mrs. Clinton, that's not totally accurate. That's not totally accurate. First of all, your people ----
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, that's how it was reported.
MR. LAZIO -- Your people were up there working hard for that, No. 1. No. 2 is ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- They were working hard for the Independence ----
MR. LAZIO -- No. 2, could I ----
MRS. CLINTON -- You know, I've specifically said publicly that I wouldn't take it if they nominated Pat Buchanan. It was up to them to decide what to do and they would not make that ----
MR. LAZIO -- Could I try and finish my point, Gabe, if I can? And I'm happy to try and ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- Why wouldn't you take it?
MRS. CLINTON -- Because I wouldn't want to be associated with Pat Buchanan, who has a record of anti-Semitic comments. And I made that very clear at the time. You can go back and look at my comments.
MR. LAZIO -- And you know I answered questions from you, Gabe, how I felt about him and condemned him and the fact that he has been intolerant. But the point is it's very hard to accept a record or a claim of consistency when you called for a Palestinian state with full military powers. It's very difficult to accept that you are a consistent supporter when you stand on the sidelines while Suha Arafat issues a blood libel suggesting that Israelis have been orchestrating an attack on Palestinian women and children with poison. It's very difficult for ----
MR. PRESSMAN -- What about that Suha Arafat thing? As long as you brought it up.
MR. LAZIO -- . . . for us to imagine you've been a consistent supporter when you refused to support the law which says that we should move our embassy to Jerusalem, not next year, not at the end of the year, after eight years, but right now. For eight years I've wanted the embassy to be placed in Jerusalem.
MRS. CLINTON -- You know, I can only respond because, you know, as The Forward said when they endorsed me, Jewish voters should reject smear campaigns, inaccurate information ----
MR. LAZIO -- But what's inaccurate about that?
MRS. CLINTON -- . . . much of which is floating around.
MR. LAZIO -- But what's inaccurate about that? Be fair.
MR. PRESSMAN -- Hang on.
MRS. CLINTON -- You know, my positions -- my positions for more than 20 years have been to do everything I could to support Israel and to increase the relationships between the United States and Israel. I've worked on everything from the National Council of Jewish Women's program to bring a pre-instruction, preschool instruction program for children of the United States, you know, to speaking out, time and time again, about violence and terrorism. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- Did you accept the Independence nomination?
MR. LAZIO -- No.
MRS. CLINTON -- That's because it wasn't offered.
MR. LAZIO -- No. It wasn't offered to either one of us, to be fair about that. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K. Campaign finance. The issue has been raised kind of inferentially previously. But one thing that disturbs people about your fund-raising, Mr. Lazio, is that you've taken contributions from the housing industry, and that you serve on a committee that regulates housing. Is this likely to instill confidence in the voters?
MR. LAZIO -- Well, I think that if you look at the average donation that I receive, it's like less than $100, Gabe. We have rejected the use of soft money in this campaign. My campaign has neither raised nor spent a dollar of soft money, which is a very different experience from my opponent, Mrs. Clinton's campaign. We could have easily decided to go down that road of trying to raise a lot of money in very large denominations, but decided against it. I have done a good deal of work in the House of Representatives. Of course I've been very active on housing issues, on helping the homeless, helping poor people with public housing, helping Native Americans. . . .
MR. PRESSMAN -- But have you gotten contributions, heavy contributions, from the housing industry?
MR. LAZIO -- We've gotten contributions from a whole range of people with different interests that are important to the quality of life of New Yorkers. Do New Yorkers care about the homeless? I believe they do. And that's why I've authored legislation to help them. Public-housing residents -- the most sweeping reform in public-housing history -- was authored by me and passed in the House and signed into law, which I'm proud to say.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, Gabe, let me perhaps enlighten you on his record, since he did not. He received a million dollars in contributions from the home-building industry and from the manufacturers of homes. And in return, at least there is an appearance that he did several things. He fought to weaken the safety standards for manufactured housing and in-home building.
MR. PRESSMAN -- True or false.
MR. LAZIO -- That's absolutely false. And you know it, Mrs. Clinton. Please do not make up things.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, Mr. Lazio, you just quoted -- you just referred to The Daily News, which ran an investigative article which made exactly that point. In addition ----
MR. LAZIO -- That is absolutely false.
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, but it appears that ----
MR. LAZIO -- Let me tell you something, Mrs. Clinton, in eight years -- there's one thing that I will not tolerate. And that's being dragged down into the mud. My reputation is impeccable. My integrity is impeccable. Never in my life has anybody accused me of doing a single thing because of who supported me. I am very proud of my record on housing. . . . There's been nobody else in the House of Representatives who's stood up for poor people and to provide them with good-quality housing. Now, are you going to complain about that? The fact that I've been there for the homeless, I've been there to provide housing for people with AIDS ----
MRS. CLINTON -- Well, it's ----
MR. LAZIO -- I've been there for Native American people, I've been there for people who rely on Section 8 . . . that I'm boosting homeownership for our young families.
MR. PRESSMAN -- O.K.
MRS. CLINTON -- In fact, I'll be meeting with a group of public-housing tenants this evening because what their memory of that fight was, Mr. Lazio, is that you were trying to remove the caps from the limits that would in some way prohibit a lot of people from being able to have the public housing that they needed because you were going to make it available to more people than just the very poorest of the poor. But let me just go back, Gabe ----
MR. LAZIO -- I'd be happy to talk about housing policy if you want.
MRS. CLINTON -- . . . for a minute. Because not only -- not only is there a problem with the home builders and the safety standards, but the F.H.A. was trying to increase the limits that would enable a person who wanted to be a homeowner to be able to borrow at low interest. And my opponent fought that. He did not want those limits raised and around the time of that fight he received significant contributions from the mortgage banking industry.
MR. PRESSMAN -- All right, let me ----
MR. LAZIO -- Do you understand that the standards that you're talking about were endorsed by the administration's Department of Housing and Urban Development? Do you understand that?
MRS. CLINTON -- Do you understand that the standards I'm talking about, that you were trying to weaken, were said by the AARP that they would have put people in danger?
MR. PRESSMAN -- Alright.
MR. LAZIO -- O.K. now, they've endorsed the bill. . . .
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); WOMEN (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); CASINOS (69%); GAMING (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



736 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, One Senate Candidate Goes on the Road as His Rival Goes on the Air

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: SOMERVILLE, N.J., Oct. 27

 BODY:
Representative Bob Franks opened the final act of his race for the Senate today with a bus tour aimed at driving home his message that he has begun to cut into the lead of his Democratic opponent, Jon S. Corzine.
As political theater goes, the props were in place but the house was thin. An immense silver bus carried only Mr. Franks and an aide for most of the trip from here in Somerset County to Newark to Pennsauken and then to a television appearance in Philadelphia, and the audiences at the two public events were closer to claques than crowds. 
 Still, buoyed this week by a narrowing gap in one poll and an unexpected $600,000 from the National Republican Senatorial Committee, Mr. Franks said he believed that a race that once looked unwinnable had inched into the might-be column. And today he devoted his speeches and interviews to hammering his rival for the cost of his proposals and for the tens of millions that Mr. Corzine, a Wall Street success story, has spent on the race.
At his kickoff rally here, after ticking off a list of Mr. Corzine's ambitious programs for health, education and care of the elderly, Mr. Franks accused his opponent of failing to appreciate Congress's work in balancing the country's books and even providing a surplus.
"Folks, I helped to balance this budget and I can tell you there's not enough in the surplus to pay for his program," Mr. Franks declared, referring to Mr. Corzine. "His program will wreck the surplus."
Although the rally was staged in front of the Somerset Administration Building, with a ready number of political workers inside, the crowd was small enough to be counted by hand -- 41 people, including a contingent of Republican leaders.
Those leaders included Donald T. DiFrancesco, the president of the State Senate, and Dick Zimmer, the Republican candidate for his old Congressional seat from New Jersey's 12th District.
Dale Florio, an influential lobbyist in Trenton and chairman of the Somerset Republican Committee, turned the small turnout into a little partisan joke, by blaming Republican successes under Gov. Christine Todd Whitman.
"I wish we had a bigger crowd, but because of our great governor we have a great economy, and everybody's working," Mr. Florio said.
Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, spent this morning in New York City, attending an editorial board meeting at El Diario, the Spanish-language daily, and sitting for an interview on WNNY-AM (1380), an all-news Spanish radio station with a wide audience in northern New Jersey.
Then, back in New Jersey, Mr. Corzine sat for an interview with News 12 New Jersey at which he seemed to respond to the concerns of voters that his programs might be too costly by emphasizing that he would not compromise the budget to pay for them.
While his health care goals early in the campaign were unambiguous -- universal coverage through government insurance and employer mandates -- Mr. Corzine implied that he would scale back those goals if they jeopardized a balanced budget.
"We don't need to spend ourselves back into deficits or raise taxes," he said on the program "The Hot Seat."
Mr. Corzine also released two new TV commercials today that attack Mr. Franks.
One, which implies that Mr. Franks -- who generally supports abortion rights -- would back Supreme Court nominees who do not, casts the election as a choice between "putting a woman's right to choose at risk with Bob Franks," or "protecting a woman's right to choose with Jon Corzine."
The other, which will appear only on Philadelphia TV stations, criticizes Mr. Franks's environmental record in South Jersey, saying his voting in Congress "puts our families at risk."
Mr. Franks also taped a television interview for the program "Inside Trenton." Like Mr. Corzine, he acknowledged public concerns about spending, and he did so by distancing himself from the large tax cuts proposed by his own party's presidential candidate, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
"Candidly, I am a bit concerned about Governor Bush's tax cuts," Mr. Franks said. "They depend on all those trillions in the surplus being realized year after year."
"I don't want to backslide into the days of deficits," Mr. Franks said. " I don't want to go back."
Not surprisingly, the people who met the candidates today or heard them speak offered generally positive views of each.
Barbara Gallucci, 60, Old Bridge, proved she had paid attention to the TV commercials about Mr. Corzine's homespun prairie boyhood in Illinois. "He's more of a homebody, a person for the people," Mrs. Gallucci said after Mr. Corzine had greeted her at the Peterpank Diner on Route 9 in South Amboy. "He was born on a farm, and I like the way he'll protect Social Security and work to make prescriptions affordable."
Late in the afternoon, residents of The Fountains Adult Residential Community in Pennsauken used the Franks fliers they had been handed to shade their eyes from a bright autumn sun as he again struck his theme -- that Mr. Corzine's lead had narrowed to five percentage points in the latest Quinnipiac University poll.
Rose Jacovelli, a resident, appreciated the visit. "He was good enough to show up," she said, "so that's good enough for me." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (66%); STATE SENATE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (66%); STATE SENATE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LOBBYING (79%); THEATER (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); RADIO FORMATS (56%); 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



737 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: THE SENATE CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW;
Lazio and First Lady Quarrel On Ethics, Israel and Schools

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Rick A. Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton engaged in a quarrelsome hour of bickering and badgering in their final debate yesterday, as they attacked each other's ethics, commitment to Israel and proposals to improve the nation's education system.
Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton turned their third and final encounter of the Senate race in New York into the political equivalent of a food fight, barking out insults, citing damaging newspaper accounts about each other's alleged misdeeds, and repeatedly talking over each other. 
 The moderator, Gabe Pressman of WNBC, seemed at times amused -- though at times startled -- by the rancorous display between a first lady and a member of Congress that was unfolding within the hushed confines of a third-floor television studio at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. Excerpts, Page B8.
Mr. Lazio suggested that Mrs. Clinton's support for a Palestinian state, as well as what he asserted was her association with radical Palestinian leaders, had threatened Israeli security and undercut the peace process. Mrs. Clinton accused Mr. Lazio of trying to avoid a discussion about his positions on health care and the economy by raising what she asserted were false claims about her commitment to Israeli security.
They accused each other of playing politics on everything from legislation to finance breast cancer treatment to abortion.
But the substance of the debate -- and there was some -- was frequently drowned out in the theatrics of the moment: Mr. Lazio turned red and angry as Mrs. Clinton criticized his ethics for taking contributions from the housing industry, and Mrs. Clinton folded her arms and looked sternly at him as he blamed her for the quality of schools in Arkansas.
"Can I just try to get the truth through for one moment please, Gabe?" Mr. Lazio said during one of a number of rounds in which both candidates demanded the floor from Mr. Pressman.
"You don't know where to start with Mr. Lazio. He does go on," Mrs. Clinton said at another point, with what appeared to be an exaggerated exhibition of exasperation.
Mr. Pressman, 76, who has been moderating debates in New York politics since 1965, seemed like the teacher trying to take control of an unruly classroom for much of the session. "Order, please, order!" Mr. Pressman demanded. The request often went unheeded.
The debate was taped yesterday afternoon at WNBC studios and broadcast last night. The two candidates are seeking to succeed Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat who is retiring after serving four terms in Washington.
In a departure from the previous debates, where both candidates stood behind lecterns, Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton sat at a round table with Mr. Pressman, with bookshelves at their backs. The absence of lecterns or any time limits lent itself to something of a free-for-all. And by now, both candidates were experienced enough with debating, and with each other, that both seemed comfortable in the setting and primed for a fight.
Of the three debates, yesterday's was nearly as quarrelsome as the first one. Mr. Lazio was noticeably more combative than he was in the second debate, perhaps reflecting the pressure he may feel because of polls that show him slightly trailing Mrs. Clinton.
In this environment, it was hardly surprising that Mr. Lazio seemed startled midway into the debate when Mr. Pressman, reading from a series of e-mail news releases sent out by each campaign attacking the other, inquired if the two candidates disliked each other.
"It's not a matter of personal dislike," he finally said. He returned to what was his standard campaign speech, suggesting that the main differences between them were philosophical -- until Mrs. Clinton cut him off.
"This is what's called a filibuster, Gabe," she said. Mr. Pressman then asked Mrs. Clinton to name three things she liked about Mr. Lazio.
After hesitating a moment, she responded, "It seems like he has a very nice family. And that he, you know, has worked very hard. And that, you know, he's an attractive young man."
Mr. Lazio, who is a very youthful 42-year-old, gazed back at his opponent and said: "Well, I think you're an attractive woman. And I think you've got a very nice family. I'm sure you're a very good mother as well."
There was, at that, roars of laughter from the supporters of both candidates who had joined reporters to watch the taping on video monitors that had been set up in another studio, which is normally used by "Saturday Night Live."
At another point, Mr. Lazio became infuriated as Mrs. Clinton suggested -- "Let me perhaps enlighten you on his record," she said to Mr. Pressman -- that Mr. Lazio had taken campaign contributions in return for supporting a bill that weakened consumer protections on factory-made housing.
While it is true that Mr. Lazio accepted donations from housing industry executives in the late 1990's, the final bill that passed this year was modified to address concerns raised by consumer groups and the AARP, an alteration that Mrs. Clinton failed to mention when she attacked Mr. Lazio.
"That is absolutely false, and you know it Mrs. Clinton," Mr. Lazio said, a flash of anger in his eyes. "Please, do not make up things."
She responded by citing a report in The Daily News, but was interrupted by Mr. Lazio: "Let me tell you something, Mrs. Clinton: In eight years, there's one thing that I will not tolerate, and that's being dragged down into the mud. My reputation is impeccable. My integrity is impeccable. Never in my life has anybody accused me of doing a single thing because of who supported me."
The first lady got her own opportunity to display anger at Mr. Lazio when he attacked her record on Israel, noting that she had been an early supporter of the creation of a Palestinian state and had raised $50,000 at an event sponsored by a Muslim American group. The group's president has been accused of having expressed support for the right of Palestinians to use armed resistance against Israel. Mrs. Clinton decided this week to return the money.
Mr. Lazio suggested that there was a "question mark" next to Mrs. Clinton on Israel. The problem is "that many people around the world -- and the Palestinian Authority -- looks at you and your comments and your proximity to the White House and your role in the White House," Mr. Lazio said. "And when you call for a Palestinian state, when you accept contributions from people that support Hamas, when you invite them to the White House, and they're your guests, you send a message out to the world and to the Palestinian Authority that encourages violence to be used as a tool to achieve political ends."
Mrs. Clinton turned sternly to the camera and noted that she had returned the money. "I learned that an organization claimed credit for sponsoring a fund-raiser I attended. And it's an organization whose members have made statements that I find offensive and have condemned. And as soon as I found out the facts, I returned all of the money that was raised because I did not want anyone to have a false impression about my strong support for Israel's safety and security."
She later said, "There is no question mark next to me. There's an exclamation point. I am an emphatic, unwavering supporter of Israel's safety and security."
The two candidates also quarreled over Mr. Lazio's role in Congressional approval of legislation to finance breast cancer treatment for working poor women. President Clinton signed the bill without a ceremony in part, aides said, because he did not want to give his wife's opponent a prominent stage on an issue that could prove potent with women.
Both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio claimed some credit for the bill getting through, with Mr. Lazio insisting that he was the author of the legislation and had personally pushed it through the House. But the first lady said that her opponent was trying to gain political points with the bill, asserting that he had neglected it until shortly after he entered the race for Senate. "This bill, which he does try to take credit for, the credit really belongs to the breast cancer advocates," she said. "And in fact, I just don't think that this is a bill that we should be playing politics with."
Mr. Lazio interrupted her. "My opponent is playing politics with breast cancer right now," he said.
At Mr. Pressman's urging, the candidates returned to the topic of Mrs. Clinton's residency. Mr. Lazio noted, again, that he lived in New York all his life, and that "you can rest assured no matter what happens with this election, you check on me a year from now," and he would still be in the same Long Island home.
Mrs. Clinton also told Mr. Pressman that she intended to stay in New York for "the rest of my life." And to bolster her case that a non-New Yorker can serve the state, she pointed, if in general terms, to a game between two New York teams that had dominated the news here for the past week. "What I was struck by was how, you know, people who weren't born in New York could deliver for New York," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The third and final debate between the major United States Senate candidates, Rick A. Lazio and Hillary Rodham Clinton, which was moderated by Gabe Pressman, center, often turned contentious. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); BREAST CANCER (53%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2000



738 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: October 29, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	POP GOES THE WEASEL, by James Patterson. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) The lives of Alex Cross and his fiancee are imperiled as he pursues a serial killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	7	SAVING FAITH, by David Baldacci. (Warner Vision, $7.99.) A man and a woman are caught in machinations of the F.B.I. involving corrupt forces.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	7	A WALK TO REMEMBER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $6.99.) In 1958, a high school senior in North Carolina finds love with the daughter of a Baptist minister.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	9	LEFT BEHIND, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $13.99 and $7.99.) Life as lived by those who survive a global cataclysm. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	6	MONSTER, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) Alex Delaware undertakes to discover how an inmate of a mental hospital can correctly predict brutal murders on the streets of Los Angeles.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	2	CALDER PRIDE, by Janet Dailey. (HarperTorch, $7.50.) Raising her baby on the Triple C Ranch, Cat Calder finds herself drawn to the new sheriff in town.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	2	HIDING IN THE SHADOWS, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $6.50.) After an accident victim awakes from a coma, her journalist friend disappears without a trace.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	32	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	1	 *BEYOND EDEN, by Catherine Coulter. (Signet, $7.99.) A private investigator is hired to protect a successful model whom someone is trying to kill.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	1	 *TOM CLANCY'S NET FORCE: Breaking Point, created by Tom Clancy and Steve Pieczenik. Written by Steve Perry. (Berkley, $7.99.) In 2011, computer hackers steal top-secret information.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	2	AGENTS OF CHAOS: Jedi eclipse, by James Luceno. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $6.99.) A new novel in the series "Star Wars: The New Jedi Order."		 	 	 	 	 	 12	1	THE LEAST LIKELY BRIDE, by Jane Feather. (Bantam, $6.50.) In 17th-century England, a bookish young woman finds love and adventure with a mysterious seaman.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	7	 *PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf. (Vintage Contemporaries, $13.) A half-dozen members of a high-plains Colorado community learn to contend with the variety of problems that face them.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	1	SECOND WIND, by Dick Francis. (Jove, $6.99.) A British meteorologist chases hurricanes in the Caribbean and then faces other kinds of storms back home.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	7	NIGHT TALES, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $14.95.) Four novels of romantic suspense that revolve around police officers and a prosecutor.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	102	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	7	'TIS, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.) An Irish immigrant gets used to life in America: the second volume of a memoir.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	128	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	A MAN NAMED DAVE, by Dave Pelzer. (Plume, $11.) The concluding volume of a memoir that began with "A Child Called 'It' "and "The Lost Boy." (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	2	HAVE A NICE DAY! by Mick Foley. (Regan/Avon, $7.99.) The autobiography of a professional wrestler known as Mankind.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	79	THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 7	60	THE LIARS' CLUB, by Mary Karr. (Penguin, $12.95.) A poet recalls her childhood as a member of a troubled family in East Texas during the early 1960's.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	124	 *THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991, focusing on a crew of fishermen from Gloucester, Mass.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	7	. . . AND NEVER LET HER GO, by Ann Rule. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) The murder of a secretary to the governor of Delaware by an esteemed attorney.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	67	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	18	TRAVELING MERCIES, by Anne Lamott. (Anchor, $13.) A chronicle of the author's journey toward faith and spirituality.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	20	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 13	13	ISAAC'S STORM, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $13.) An account of America's deadliest hurricane, in Galveston, Tex., in 1900, and the Weather Bureau scientist who failed to forecast it.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	6	 *ONE LAST TIME, by John Edward. (Berkley, $12.95.) A self-described psychic medium discusses his life and work.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	10	 *THE TERRIBLE HOURS, by Peter Maas. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The role a Navy officer played in rescuing the crew of a submarine in 1939.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	3	 *A YEAR BY THE SEA, by Joan Anderson. (Broadway, $12.95.) A record of the author's 12 months on Cape Cod, filled with self-discovery and change.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	 	 	 	 1	49	WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson. (Putnam, $19.95.) How to deal with changes at work and in life in general. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	8	GUINNESS world RECORDS 2001. (Guinness, $26.95.) A profusely illustrated collection of records about subjects as various as sports and technology.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	58	BODY FOR LIFE, by Bill Phillips with Michael D'Orso. (HarperCollins, $26.) Ways to improve one's body and one's life. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	2	LIFE MAKEOVERS, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $21.95.) How to improve one's life a week at a time. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	2	FACE FORWARD, by Kevyn Aucoin. (Little, Brown, $32.95.) Advice on the use of cosmetics from a makeup artist.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	 	 	 	 1	6	TALKING DIRTY WITH THE QUEEN OF CLEAN, by Linda Cobb. (Pocket Books, $8.99.) A housekeeping guide.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	25	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	211	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 4	15	THE FOUR AGREEMENTS, by Don Miguel Ruiz. (Amber-Allen, $12.95.) A code of conduct based on personal freedom. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 5	15	TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $13.) A seven-step program for enhancing social, financial and spiritual well-being. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Oct. 14, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ENGLAND (76%); UNITED STATES (76%); BELGIUM (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); ENGLAND (76%); UNITED STATES (76%); BELGIUM (53%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (76%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); WRITERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); MURDER (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); WOMEN (75%); HOMICIDE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); SHERIFFS (64%); COMPUTER CRIME (64%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (52%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



739 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 18; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Clueless in Virginia

BYLINE: By Jacqueline Carey; Jacqueline Carey is the author of "The Other Family," a novel, and "Good Gossip," a collection of stories.

 BODY:

 BLUE RIDGE
 By T. R. Pearson.
 243 pp. New York:
 Viking. $24.95. 
 I wish more mainstream writers turned out the occasional mystery. There are notable exceptions, but most American detective novels are composed with all the verve and originality of the instruction manual that came with your food processor. And thanks to the iron grip of Raymond Chandler, that mystery-cum-manual is probably littered with preposterous metaphors that are better read with your eyes half shut, for your own protection. (English whodunits, on the other hand, are generally worse.)
I can say all this because I am an indefatigable fan of the mystery genre. As such, I was curious to see what T. R. Pearson would do with it in his new book, "Blue Ridge." Pearson is best known for "A Short History of a Small Place," a deceptively folksy, highly ornate exploration of a suicide in a small Southern town. Every long-winded writer who ever set foot south of the Mason-Dixon line has been compared to Faulkner, but there's no getting around it -- A Short History of a Small Place" is definitely Faulknerian. In mystery circles, Faulkner is best known for remaining indisputably himself when he wrote the detective stories in "Knight's Gambit." Pearson, too, remains his neo-Faulknerian self in "Blue Ridge," and the results are delightful.
The book alternates between two crime stories, and -- on the surface, at least -- the conventions are followed. Ray Tatum, a new deputy sheriff in Hogarth, Va., is directed by a couple of hikers to a pile of bare bones just off the Appalachian Trail. The skull is caved in. For the investigation, he is teamed up, buddy-movie style, with a tough black Park Service employee who could be played by Pam Grier. ("Well, well," she says to one man they're questioning, "if it isn't Superfly.")
The other story concerns Ray's cousin Paul, an actuary in Roanoke, who is asked to come to New York to identify the body of his son. Paul has never really been acquainted with the young man (more on that later), but he dutifully goes north and winds up being escorted around Manhattan by various colorful cops and criminals, all of whom are very interested in what exactly happened to this ne'er-do-well.
The two puzzles end in real solutions, with none of the life-will-always-be-unknowable evasions found in many literary expositions of the genre. The solutions are simple and believable, not surprising -- but that isn't the point. Pearson is up to a lot more here.
"Blue Ridge" is much funnier than most mysteries: not too broad, not too dry, effortlessly finding the right tone, time after time. Paul, who can be devastatingly honest about his own haplessness, finds himself in especially ludicrous situations. (On an earlier trip to New York for an actuarial conference, he and a colleague decided to save money and stay in Weehawken, N. J., near the Lincoln Tunnel, in a motel that advertised rooms by the hour. As he recalls the story, the motel manager and a customer abandoned a heated argument and stood in stunned silence when confronted by the two men's request, "helplessly constrained, I have to think now, to imagine me and Lowell engaged together in some manner of middle-aged white-boy sexual congress, 72 prepaid hours of swampy actuarial love.")
The splicing together of the two different plots puzzled me at first. The investigations start off unrelated and remain so throughout the book. (I think I can give that much away.) But gradually it became clear how very shrewd this decision was. Paul's story confounds expectations at every turn, from the moment a local policeman shows up at his insurance firm, obviously bearing bad news. Paul casts his mind over his family tree, trying to figure out which relative has died. When he is told it is his son, he pauses, then says, "Who?" It's a funny line, and quickly explained by the circumstances: the boy was conceived after a casual fling in the early 1970's and his now-deceased mother opted for single parenthood; Paul has seen his offspring only once or twice in over 20 years. But that "Who?" is also indicative of the poison in Paul's personality. He has no feel at all for human ties. His cousin Ray is the more usual solitary detective type: he's divorced; he wanders from job to job. But it's all because of a horrible loss in Ray's past for which he feels responsible. His presence is an implicit criticism of Paul, a character it would be hard to read a whole book about.
After consulting an advice column in the newspaper about ways to ease up on his compulsive tidiness, Paul picks out a dog at the pound. But the dog annoys him, and one night he neglects to let his new pet back in the house. Later, when a neighbor with two kids asks if the dog is his, Paul says, "Never seen him before" and suggests that she keep him. This is the sort of thing heroes of detective novels do before they inexplicably go off and risk death to save the lives of strangers. The idea is that the dog would be better off with the neighbor, so the hero sacrifices his own comfort. You are never supposed to believe the crusty excuses he makes. But in "Blue Ridge," even though you may be laughing at the way Paul tells the story, abandoning a dog turns out to be nothing more than abandoning a dog.
In a comic novel, you'd barely notice Paul's fecklessness. In a detective novel, which depends on an exaggerated sense of responsibility in the hero, Paul's failings are always sneaking up on you. He sees people being threatened, injured and killed, and he doesn't seem to care. The real suspense here is whether this man will ever be roused from his almost sociopathic numbness.
A whole series of parallel situations between Ray's story and Paul's reinforces the contrast between the two men: children lost, sexual favors offered, household furnishings inventoried. Ray even has a neighbor who has obsessively searched for his missing dog for 25 years. If all this sounds too schematic, it is -- a little. (It's also hard to forgive Pearson's use of the word "closure," ironic or not.) But a mystery is defined by its artifice.
Pearson has never been timid about pushing form to its limits, and his splendid prose is also artificial, stunningly so -- high-pitched, evocative, decorative and closer to the human heart than the rictus-grinned pseudorealism of many modern mysteries. For Pearson, aesthetics are the stuff of life. In the beginning of "Blue Ridge," Ray gets thrown out of a motel because his dog barks at the cheesy furnishings. On the other hand, Paul's admiration of the impeccable taste of the criminal who first has him beaten up and then wines and dines him is a failing we cannot forgive.
At one point, a New York detective asks for Paul's help in going through the stuff in his son's apartment and Paul comes across a photograph of the young man's mother:
"She'd grown jowly, and her hair was cropped close and highlighted. She was standing in front of a run of board fencing, alongside a spruce the color of bread mold, was grinning slightly and looked tired to me, looked a trifle disappointed.
" 'How about her?' Doogan had emerged from the closet with a glossy 8 by 10 in hand, a photo of an arrestingly shapely woman in a bikini who cradled a spear gun in her arms.
" 'Ursula Andress,' I told him.
"Doogan flipped the thing over for a closer look. 'Oh.' "
This moment of deflation seems so obvious that I can't believe I haven't come across something similar in the thousands of scenes I've read in which a victim's belongings are examined. Or maybe I have, but it wasn't as beautifully handled. Maybe it didn't demonstrate so pointedly the sad gap between pop-culture crime and real-life crime.
Practitioners and fans of the mystery genre have long used Faulkner to shore up its sometimes shaky reputation. Sooner or later, they'll be doing the same with T. R. Pearson.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Helen Grohman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); SHERIFFS (69%); DEATHS (68%); HIKING (63%); 

PERSON: RAY TATUM (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



740 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Eyewitness Account

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen; Roger Cohen, the Berlin bureau chief of The Times, is the author of "Hearts Grown Brutal: Sagas of Sarajevo."

 BODY:

 History of
 the Present
 Essays, Sketches, and Dispatches
 From Europe in the 1990s.
 By Timothy Garton Ash.
 389 pp. New York:
 Random House. $29.95. 
 With the cold war won and Wall Street on a winning streak, America's interest in Europe has waned. Yet it has been a convulsive decade. Violence took more European lives in the 1990's than in the entire 44-year period of the cold war. Several post-Communist societies muddled their way toward democracy and the market economy. Another, Yugoslavia, fissured in a blood bath. The wars of its destruction may finally have ended with the ouster this month of Slobodan Milosevic, Serbia's ruthless leader. Saying goodbye and good riddance to the full exercise of their sovereignty, several West European states created a common currency, the euro. The thinly-veiled political objective behind the money could scarcely have been bolder: the forging, one day, of a United States of Europe.
These are the weighty themes of Timothy Garton Ash's "History of the Present," a collection of essays and dispatches from one the most penetrating observers of Europe's recent transformation. A rather self-conscious introduction announces that the author has sought to combine "the crafts of historian and journalist," an objective that in lesser hands might merely have yielded mediocre illustrations of both. But Garton Ash has the wherewithal for his ambitious genre. His strongest pieces combine a quick eye, a gift for concision and an ability to discern the deep currents of history in the restless waters of the present. Pith, prescience and intellectual passion often coalesce to provide a powerful European portrait.
The essays in Garton Ash's book, most of them previously published, form what he calls a kaleidoscope. At times, the patterns are vivid, the images brilliantly illuminating. At others, the fragments are disjointed or simply repetitive. We hear not once but twice from the anonymous French businessman who comments acidly that expansion of the European Union to include post-Communist central Europe should always be talked about but never considered. The term "demokratura," used to describe an authoritarian regime dressed up in the garb of democracy, returns with irritating frequency to characterize governments as different as Milosevic's murderous Serbia and Vladimir Meciar's messy Slovakia. And the eviction of "innocent" Germans from Eastern Europe after the end of Hitler's terror appears to be something of an obsession.
But when Garton Ash, a fellow of St. Antony's College, Oxford, explores his favorite themes, the results are often formidable. Two of the most important essays are "Catching the Wrong Bus?" and "The Case for Liberal Order." In them, he argues that European leaders made a cardinal error a decade ago by setting monetary union in the western part of the continent as their chief political priority. That priority should have been the swift integration of post-Communist countries into the democratic order of the European Union: "They put Maastricht before Sarajevo," he writes, referring to the Dutch city where the treaty on the euro was agreed to in 1991.
His case is compelling, and impressive for the cogent consistency with which he has argued it since the Berlin Wall fell. No post-Communist state has joined the European Union; dates for entry keep getting postponed. Meanwhile, monetary union -- decided in haste and on high in order to tie a reunited Germany to an integrated Europe -- is suffering from its largely undemocratic conception and from the absence of a coherent, broadly acceptable political project to accompany it. Hence, in part, the weakness of the euro, which has lost 25 percent of its value in 21 months. A European money probably needs a European government to administer it; but not enough Europeans want such a goverment, at least not now.
As a result, Garton Ash is deeply suspicious of what he sees as a drive to push Europeans toward more union than they want. His is a conservative Atlanticism, that of a British intellectual deeply engaged in Europe, enraged by the myopia of so many Little Englanders, but still suspicious of too much centralizing idealism on a Continent so ravaged, still convinced that avoidance of the worst is a worthy goal.
Disaster, he suggests, is not impossible. Germans, who have abandoned the much-loved symbol of their postwar nationhood, the mark, may come to view the euro as another Versailles. A "serious danger" exists that the French-German "magnetic core" of an integrating Europe could come to exert "magnetic repulsion." In a Continent now marked by the rise of populist, rightist politicians like Jorg Haider in Austria, and increasingly wary of the notion of a European "superstate," such warnings are hard to ignore. But the political investment in the euro is probably too great, and the ultimate American interest in a stable Europe too keen, for an implosion to come to pass.
In its southeastern Balkan corner, Europe has already had its share of cataclysms in the past decade. Garton Ash backs into the story in the strangest of ways, with an account of the expulsion of the Serbs by a resurgent Croatian Army in 1995. This is a bit like beginning an account of World War II with the story of those Sudeten Germans ethnically cleansed after 1945. He refers to this expulsion more than once as "the biggest single exodus" of the Bosnian war. In fact, that dubious accolade belongs to the more than 750,000 Muslims driven out by the Serbs as they swept through Bosnia in the first months of the war in 1992. This exodus was also the result of one devastating, coordinated sweep. Yet the Serbian concentration camps through which many of the Muslims were processed merit not a mention.
This lacuna is doubly strange because Garton Ash gets so much right. "Hitler," he writes, "should have been stopped when he remilitarized the Rhineland in 1936; Milosevic at the siege of Vukovar in 1991." Indeed. And his critique of the no-body-bags approach of Bill Clinton and the Pentagon in Bosnia and later Kosovo is superb: "It is a perverted moral code that will allow a million innocent civilians of another race to be made destitute because you are not prepared to risk the life of a single professional soldier of your own." As Garton Ash explains, thousands of ethnic Albanian lives were sacrificed in 1999 because there was no readiness to accompany the NATO bombardment of Kosovo with the deployment of a ground force that could stop the marauding Serbian killers. Years before that, the dismemberment of Bosnia went as far as it did because of similar hesitations. For President Clinton to claim Bosnia as a success story, as he has often done since 1995, is simply extraordinary. Garton Ash now sees little alternative to allowing ethnic separation to be completed in the Balkans, a process that he hopes will eventually open the way for their reintegration. This, he suggests, is the European way; to fight it is to try "to freeze history."
Of course, the United States and its allies are trying to prove him wrong by preserving some semblance of mixed societies in Bosnia and even Kosovo. In Bosnia, they may succeed because they have something to build on; Garton Ash underestimates the reality of a Bosnian identity even among many Serbs there. In Kosovo, however, any meaningful multiethnic project is almost surely doomed at this stage. Meanwhile, with Garton Ash, we are left to rue the painful fact that "the democratization of Yugoslavia, and of Bosnia in particular, would, had it worked, have been a unique example of a part of Europe moving peacefully from a truly multiethnic society under an undemocratic (imperial, then Communist) political roof to such a society within a democratic framework."
It is this sort of perception, and writing, that makes "History of the Present" essential reading. Garton Ash sometimes seems unsure of his role, assuming a highhanded pomposity that makes certain passages read like a "History of My Presence." He is often scathing toward journalists, dismissing their "color," their "cliches" and their "Sarajevo safaris," and suggesting that CNN and Christiane Amanpour play fast and loose with the truth. Yet this is the craft he claims to be practicing, at least in part, and the role of journalists in the Balkans -- not least the discovery of the camps in Bosnia in 1992 -- has surely done more honor to the profession than damage.
At the start of his book, throwing in the towel on his convoluted attempts to define history-cum-journalism, Garton Ash writes that the final test must be this: "Is the result true, important, interesting or moving? If it is, never mind the label. If it isn't, then it's not worth reading anyway." So let us apply the test. True? Most of the time. Important? Sometimes. Interesting? Always. Moving? Surprisingly so.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Danijel Zezelj)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLD WAR (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EURO (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); WRITERS (87%); HISTORY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CURRENCIES (68%); EYEWITNESSES (65%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



741 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 23; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Compris? Coperto? Confused.

BYLINE: By LIBBY LUBIN; LIBBY LUBIN writes frequently about travel.

 BODY:
IN 1521 on a trip from Bruges to Cologne, the German artist Albrecht Durer handled transactions in 18 different currencies that included stuivers, anglots, orrts, and weisspfennigs. His pockets bulging with masses of mismatched coins, he probably never knew how much he was really paying for his rooms at the inn.
Half a millennium later, in a radically transformed Europe, virtual euros have simplified financial transactions to the point of boredom, while credit cards have very nearly eliminated the use of currency. During a recent year abroad, as my husband and I traveled through a Europe rife with cash machines and money changers, paying our bills was simple and straightforward. Tipping was a different matter. 
 You see, we, like many Americans, are intent -- no, obsessed -- with doing the right thing when we travel abroad. We speak quietly in restaurants, we dress tastefully, and we drink local wines. But when it comes to leaving a tip, our savoir-faire abandons us and we become mired in self-doubt. Ten percent? Fifteen percent? Eighteen percent? And what if the service is already included? If we leave too little we'll seem cheap and small-minded, but leave too much and, worse still, we'll be taken for arrogant industrialists, skimming the cream off foreign nations, profiteering from currency imbalances, and flaunting our imperialist economy.
I should confess that even in the United States I do not feel comfortable in the role of Lady Bountiful. I mostly lug my bags through hotel lobbies. "No, please don't worry," I assure distressed porters as I huff and puff, "They're practically empty."
Similarly, my husband, David, a college professor, finds that his ability to calculate simple percentages abandons him the moment his taxi pulls over to the curb. "How much did you tip?" I asked him in New York after a lengthy cab ride from La Guardia airport. David paused for a moment of deep concentration. "About 90 percent," he finally calculated.
But in Europe, the problem goes beyond simple math to issues of self-esteem and intercultural relations. Indeed, we found on our recent sojourn that the symbolism and expectations surrounding tipping were as varied and capricious as the coinage in Durer's time.
Britain, for starters, has so many inconsistencies and variations associated with gratuities that there was actually a bill before Parliament several years ago to try and impose some sort of national norm. The basic confusion arises from a "voluntary tip" that restaurant managers sometimes, but not always, add to bills. In theory you don't have to pay it, but more often people mistake it for some sort of cocktail or dessert and leave yet another tip -- thus increasing the cost of the dinner by about 35 percent. It didn't take long before we were on to this ruse. But that was just the beginning.
"You've got to be kidding," a British friend exclaimed, when David tried to leave the barman an extra pound for our pints of ale. "You don't tip at a pub."
When we explained that we didn't want to seem like ugly Americans, our friend elaborated: "It's like, you know, McDonald's. Surely you don't leave a tip at a burger joint." Instead we simply bought another round.
It is well and good, of course, for our British friend to outline local tipping customs -- "Tip a cabby? Are you out of your mind? They make more than I do" -- but for better or worse Americans travel the world with a national identity: very rich. Never mind that the current rate of exchange on the pound makes most Americans in Britain wince each time they pull out their pocket calculators. A century ago, Americans larded with the wealth of the Gilded Age bought castles with bank drafts. Today, times have changed but the sins of those robber barons will be forever visited upon the sons and daughters of the middle class. Call it, if you will, the national debt.
In Italy, the tipping situation is both byzantine and baroque. There is the puzzling but quaint coperto, or, literally, the place setting, which is the fee charged for the clean napkin and tablecloth that may seem like a bargain to anyone who has paid to have a shirt laundered at an Italian hotel. It also functions as an ad hoc service charge, but this is merely the beginning. My Italian friends tell me to leave an additional 4,000 or 5,000 lire a head if the service hasn't already been added into the bill.
But who without graduate work in cryptography can tell whether the scribbled bill we've been presented includes service, much less if it bears any relationship to the meal we have just consumed? One could ask the waiter for clarification, as we once did, only to learn that, well, yes, a service charge had been added but the manager was going to pocket all of it and, moreover, the waiter himself was very underpaid and had small children at home. And what do you do if the waiter, choosing a different tack, presents a frosty limoncello as offerto dalla casa (on the house)? Surely then you should leave a bit more. Of course, given the instant numbing effects of this Amalfitano potion, one tends in these situations to ignore the bottom line altogether.
Coffee bars? Place 200 lire on the counter to ensure that the barman doesn't scald your milk. (Quite a deal for 10 cents!) Autogrill (a k a service station) restrooms? Tip generously -- even if the matron snarls. A clean facility is priceless.
For the most part we followed our friends' advice, generally more economical than our guidebook recommendations, and hoped that we would appear more Roman. But with our flat vowels and mushy consonants it's more likely that we merely seemed cheap.
The border between France and Italy has traditionally been somewhat fluid. Garibaldi, the father of modern Italy, was actually from Nice, while even today many Milanese prefer crepes and souffles to pasta.
But cross that border and the "coperto" evaporates, "servizio" becomes "service" and the cards are laid out for all to see: it is either "compris," which means no additional charges will be applied, or "non compris," which means a service charge will be added to the bill. In other words, they've taken the guesswork out of settling one's accounts. Or so it would seem.
IN Alsace, after a particularly memorable meal, we paid by credit card. No service charge was added to our substantial bill and, as a truly gracious touch, our waiter had drawn a line through the gratuity space on the credit card slip.
We thanked him profusely and, having noted the "service compris" printed on the bottom of the menu, we left nothing. On the way to our car, ever nervous and perplexed, we asked a French couple whether we had done the right thing.
"The service is compris," the husband explained, "but at a restaurant such as this" -- eyebrows raise and voice lowers -- "we leave something extra." Clearly we had failed.
A day later and several thousand meters higher, we were lunching in Murren, a ski resort in Switzerland.
"Excuse me," David asked a Swiss couple at the next table, "do you tip in Switzerland?" Yes, our insecurities had become clinical.
"We don't tip in our country," the young man explained. "The meals are expensive already, but that's all we pay."
After months of such excruciating postprandial uncertainty, we were overwhelmed with a novel sense of well-being. David paid our waiter who in turn counted the exact change from a well-worn leather pouch strapped to his waist. With no complicated percentages, no existential soul searching and no mental math, we pocketed our delightful Swiss coins and headed back to the slopes.
Never mind the exorbitant sum we'd paid for our chicken and potatoes. The transaction had been as clean and precise as a Swiss watch.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Eric Hanson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CURRENCIES (90%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); RESTAURANTS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRECHT DURER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



742 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1841 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Droll Dramatist Who's Also a Diva Moves Up a Notch

BYLINE: By DON SHEWEY; Don Shewey is the author of the biography "Sam Shepard" and a theater critic for The Advocate.

 BODY:
FOR Charles Busch, it was the shock of a lifetime. In 1984, he and some friends put on a campy show to entertain themselves for a weekend at a nightclub on Avenue C in the East Village. With Mr. Busch doing a star turn in drag, "Vampire Lesbians of Sodom" won a cult following, moved to the Provincetown Playhouse and ran for five years.
Now this 44-year-old playwright and performer has attained an even higher level of visibility in the theater. When a six-minute sketch he wrote and performed about a disaffected housewife blossomed into a full-length play, Mr. Busch handed over the diva role to the award-winning Broadway veteran Linda Lavin. Result? "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife" was a hit last season in its limited run at the Manhattan Theater Club. Staged by Lynne Meadow, the club's artistic director, the play has now moved to the Ethel Barrymore Theater on Broadway, where it opens on Thursday. 
 Ms. Lavin plays Marjorie Taub, a cultured Upper West Sider having a midlife meltdown. Bereft after the death of her psychiatrist, she seeks a consolation she can't find from her husband, the well-meaning but never-quite-present Ira (Tony Roberts), or her aged mother, Frieda (Shirl Bernheim), who is alarmingly eloquent on the subject of her bowels. Into this troubled nest, salvation arrives in the form of Lee (Michele Lee), a vivacious enigma.
The comedy that ensues did not earn universal rave reviews when it first opened last February. John Lahr, in The New Yorker, called it "conservative folderol," and a number of reviews mentioned the unsatisfactory ending (which has been somewhat reworked for Broadway). Still, largely thanks to Ms. Lavin's bravura performance, most reviewers shared the opinion of Ben Brantley, who wrote in The New York Times that though "Charles Busch's window-rattling comedy" has moments "cut from the synthetic cloth of television comedy," it "earns its wall-to-wall laughs." No less a Broadway authority than Stephen Sondheim said in print that "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife" "may be the funniest evening I've ever had in the theater."
It might be hard for some people to believe that "The Allergist's Wife" comes from the same planet, let alone the same pen, as "Vampire Lesbians of Sodom." On the other hand, those who have followed Mr. Busch's work have a different perspective. Kyle Renick, who produced four of Mr. Busch's plays at the WPA Theater over the last decade, describes the new play as "both a new direction for him and a summation of the work he has been doing for years."
The question is: How did he get here from there?
Mr. Busch, who lives in a West Village studio stuffed with Orientalia and painted "Gigi red," cheerfully admits, "I didn't set out to be a writer at all." Tall and lithe, Mr. Busch has a highly mobile face and expressive eyes that have served him well as a comically androgynous performer. It's a little surprising to encounter him offstage and discover that he shaves his head. He usually wears wigs, as he did for his stint as a double-crossing cross-dresser in the HBO series "Oz."
"Ever since I was in the womb," he said, "I wanted to be on the stage. Growing up in New York City and going to Broadway theater since I was a kid, I had a rather pragmatic view of show biz. In college I realized I was an offbeat type, and the only way I was going to have a career was to create roles for myself."
He started writing material to perform solo, learned the rudiments of style and exposition, and booked himself into gay bars and small theaters around the country. "It was kind of like being in vaudeville for six years," he said.
In the early 1980's, he and the director Kenneth Elliott assembled an informal company of performers who put on shows at an East Village nightclub called the Limbo Lounge. "I wrote according to what would be acceptable in that space," Mr. Busch recalled. "We performed on an empty stage because we had no place to store furniture. And half the audience was standing up drinking beer, so you couldn't do an elaborate two-act piece.
"When we first did 'Vampire Lesbians,' Ken and I thought, 'What would we like to see at midnight in the East Village?' Of course, you'd want something campy and sexy, cute people with not too much on, and a flamboyant drag role for myself. I never thought I was intentionally writing a play. I was just making up lines for us to say, like a vaudeville sketch."
"Vampire Lesbians" wasn't the only sketch Mr. Busch created that had a shelf life beyond one weekend. The film version of "Psycho Beach Party," a spoof of surf movies, which Mr. Busch performed at the Limbo Lounge in 1986, was well received when it came out last summer.
Unlike, say, the late great Charles Ludlam, whose erudition informed the literate travesties of classic dramas he performed (sometimes in drag) with his Ridiculous Theatrical Company, Mr. Busch said he never sat down to write a play because he had an idea. Rather: "It was to create a marvelous role for myself. Wouldn't it be fun to be Stanwyck in a Capra comedy, or a Mary Quant-type fashion designer in London, or have a Sarah Bernhardt-type role in a 19th-century spectacle? Since I was a kid, I've been fascinated with theater history, and Bernhardt was a favorite figure for me. In a certain crazy sense, I modeled myself on her as actress-manager."
Invited by Mr. Renick to do a play at the WPA Theater, Mr. Busch found that he was no longer content simply spoofing movie genres. He wrote "The Lady in Question" (1989), ostensibly a takeoff on World War II movies, as a critique of the New Age philosophy of enlightened selfishness. Another play, "Red Scare on Sunset" (1991), was a comic melodrama set during the McCarthy era with a heroine who spouted a politically incorrect ideology. "As I began creating these vehicles for myself, I gradually, without intending to, became a writer," Mr. Busch said.
He spent the 1990's experimenting with a variety of forms. "There was a war going on between my three roles as playwright, actor and faux diva," he said. "I finally felt that for the writer to grow, I'd have to keep the diva unemployed for the time being."
He wrote a novel ("Whores of Lost Atlantis"), a nightclub act, a musical revue, a play in which he took a male role ("I didn't enjoy that too much," he says now about the 1995 "You Should Be So Lucky"), and the book for the 1997 Rusty Magee musical "The Green Heart," produced by the Manhattan Theater Club.
"Minutes after the disappointing reviews came out," he remembered, "Lynne Meadow said she would commit to doing my next play, whatever it was, which was a lovely gesture of faith in me."
Around the same time, Mr. Busch had written a one-man show in which he played several female characters, one of whom was Miriam Passman, a raging Upper West Side housewife desperately in search of self-expression. "This was one of the few times I'd looked at my own suburban Jewish background and the people I grew up with in Hartsdale and Westchester," he said. "When Lynne invited me to write a play for her, I hoped to develop that character further. But it was hard to come up with a plot that would let Miriam breathe. The various story lines I came up with sounded very sit-commy."
Having seen the Broadway revival of Edward Albee's play "A Delicate Balance," Mr. Busch started thinking, "Wouldn't it be funny to take these Jewish characters and put them in a rather cryptic Albee or Pinter play?" Specifically, the murky relationship between two women and a man in Harold Pinter's "Old Times" provided a blueprint for "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife." "I didn't intend it to be a genre parody," Mr. Busch said, "just a mysterious story line with very un-mysterious characters."
One thing that was clear from the beginning was that Mr. Busch was not going to play any of the female roles in the new play. "I identify with the character of Marjorie Taub, whose dilemma is that she wants to be an intellectual," Mr. Busch said. "I have the same frustrations. But I never thought for a second of playing that role. I'm at my best playing a woman and simultaneously commenting on the history of star acting, and that dual consciousness is not what this play is about."
While the play was gestating in his mind, he happened to see "Death Defying Acts" Off Broadway, which featured Linda Lavin in one-acts by Woody Allen and Elaine May. He ended up writing his play for Ms. Lavin after watching her perform. "Linda is very rare because she's a brilliant comedienne and knows every possibility of getting laughs, physically or through verbal humor," Mr. Busch said. "But she also has enormous emotional resources. She's like a Jewish Anna Magnani. The very moment you're horrified for her, you're also laughing."
For Ms. Meadow, directing the play meant grounding the comedy in emotional reality. "Charles is terribly witty and deeply funny," she said. "But his characters are also very human. This is a play about getting lost in the middle of life and finding one's way. Linda knew she had to go to the high wire for this one, and we agreed we would approach the material as if it were 'Hedda Gabler,' without worrying about being funny. But I have to tell you, it was hard sometimes in the rehearsal room stifling my laughter."
FAR from monopolizing the laughs in "The Allergist's Wife," Ms. Lavin's character has a hardy foil in her mother, Frieda. This character, Mr. Busch said, is a composite of his Aunt Belle, who is 88, and his Aunt Lillian, who died a year ago. "It's wild to hear the audience roaring with laughter at things Aunt Belle said that left us shocked and appalled," he said. "When my sister told her she was planning to take a boat trip down the Rhine, Aunt Belle said, 'I hope you can sleep on pillows filled with Jewish hair.' When she came to see the play at the Manhattan Theater Club, my sisters and I worried that she'd be upset and tried to pretend that it was a portrait of Aunt Lillian. But she recognized everything that came out of her own mouth. And she loved it. She kept saying to the audience members around her, 'That's me!' "
One bittersweet aspect of the play's success is that Aunt Lillian, who brought up Mr. Busch after his mother died when he was 7, didn't live to see it. Talking about her was the only time when Mr. Busch's steady stream of breezy conversation faltered, and tears surged to the surface. "She was a cross between Auntie Mame and the Miracle Worker, he said. "I was a completely frightened child, and she insisted that nothing should get in the way of me pursuing my creative interests. I had 10 years of very difficult struggle before I could make a living in the theater, and she was always there for me.
"It's ironic that the career I had all these years was based on my sexuality and performing in drag, which was a little too weird for a woman of her generation to embrace. And yet it was only because she made me so confident about myself that I was able to have this very odd career."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Busch, whose play "The Tale of the Allergist's Wife" opens this week on Broadway, in his Manhattan apartment. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 5); From the left, Linda Lavin, Michele Lee and Tony Roberts in the Manhattan Theater Club's "Tale of the Allergist's Wife."(Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: MICHELE LEE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



743 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 35; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1976 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO;
The Networks Barely Hear the Latin Boom Outside

BYLINE: By THELMA ADAMS; Thelma Adams is a contributing editor for Us Weekly.

 BODY:
WITH singers like Ricky Martin and Marc Anthony leading a Latin music explosion, and with Jennifer Lopez able to open one of the summer's biggest movies ("The Cell"), can a Hispanic wave on network television be far behind?
Well, yes. 
 While the networks say they are trying to embrace more Latinos -- "The general atmosphere at CBS is one of inclusion" said Josie Thomas, senior vice president for diversity -- a look at their fall schedules tells another story. Cheech Marin, the highest-profile Latino in CBS's prime-time lineup, said: "There are Hispanics on TV? That's news to me."
Mr. Marin, who plays Don Johnson's partner on "Nash Bridges," continued: "It's lonely at the top. It's like the tide. It goes in and out."
He recalled his appearance two years ago as host of the American Latino Media Arts Awards, or Alma Awards, an annual event that honors portrayals of Hispanics in film and television. "Myself, Jimmy Smits, Hector Elizondo, Michael DeLorenzo -- all leads on every network," he said. "We'd reached a high-water mark. Two years later I'm the only guy. It can't get much worse."
Of the 1,477 characters on the four major broadcast networks' prime-time series in the 1999-2000 season, only 41, or 3 percent, were Latino, according to a study by the National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts. And the new season has introduced few new recurring Hispanic characters. On ABC, the Panama-born Ruben Blades is a father confessor figure to the star, Andre Braugher, in the hospital drama "Gideon's Crossing"; CBS added Sara Ramirez to the sitcom "Welcome to New York"; and on Fox, the 19-year-old Mexican-American Jessica Alba plays a sexy superhero in "Dark Angel."
But those gains have been offset by attrition. The cancellations of CBS's "Chicago Hope," NBC's "Jesse" and "Suddenly Susan" and ABC's "Sabrina the Teenage Witch" meant the disappearance of Hector Elizondo, Bruno Campos, Nestor Carbonell and Jon Huertas from the top four networks. Jimmy Smits, Jon Seda and Benjamin Bratt had departed the previous season.
But cable is beginning to take up the slack. Channels like Lifetime and Nickelodeon are providing more roles for Hispanics, and Showtime's new one-hour drama "Resurrection Blvd." is the first television series produced, written and directed by Latinos. The show, set in East Los Angeles, traces the lives of the Santiagos, a multigenerational family.
Why have Hispanics been so scarce in Hollywood, part of a city where they make up nearly 44 percent of the population? Dennis E. Leoni, the producer and creator of "Resurrection Blvd.," identified the problem as "more cronyism than racism."
"People in Hollywood don't necessarily see Latinos as people with interesting lives," he said, "because people who buy programming see Latinos as maids, gardeners and service people."
Alex Nogales, president of the National Hispanic Media Coalition, an advocacy group, had another answer. Referring to network executives, he said: "Because they're foolish. They have let their prejudices and biases get in the way of sound economic reckoning. They've been content to believe that we all are Spanish speaking, watching Spanish-language TV and listening to Spanish-language radio. They've been content to leave the market to Univision and Telemundo."
And now, apparently, to cable, where Latinos are being portrayed as far more than "service people."
In "Resurrection Blvd.," the patriarch of the Santiago family, Roberto (Tony Plana), is a boxing-obsessed mechanic who dreams that one of his three sons (played by Michael DeLorenzo, Mauricio Mendoza and Nicholas Gonzalez) will become a contender, even though his live-in brother is permanently disabled from his fighting career. On the Lifetime cable channel, "Strong Medicine" pairs Rosa Blasi, as a Puerto Rican public health doctor, with Janine Turner, who plays a society gynecologist. In January, Lifetime will present "City Lights," an ensemble cop show set in San Francisco that will feature Lisa Vidal, a Latino, as a detective. (Both Ms. Blasi and Ms. Vidal play single mothers, as does Elizabeth Pena on "Resurrection Blvd.")
Nickelodeon has probably made the greatest strides. "The Brothers Garcia," which had its premiere this summer, is about three school-age siblings growing up in suburban San Antonio. It's a latter-day "Wonder Years," with John Leguizamo assuming the Daniel Stern role of the adult narrator recalling his youth. It has been renewed for another 13 episodes. "Dora the Explorer," an animated show for preschoolers, features a Hispanic star equally at ease in Spanish and English. And Nickelodeon will enter the tween market in January with the half-hour musical series "Taina," about a talented Puerto Rican teenager.
Nickelodeon's president, Herb Scannell, said that incorporating Hispanic characters in its shows was a logical extension of the network's mandate to "put real kids on television." Mr. Scannell, whose mother was Puerto Rican and who "ate more rice and beans as a kid than mashed potatoes," said he saw diversity as a programming opportunity.
"Part of the power in diversity is that there isn't a lot on television," he said. "When you embrace diversity, you make TV that is different from a lot of other things. We set out a net for talent that isn't Nancy Drew."
"Dora the Explorer" was originally about a bunny, but the title character evolved into a Hispanic girl. Now this fluidly bilingual program makes children aware of language without becoming, in Mr. Scannell's words, "a Berlitz tape." Because Viacom owns both Nickelodeon and CBS, "Dora" has joined the CBS Saturday morning line-up along with "Blue's Clues."
This broadening of Hispanic representation is another example of how cable has opened up television to those who have been excluded by the networks, "not necessarily by intent or design but by a system that focused on the mass," said Tim Brooks, a senior vice president at Lifetime and co-author of "The Complete Directory to Prime Time Network and Cable TV Shows."
Mr. Nogales, of the Hispanic Media Coalition, agrees. "Cable has broken barriers that broadcasting has been very hesitant to even touch," he said. "Cable is more segmented, is more targeted. So they've got it all over broadcast, who wants to believe that they have to appeal to everyone.
"It's a small beginning and a beginning that's been long in coming, and it's very little. We deserve a lot more."
The numbers support Mr. Nogales's claim. Composing 12 percent of the population, Hispanics are the fastest-growing minority in the United States, having risen to 32 million from 23 million in a decade. They are expected to overtake African-Americans as the largest minority in the near future. From 1993 to 1999, the number of Latinos in households with televisions grew 27 percent, to 28.3 million. Hispanics' annual buying power should top $440 billion this year, according to federal government estimates.
"In other words," Mr. Nogales said, "a lot of soap. People in the broadcast industry are not doing their jobs by not targeting this segment."
Josie Thomas's post at CBS as vice president for diversity was created last spring as a result of a memorandum of understanding between the network and a coalition of ethnic advocacy groups, including the National Latino Media Council, which is based in Los Angeles. The memorandum grew out of the broadcast networks' earlier agreements with the N.A.A.C.P. to seek ways to promote diversity in hiring and programming. Ms. Thomas, a CBS veteran who had been in the business affairs department and had had no specific experience in diversity matters, said, "We recognize there's a need for significant improvement."
Historically, Hispanics have been television's near-silent minority. "Hispanics have fared even worse than African-Americans in terms of representation," said Mr. Brooks, of Lifetime. As a result, said Mr. Nogales, Hispanics have had little control over how they have been portrayed.
"The dialogue is pretty black and white and doesn't include brown," he said. "That doesn't mean that we are envious of the strides that African-Americans have made. You know they have a small slice of the pie; they're very deserving of that slice. But so are we. We need our slice of the pie."
Early representations of Latinos tended to be comic stereotypes. On "The Jack Benny Show," Mel Blanc had a recurring bit as Cy, who called himself "Si" -- the whole routine resting on confusion about the pronunciation of a Spanish word. Bill Dana created Jose Jiminez, the Mexican immigrant bellhop. Born on "The Steve Allen Show," the character earned his own NBC program ("The Bill Dana Show") from 1963 to 1965.
ABC telecast the swashbuckler "Zorro," starring the non-Hispanic actor Guy Williams, from 1957 to 1959. Ron Simon, a curator at the Museum of Television and Radio in Manhattan, said the series was "one of the most significant of early shows."
"It defined Hispanics to the first generation of TV watchers, and especially children," he said.
A more significant show was never shown by a network. "The Cisco Kid," starring Duncan Renaldo and the Hispanic actor Leo Carrillo, was a popular syndicated western about a hard-riding Mexican adventurer and his sidekick and ran for 156 episodes from 1950 to 1955. The Mexican government consulted on the show with the goal of creating a positive ethnic role model.
Desi Arnaz remains television's most famous Hispanic. Before the debut of "I Love Lucy" in 1951, CBS resisted casting the Cuban crooner opposite his wife, Lucille Ball, but she insisted. Mr. Simon said: "It's very odd for the defining sitcom to have a Hispanic co-star. It was a great formula, the zany housewife playing off the Hispanic straight man. So much of the comedy came from the cultural differences in that relationship."
NEVERTHELESS, an industry that thrives on copycatting never recycled that formula. NBC's mid-1970's hit "Chico and the Man," which paired Jack Albertson and Freddie Prinze as an Anglo and a Chicano co-existing in East Los Angeles, came closest. Lesser known was the short-lived series "a.k.a. Pablo" starring Paul Rodriguez. In the late 80's and 90's came breakthroughs by actors in ensemble casts, like Mr. Smits in "L.A. Law" and Mr. Bratt in "Law and Order."
"Now you have 'Resurrection Blvd.,' " said Mr. Blades. "But I don't see the situation changing in a way where I would say it's over, the fever has receded."
"The fear with which we're seen, seen as a culture that survived and resists assimilation," persists, he said. "Some people find it very threatening and the choice has been to ignore us. Right now here in Los Angeles, there are more Latinos than any other group. For some people that is very disturbing. Basically we have to try and see if we can work out this fear."
Mr. Blades, a Grammy Award winning musician who ran for president of Panama in 1994 and finished third, added: "Many years ago somebody suggested that in order to get better roles in films, I should lose my accent. I don't think it's necessary for a person to lose or gain an accent. That's insulting. We're talking about a cultural background; you're not talking about race. And that is one of the things that has been more threatening in explaining why we're nowhere to be seen for the most part."
At stake is more than grabbing a bigger slice of the pie. It is a struggle for self-determination. Mr. Nogales said: "When I was growing up, TV was almost nonexistent. The family told me who I was, what I was and what my worth was. Now it's very electronic. TV has become a member of our family, and it tells us now who we are, what we are and what we're worth. If you're excluded from creating those images, then the images are going to be made by other people that have no love or knowledge of what we are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Growing up suburban and Latino: Bobby Gonzalez, left, Jeffery Licon and Alvin Alvarez in the title roles of "The Garcia Brothers" on Nickelodeon. (Janet Van Ham/Nickelodeon)(pg. 35); Ruth Livier, left, and Elizabeth Pena in "Resurrection Boulevard." (Holly Stein/Showtime)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NETWORK TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MUSIC (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (73%); JESSICA ALBA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



744 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 21; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 10-29-00;
Pro Pharma

BYLINE: By Andrew Sullivan; Andrew Sullivan, a contributing writer to the magazine, has a new Web site, www.andrewsullivan.com.

 BODY:
Here's an unfashionable romance: I love America's pharmaceutical companies. As a slogan, "Better Living Through Pharmaceuticals" still has a campy, futuristic ring to it, but for me, at least, there's nothing sci-fi about it. Because I have H.I.V., I swallow around 800 pills of prescription drugs a month and around 400 extra pills -- vitamins, antidiarrheic, antinausea pills and the like -- to contain the side effects of the first 800. That's close to 15,000 pills a year. When I first tested positive, I had a dream that I was walking down the street shaking like a baby's rattle because there were so many pills inside me. Eight years later, that shaking has become white noise. I asked my pharmacist the other day to tote up the annual bill (which my insurance mercifully pays): $15,600, easily more than I pay separately for housing, food, travel or clothes.
I'm an extreme case -- along with many others now living relatively normally with chronic illnesses -- but I'm not completely atypical. Over the last decade, as new and better prescription drugs have become our primary form of health care, our common spending on them has soared. In 1999 alone, according to a study conducted by an independent consulting group, overall expenditure on prescription drugs in America rose by 19 percent -- but only 4 percent of that was because of increased prices. We're simply taking advantage of living in the 21st century and medicating ourselves to the gills. 
 This is our country on drugs. You can bash the "big pharmaceutical companies" all you want, but their products are among the most popular around. We can now treat arthritis, balding, impotence, depression, obesity, not to speak of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, in ways that were, only recently, a matter of science fiction. In the last 10 years, with the possible exception of information technology, no industry has more thoroughly transformed our lives. Calculating the economic benefits of this is impossible -- but think of the new antidepressants alone. If you know one person whose life has been overhauled by a stabler supply of serotonin, the "happy" chemical in our brain, then imagine the impact multiplied by millions. Or consider protease inhibitors. Thousands of H.I.V.-positive people are now contributing to the economy who might, without the drugs, be dead, sick or draining resources in hospital care. Perhaps it takes seeing the transformation in your own life to fully appreciate what drugs can do for the society as a whole.
But what is our response to this? We complain about the price. According to polls, the cost of medicine is one of the hottest issues in this election. Vice President Al Gore has warned of price gouging by "powerful forces." In a move intended to lower drug costs at home, Congress has passed a bill that will let anyone reimport American prescription drugs sold more cheaply overseas. Both major candidates have pledged to do something to subsidize or pay for medicines under Medicare. Whoever wins the election, the federal government's bargaining power with major drug companies is almost certainly going to be ratcheted up, forcing prices -- and profits -- down.
What's not to like? Well, as with many other debates in this election, no one wants to point out that there's a trade-off. It would be wonderful if we could make the newest drugs affordable for anyone who needs them and keep the lifesaving research going. But cut prices and you cut profits. Cut profits and you cut research and development. Cut research and you slow new drug innovation. You may get cheaper and more widely available drugs in the short term, but you'll also get worse drugs in the long term, and risk ending the greatest era in research in memory. Don't big pharmaceuticals make enough money to take a hit? Sure, their profitability is slightly higher than some other industries -- but that barely offsets the unique risks the drug industry has to take. Of more than 5,000 potential medicines tested at some point in the lab, on average only 3 get into clinical trials, and only 1 is approved for patient use. In all, only 30 percent of drugs make enough money to recoup the cost of their own research, and the average time it took to bring a new drug to market in the 1990's was close to 15 years, at an average cost, according to Boston Consulting Group, of $500 million.
The only way these risks will be run is if the payoff is big enough. Slap on de facto price controls, squeeze profits to get more short-term access for more people -- and you'll have one sure result. Investment for research will dry up, innovation will slow down and the great gains of the last decade will recede into history. Those gains are not just for the wealthy. Once patents run out and generics compete, the pricey innovations we now encourage lead to cheaper, better drugs for everyone. This is particularly true for the small, high-risk bio-tech companies that have pioneered some of the most substantial breakthroughs of the last few years.
The private sector is now responsible for more than 70 percent of all the pharmaceutical research in this country -- and that share is growing. Whether we like it or not, these private entities have our lives in their hands. And we can either be grown-ups and acknowledge this or be infantile and scapegoat them. They're not "powerful forces," penalizing America's "working families." They're entrepreneurs trying to make money by saving lives. By and large, they succeed in both. Every morning I wake up and feel fine, I'm thankful that they do.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The Void" (detail) by Damien Hirst (Gagosian Gallery and Mike Parsons, Science LTD.)
 
Chart: "More than a spoonful of sugar"
U.S. retail prescription sales, in billions of dollars
1991 -- 42.7
1992 -- 47.1
1993 -- 50.4
1994 -- 56.3
1995 -- 63.4
1996 -- 72.1
1997 -- 82.9
1998 -- 93.5
1999 -- 111.3
 Source: Prescription Audit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GALT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GALECTIN THERAPEUTICS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); ARTHRITIS (76%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (73%); ANTIVIRALS (73%); CANCER (73%); DEPRESSION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); OBESITY (67%); HEART DISEASE (66%); HOSPITALS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); DIABETES (62%); 

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (59%); AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



745 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Living, Working and Playing Near the Train Station

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
A THREE-ACRE lot across Lafayette Avenue from the train station in Morristown that has long been used for parking has become an increasingly rare commodity: a buildable site at the edge of the community's reviving central business district.
To realize its potential, New Jersey Transit, which owns the property and is the overseer of the state's mass transit system, earlier this month selected a partnership between Roseland Property Company of Short Hills and Woodmont Properties of Parsippany to develop the site for apartments, parking and stores. 
 Called Lafayette Commons, the $35 million project is to contain 226 rental units and 8,000 square feet of stores as well as parking for 780 cars. The architecture of the project, to be built over the next two and a half years, will blend with that of the buildings downtown as well as with the historic 1915 Renaissance Revival train station, which the developers will improve.
Lafayette Commons is part of New Jersey's year-old transit village program administered by the state's Department of Transportation and the autonomous transit agency. The program seeks to attract private investment and spur mixed-use development within walking distance of transit hubs, many of which are often at the core of downtowns.
Beyond Morristown, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman selected four other towns for transit village projects, which are in various stages of development near rail stations in Rutherford, South Orange and South Amboy and a bus depot in Pleasantville. All four of these projects are rising or will rise on privately owned land.
Mark W. Gordon, senior director of real estate and economic development at the transit agency, said towns are chosen for the program where local leaders support transit friendly projects and are already involved in or are willing to proceed with such projects. He said the projects also must be within a quarter of a mile of the transit hub so that "that people can live, work and recreate within walking distance of mass transportation." Other towns will be named to the program within the next six months, Mr. Gordon said.
There have been earlier efforts by New Jersey Transit to encourage development around its stations. This program brings together 10 state agencies to help implement the projects, said James Weinstein, who is the commissioner of the Department of Transportation and chairman of New Jersey Transit. Involving the state agencies may help speed the approval process, Mr. Weinstein said.
Under the program, technical assistance is also made available to the participating towns, which are also given priority consideration for certain state and federal financing and grants. In the year since the program started, the State Transportation Department has awarded almost $3 million to the five communities, according to the department.
THE program also reflects the state's efforts to respond to the growing anti-sprawl sentiments of residents in the last few years. Among those efforts is Governor Whitman's program to buy a million acres of open space in the next decade. And it conforms with the State Development and Redevelopment Plan, which encourages growth in areas where roads, utilities and mass transit are in place and discourages it in less developed area.
Developers and towns involved in the program agree with its aims. But some officials and developers said they were unsure of how much it had helped since a pool of specific money is not set aside for the communities to tap. They also said having so many agencies involved could increase, not decrease, governmental red tape.
Stressing the need for the program, Mr. Weinstein said: "We are at a point when we don't have the ability to add three more lanes to highways, so we have to look at ways to better capitalize mass transit. This program takes advantage of the inroads already made in the state's transit system."
Among the transit projects Mr. Weinstein expects to benefit through increased ridership encouraged by the transit village program is the Secaucus Transfer, which will link 11 of New Jersey's 12 commuter rail lines and allow passengers to transfer to trains for direct service to Pennsylvania Station. In doing so, Manhattan-bound commuters will bypass Hoboken, where they now must change to PATH trains, and shave up to 30 minutes from their commute. When completed in 2002, the project will increase the number of commuters using the historic 1898 Rutherford station, which is undergoing a renovation costing more than $1 million.
The program also hopes to enhance ridership of Midtown Direct, a four-year-old express rail service from towns like South Orange and Morristown that also bypasses Hoboken and goes directly into Penn Station.
In South Orange, local officials have been working with New Jersey Transit for five years on projects around the 1916 train station as part of a plan to revive the village's 12-block business district. Among them is the rehabilitation of a string of stores adjoining the Sloane Street Station. The transit agency also built a 275-car parking lot and sold part of the property to South Orange on which to build a planned $9 million arts center.
That investment has led to a second round of projects, including the development of more than 200 residences on several downtown parcels, said John O. Gross, South Orange's administrator. "Without a doubt," he added, "our relationship with New Jersey Transit was instrumental in the downtown's revival."
In Rutherford, a four-story building for the Boiling Spring Savings Bank recently opened on a long-dormant two-acre bank-owned parcel a block and a half from the train station. It is the first phase of a larger project, planned several years ago, that will include 48 rentals, more than 18,000 square feet of medical office space, a day care center and a 510-car garage with 160 spaces for commuters. Construction on those components are to start by the end of the year.
The project, on Orient Way, is at a gateway to the borough and is the cornerstone in its downtown revitalization, said Robert Gorman, Rutherford's administrator. "Being designated a transit village helps a little and we certainly would not turn our back on it," he said, adding that putting more financial resources behind the program would strengthen it.
For the latest project in Morristown, local officials rezoned the parking lot site for its transformation into a transit village, enabling New Jersey Transit to put together a request for proposals to developers that could complement the new zoning. The transit agency will lease the site for 49 years with renewal options to the joint venture between Roseland and Woodmont, whose Lafayette Commons proposal was selected over four others.
THERE are concerns the project will increase traffic in the area, six blocks from Morristown's historic center green. Still, Mayor John J. DeLaney said the project "will bring people, life and vitality to the area and is part of the continued revitalization" of the central business district.
For the developers, having the project, which still must receive its local approvals, be part of the transit program "will be helpful and expedite the pathway to the approvals," said Carl Goldberg, a partner at Roseland. He said the partners also got involved with the project because of Morristown's reviving downtown and its strong rental market.
Construction of Lafayette Commons, which is being designed by the Hillier Group of Princeton, is to start by the end of 2001 and take 14 months. The 226 one- to three-bedroom units with 800 to 1,350 square feet will be contained mostly in the upper floors of three buildings, each four stories high. The ground floors of the buildings, which will sit atop a parking garage, will be for the retail shops.
There will also 10 town-house style rentals on Lafayette Avenue to hide the parking garage and provide a streetscape in keeping with those nearby, Mr. Goldberg said. Also, the design of all the buildings will blend with neighboring structures and incorporate some architectural elements found in them as well as in the historic train station across the street. Monthly rents have not yet been set.
Because the rentals will be so close to the station and adjacent to the eastbound passenger platform, Mr. Goldberg said, "Special windows, insulation, landscaping and construction techniques will be used to buffer the housing from a visual and sound perspective from the trains."
That will help broaden the market of potential renters for the units, said Eric Witmondt, a principal of Woodmont. He said they included young single and married professionals living in the area and working in Manhattan as well as New Yorkers looking for lower rents and a suburban alternative to Manhattan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, housing planned for Morristown. Above, the Boiling Spring Savings Bank building in Rutherford. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Tritec)
 
Map showing the location of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); APPROVALS (66%); GOVERNORS (56%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



746 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Substantial Office Space Being Added to the Market

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the the first building at the 33-acre Reckson Executive Park under construction along the Long Island Expressway just west of Route 110 in Melville will have its official opening in December, no tenants have yet signed leases for its 277,000 square feet of space.
But Mitchell Rechler, the co-chief operating officer of the publicly held Reckson Associates Realty Corporation in Melville, the developer of the 554,162-square-foot project, which ultimately will have twin buildings, did not sound worried. 
 "This is not a disappointment," he said. "We normally anticipate not signing leases before a building is completed because historically on Long Island space is not leased until people can see a finished product. This has nothing to do with the market."
At a time when financial markets are swinging and some companies are reporting disappointing earnings, substantial new space is flowing into the Long Island office market.
In addition to Reckson Executive Park, Reckson has 170,000 square feet available at the Melville Technology Center at 50 Marcus Drive in Melville. The project, which is a renovation of an industrial building to Class A offices --that is, well located office space with quality amenities -- opened earlier this month. Several brokers hinted that a major high-technology company was interested in taking the entire building, but no lease has yet been signed.
The Tritec Real Estate Company of East Setauket, in partnership with Greenfield Partners of Westport, Conn., held a ground-breaking earlier this month of the first phase of a 408,000-square-foot complex, 100 Motor Parkway, to be built on 20 acres at Exit 53 of the Long Island Expressway in Hauppauge. The building will have 170,000 square feet of offices and 60,000 square feet of meeting rooms and other tenant amenities.
Several major conversions of other industrial buildings to Class A space are also under way in the Route 110 corridor.
Long Island's diverse economy, its concentration of high-tech companies and its low vacancy rates are expected to keep the office market stable.
Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Commack-based Long Island Association, a leading regional business group, said that she saw "some risk in all this space coming on line in a short period of time," but that on the plus side Long Island has seen very little new office construction in the last decade because of the reluctance of banks to lend. "So this doesn't mean the new space won't be absorbed," she said.
"The economy is topping out and poised for slower growth ahead and that is what the stock market is telling us," she said. "But even if we have a recession -- and it is not clear that we will -- Long Island has a base of technology that will act as a buffer. Those technologies are needed in bad times as well as in good times."
The companies include Computer Associates International of Islandia, a designer and developer of computer software products, with 21,000 employees; the Cablevision Systems Corporation of Bethpage, one of the nation's leading telecommunications and entertainment companies, with almost 14,000 employees; Arrow Electronics of Melville, a distributor of electronic components and computer products to industrial and commercial customers, with more than 11,200 employees: and Symbol Technologies, a world leader in portable data terminals and bar code scanners, with almost 4,000 employees.
"These are companies that are somewhat insulated from what's happening in the stock market because they are in large markets, with extensive customer bases and evolving new products for customers that rely on them," said Gus P. Nuzzolese, a senior managing director at Sutton & Edwards, a Lake Success brokerage.
Most brokers agree with Raymond A. Ruiz, a vice president at the Garden City office of CB Richard Ellis, the international brokerage, that the influx of new space will, in fact, have a positive effect on the office market. "New construction and redevelopment projects are bringing equilibrium back to a marketplace where tenants were having a very difficult time securing space and landlords were having an equally difficult time trying to accommodate them, especially their existing tenants," he said.
Not counting the new buildings coming on line, vacancies for Class A buildings in both Nassau and Suffolk Counties are at historic lows. Corporate mergers among large financial institutions could have left large blocks of space in existing buildings lingering on the market, but companies whose businesses were growing rushed to fill it, resulting in a 350,000-square-foot net absorption in this year's first nine months. In the same period last year, the net absorption was 307,000 square feet.
"Chase Manhattan Bank left 700,000 square feet and a couple of thousand jobs behind in Jericho," said Paul F. Amoruso, managing partner of Oxford & Simpson, commercial brokers in Jericho. "But before the lights were out, Cablevision occupied both buildings."
THE commercial brokerage firm Cushman & Wakefield of Long Island, which is based in Melville, reported that in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, the direct office vacancy rate -- space available directly from landlords and not including subleases -- was 4.4 percent, the second lowest on record and only slightly higher than the 4.1 percent low reached the year before. The vacancy rate including sublease space stood at 5.9 percent. Annual direct asking rents at the end of the third quarter had risen to $28.88 per square foot from $28.01 per square foot a year earlier. Long Island has 12.8 million square feet of Class A office space, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
"The slowing economy is going to affect everyone, but the good news is we don't have a tremendous amount of space," said Kenneth M. Krasnow, regional managing director of Cushman & Wakefield's Long Island division, which also encompasses Connecticut. "We don't see companies saying, 'Well, maybe we don't need more space.' They are still thinking about where to go because of the growth of their business."
An internal study recently conducted by Insignia/ESG, an international brokerage that has a Syosset office, showed that there was enough demand and anticipated demand based on planned expansions to fill double the space now on the market, said Martin L. Lomazow, a senior managing director at the brokerage company, which is handling the leasing at the Tritec building.
Earlier this year, space at Nassau's first speculative office building in a decade was readily absorbed. When the Tilles Companies of Woodbury completed its 100,000-square-foot 88 Froelich Farm Boulevard building in February, it had no signed leases. But now all but 8,000 square feet are rented "and we have someone about to sign a lease on it," said Roger Tilles, a principal of the company with his brother, Peter.
Over all, the company, which owns three million square feet of office space on Long Island, only has 25,000 square feet vacant, for which it is talking with users wanting 200,000 square feet, Mr. Tilles said. "So we have eight times the amount of users than we have space," he said.
Nevertheless, a 525,000-square-foot office park in Melville just west of the intersection of the Long Island Expressway and Route 110 for which the Tilles Companies has approvals will not be started until leases for most of the space are signed, Mr. Tilles said. "I would do 100,000 square feet on spec today, but not 525,000 square feet," he said.
Reckson Executive Park and 100 Motor Parkway both occupy highly visible sites along the Long Island Expressway. The Reckson building, four stories high, was designed internally by the company's architectural staff. The Tritec building is six stories high, making it one of the tallest in Suffolk. The architects are Mojo Stumer Architects of Roslyn and the Baldassano Architectural Group of Ronkonkoma.
Both buildings are designed with sophisticated technology and backup systems, and both represent the new direction Suffolk is taking in bringing high-quality office space in very large complexes far east of the traditional office hubs of Lake Success, Mitchel Field and Jericho.
Rents in the two buildings are also breaking new ground for Hauppauge and Melville, with asking rents at 100 Motor Parkway scheduled to go from $26 to $27.50 a square foot by the end of the year, and asking rents at the Reckson building at $32 a square foot. Those prices do not include electricity costs of $2.25 a square foot. The average rent for Class A space in the Hauppauge area, according to Cushman & Wakefield, is $25.32 a square foot, including electric, and in Melville it is $28.50 a square foot with electricity.
If anything, the softening market could bring downward pressure on rents but not a downturn in demand, said Mr. Krasnow, the regional manager of Cushman & Wakefield. "The envelope will not continue to be pushed in terms of escalating prices," he said.
Nevertheless, brokers say, for the immediate future it is likely to remain a landlord's market.
When the economy turned soft in the 1980's, Long Island's office inventory had just undergone an unusual growth spurt, said Bruce Nelson, a vice president of the investment property group at CB Richard Ellis in Garden City. "What really hurt us was going from 20 million square feet to 35 million square feet mostly between 1984 and 1988, and that kind of increase creates a lot of problems no matter what state the economy is in," he said. "Today, we are looking at a 3 to 5 percent increase, and that's healthy growth."
Mr. Amoruso of Oxford & Simpson added: "Financing wasn't available for new construction and that's the real reason we won't have the real estate crisis we had before." "Banks lost so much in the 1980's that they avoided lending, and what has happened is they have managed to save developers from themselves."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: First building of Reckson Executive Park is under construction in Melville along Long Island Expressway. No tenants have been signed. (Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Long Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (72%); MELVILLE TECHNOLOGY CENTER (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: MELVILLE TECHNOLOGY CENTER (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



747 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Research Park Leads a Comeback in Philadelphia

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
ANGELIQUE XOCHIME IRVIN did not have to look far for a site for her fledgling software development company when it came time for her to receive her M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School last May.
Ms. Irvin, a 34-year-old entrepreneur, decided to stay in the neighborhood. Her choice for a business home is a new building in the 17-acre University City Science Center research park in West Philadelphia, adjacent to both Penn and Drexel University. The $22 million building -- named the Port of Technology -- at 37th and Market streets offered Ms. Irvin exactly the kind of high-tech amenities she wanted. 
 And Ms. Irvin was exactly the kind of so-called "new economy" tenant the Science Center envisioned when it decided to put up the city's first speculative office building since 1992.
"Philadelphia is trying to hold on to its brain power," said Roger McManimon, a director in the Philadelphia office of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services company. "We don't want them going to California or Boston."
Unlike Boston's booming real-estate market, Philadelphia stalled during the 1990's as major businesses, including the CoreStates Financial Corporation and Conrail Inc., were swallowed up or dismantled. Such losses dumped hundreds of thousands of square feet on the market. While rental rates in Boston are now as high as $85 a square foot a year, according to Mark Roth, senior director at Cushman & Wakefield's Boston office, the rate for top tier buildings in Philadelphia is $32.50 a square foot.
"Basically, we've climbed back up to where we were in the mid- to late-1980's," said Paul G. Garvey, senior director of Cushman's Philadelphia office.
But the city is rebounding, as evidenced by the leasing activity at the Port of Technology, Mr. Garvey said. The building was 90 percent leased by the time construction was completed in July.
What attracted Ms. Irvin was the building's incubator program. It provides her company, Coviant Inc., which develops software for the fiber-optics market, with access to capital, business contacts and mentoring services. A self-described "techie nerd," Ms. Irvin said she was also impressed with the building's access to "the latest and greatest in fiber to the desktop."
Like many landlords today, the Science Center wants to showcase the fiber in its walls, not its carpet. Real estate agents now pitch buildings as having "robust riser cores," which mean they have large raceways to carry wiring. The brochure phrase "plug and play," is to let tenants know they can be in the game merely by showing up with phones and computers.
To create a smart building, the Science Center enlisted the help of Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose, Calif. The Port of Technology was built with enough "dark" -- unused -- fiber-optic cable to handle the hungriest bandwidth users, like multimedia Internet broadcasting companies. Bandwidth determines how much data can be sent and received at any time. The building also houses a "co-location provider," Meridian Telesis L.L.C., where internet-based and telecommunications businesses can lease space for their computers and fiber optic cable equipment. These centers, also known as "carrier hotels," "server farms" and "cyber centers" offer customers around-the-clock security, environmental controls and protection against power failure for their communications equipment.
The 144,000-square-foot, eight-story building was outfitted with cutting-edge telephony -- voice-over-I.P. (Internet protocol) -- so tenants can run voice calls on a data network. It is more cost-effective and easier to manage than traditional switch-based telephone networks.
The project's architects, Ueland, Junker, McCauley & Nicholson of Philadelphia, designed the building with dual power service and space for emergency generators.
"I couldn't do what I'm doing competitively in another building," said Ms. Irvin. And she can also take her 13-year-old Norwegian elkhound, Brokk, to the office.
The Science Center's campus is run by a nonprofit organization made up of 30 academic and scientific institutions interested in creating regional wealth. The campus is one of the nation's largest urban research parks, running from 34th to 38th Streets along Market Street. It houses nearly 200 technology and science-related operations that employ nearly 7,000 people.
When it was founded in 1963, the Science Center was one of the first city research campuses in the world. It grew out of a larger initiative spearheaded in the late 1950's by the University of Pennsylvania under Gaylord P. Harnwell, who was its president at the time. The project was an attempt by academic and medical communities to revitalize declining West Philadelphia neighborhoods.
IN the 19th century, the section of West Philadelphia overlooking the Schuylkill that includes the university was home to some of Philadelphia's best families. But by the early 1900's, smokestacks were the backdrop for some photos of Penn buildings.
In 1920, the university considered a proposal to move 22 miles west to a 175-acre estate near Valley Forge National Historical Park, according to a university history co-authored by Martin Meyerson, president emeritus of Penn.
After decades of discussion, trustees decided in the 1950's that the university had an important role to play in revitalizing the neighborhood. But urban renewal plans soon angered residents. The Science Center project meant that hundreds of buildings would be demolished and more than 1,000 people displaced. Students took up the cause in 1969, staging a sit-in at Penn's College Hall, where the university's administrative offices are located, to protest displacement of black residents. They also wanted a halt to military research at the park.
But for young people involved with the Science Center now, that is ancient history.
"It was a different time -- an anti-establishment time," said Gregg W. Garnick, 36, executive director of the incubator program.
Today, under the leadership of Jill R. Felix, the Science Center appears to be living up to the dream of its creators. The center plans to expand to 3.6 million square feet from 2 million square feet in the next decade. The master plan calls for the number of buildings to grow to 18 from the current 14. Each new building site is a Keystone Opportunity Zone, where nearly all city and state taxes are waived until December 2010.
Ms. Felix, who developed the Great Valley Corporate Center in Malvern, Pa., while with Liberty Property Trust (formerly Rouse & Associates), believes the Science Center has a competitive edge because there are 100,000 professors, students and other professionals within walking distance of the park. "In today's world, the biggest challenge is attracting and retaining people," Ms. Felix said.
The City of Philadelphia supported the campus's recent expansion by giving $1 million for Port of Technology's technology infrastructure. Townsend Capital L.L.C., a private real estate investment firm based in Towson, Md., is a partner in the building, mainly providing some financing.
Two of the building's floors have been designated as incubator space. One entire floor is equipped with wet labs, reinforced floors and vent stacks for early-stage life sciences companies. The other, where Ms. Irvin has her company, is for information technology start-ups. It consists of one huge open room with ultramodern modular furniture, giving the appearance of one company, even though there are in fact several startups there.
The other six floors are being leased to more-established technology companies at $23 a square foot a year. CTNY of New York City, which develops software to allow businesses to gain access to data by wireless technologies, took a full floor.
Fledgling companies like Ms. Irvin's Coviant, which has five full-time employees and 10 workers on a contract basis, have to be approved by Port of Technology Inc., a for-profit subsidiary of the Science Center.
Instead of paying rent, the tenants pay a monthly fee of $450 per workstation. In return, they are given access to office equipment, a break room, conference rooms and an on-site support team that includes a lawyer. The incubator companies give the Science Center a 5 percent equity stake in their businesses.
Twenty information technology and biotechnology companies are in the incubator program. The Science Center has another subsidiary raising a pool of $60 million to invest in tenant companies in amounts of $500,000 to $1 million.
"The lure of the building is that it's an urban location, close to public transportation," said James Venturi, chief executive of CTNY. "We didn't want to be in a suburban park -- for our culture, it's not an option."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Port of Technology at 37th and Market Streets in Philadelphia includes two floors of incubator space for fledgling companies. The building is one of 14 in the University City Science Center research park. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (67%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONRAIL INC (67%); WELLS FARGO & CO (67%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%); DREXEL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (72%); LEASING INDUSTRY (70%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); 

PERSON: ANGELIQUE XOCHIME IRVIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



748 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2416 words

HEADLINE: Raising the Neighborhood;
A Few Years Into Its Ambitious Plan, Trinity College Sees Results

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
IT is a street parallel to the playing fields at Trinity College, a corner of the now handsome block that is home to the neighborhood's four newest schools, where Eddie Perez illustrates the progress of an ambitious plan to reinvent a poor neighborhood in the poorest city in the state.
"Four years ago, there was a gang assassination at 2:30 in the afternoon, during a football game," said Mr. Perez, the president of the Southside Institutions Neighborhood Alliance, as he points across the block from the new $110 million school buildings. "Today there are kids in there going to school and it's a corner of hope." 
 There is also a job training center, a Boys and Girls Club and a social service agency, all created in the last three years as Trinity attempts to raise the neighborhood where the college sits. The area, called Barry Square, was once known for its drugs, prostitution and robberies. Now it has become a symbol of renewal and to what one college can do for its community.
"The seeds were there before Evan came," Mr. Perez said, referring to Evan S. Dobelle who was named president of the college in 1995. "But everyone was thinking small. There was no way we thought of building schools. Evan thought big."
The newly hired Mr. Dobelle was able to persuade the trustees of the college and ultimately, (with the help of several politicians, including Kevin Sullivan, the State Senate president pro-tem and an employee of Trinity), the state legislature to back a $175 million plan to improve a 15-block area that included the Barry Square and Frog Hollow neighborhoods with new schools, housing, jobs, recreation and social services.
In addition, he called on his neighbors who were partners in the neighborhood alliance: Hartford Hospital, the Institute of Living, Connecticut Children's Medical Center and Connecticut Public Television and Radio. The city's corporations were also tapped for support. Aetna and the Loctite Corporation gave the first $2 million. The Kellogg Corporation gave a $5.1 million grant to Trinity to support its plans. Hartford Steam Boiler, Fleet, People's and Bank of Boston also contributed.
"If you're a firefighter or a teacher, you can live here and not have to worry about not being able to afford a private school," said Mr. Dobelle, who is 55 and brought a unique background of politics (mayor of Pittsfield, Mass. and chief of protocol in the Carter administration) and education ( he was president of two community colleges).
Those involved in the project attribute its success to pairing two seemingly disparate groups: the power brokers and the people movers. It was the legislature and the corporations that found the money to buy real estate but in at least one case it was knowing the father of one homeowner because he played dominoes with Eddie Perez's uncle that clinched the sale. The Hartford Areas Rally Together Job Center is funded by a pastiche of programs, but it functions because its director, Ana Natal, knows somebody who knows somebody who will hire a woman who has never filled out a resume, but has children to support.
This blend pleases Mr. Dobelle, but he would like to see the plan replicated elsewhere. In a recent interview in his office, he said that a colleague from Williams College just phoned and told him the neighborhood plan was the talk of a recent conference.
"I said, 'Great! Is anyone else doing it?' " The answer was, just one other college, the University of Southern California.
"We wanted the whole community to buy into the idea that their kids can be anything they want," he said. The plan meshed with the college's promotion of community service; some 1,400 of the 1,800 students at the college volunteer, Mr. Dobelle said. Since Mr. Dobelle's arrival on campus, applications to Trinity have increased 77 percent, according to his staff.
The most expensive and ambitious portion of the plan is complete: four public schools arranged around a central green on 16 acres between Broad and Washington streets, next door to the Trinity campus. They are known collectively as "The Learning Corridor." Construction began in 1998 on the $110-milion buildings and the schools opened last month to 800 students. These include: a Montessori school for pre-kindergarten through fifth grade; a city magnet middle school for grades six through eight; a math and science academy, and an arts academy.
The 516,000 square feet of buildings will ultimately serve 1,500 students. The complex also includes a 632-seat community theater. On the first floor beneath the parking garage, retail spaces are for rent. The project partners hope these spaces will house small, community-based businesses. The project was funded by $94 million of state money with neighborhood alliance partners and the city contributing $10.5 million and $6.3 million, respectively.
The Montessori Magnet School is the only public Montessori school in Connecticut and one of just 15 public ones in the nation. The 230 students are grouped by ages rather than grade. Emphasis is placed on experiential learning, including practical life skills and a music program that starts 95 percent of the students in violin at age 5. The school will ultimately serve up to 350 children. It is state-funded and operated by the Connecticut Region Education Council, as are the two high schools.
Each classroom on the first floor of the Montessori school opens to the courtyard, a whimsical space that includes a stream where children can control water flow and gardens.
About half of the children at the school come from Hartford, with 25 percent of those from the neighborhood. The rest hail from 20 participating school districts. A lottery system was used; there were more than 200 applications for the 48 places in the 3- to 5-year-old classes and phone calls keep coming, said Timothy Nee, the principal.
Tonya Dorman, a third-year law student at the University of Connecticut who lives in Windsor and works as a law clerk in Hartford, enrolled her son, Rochayne, 3, because she liked the school's intellectual orientation for pre-schoolers.
"I'm West Indian and it is the closest I could get to the education I received as a child in Jamaica, where I learned to read at 2," she said.
Just across the green is the Hartford Middle Magnet School where doors opened in September to a class of 200 sixth graders, all but 10 from the neighborhood school district. Over the next two years, 400 more seventh and eighth graders will be added. It was built with $27 million of city and state money and $1 million from the neighborhood alliance.
The school emphasizes science, math and the arts. Its principal, James Longo, said the ultimate goal is for the school to be an inter-district magnet. Parents' night, Mr. Longo said, was a full house. The school's library will be stocked in the coming weeks and its swimming pool open.
The middle school is steps away from the Greater Hartford Academy of Mathematics and Science. Built to serve 300 high school students from around the state, it was funded by $46 million of state bonds and donations.
As of September, 148 students from 13 public school districts enrolled in either morning or afternoon math and science classes taught by teachers and researchers and faculty mentors from Trinity College, the University of Connecticut Health Center and the University of Hartford. Among the offerings are courses in robotics and molecular genetics. There is a cell culture laboratory and a computer controlled green house. Jeffrey Osborne, the school director, said "there are no quotas" at the academy. Thirty-two percent of the students are from Hartford. There are more girls than boys, more minorities than whites.
At the Greater Hartford Academy of the Arts next door, students audition or submit portfolios for admission.
Until September, the arts academy was housed for about 12 years in a former funeral home and bar on Wethersfield Avenue in Hartford. Kim Stroud, the school's managing director, said student dancers were reluctant to leap with abandon since the ceilings were so low. The new performance spaces are very different, with many windows and soaring ceilings. Musicians work in modern recording studios. Writers listen to visiting poets while perched on upholstered furniture in a room that overlooks the green. More important, school administrators said, the majority of the teachers are themselves performing artists.
These 260 students leave their home schools in 43 different school districts to attend either morning or afternoon classes at the arts academy. About 21 percent of the students are from Hartford. Students must audition and apply to be considered for the program. Unlike the math and science academy, this school will accept students whose home districts do not participate in the magnet program. Students can pay privately. Sebastien Guidetti, 17, of Glastonbury works summers on a blueberry farm to help earn some of the $3,900 tuition so he can play the vibraphone, percussion and piano in the academy's jazz ensemble.
The school building project is complete and the program to build owner-occupied housing is one-third accomplished. Thus far, 15 houses have either been newly built or rehabilitated; four more are under construction and 10 more properties will be completed, said Mr. Perez, who coordinates the housing effort. Many vacant houses have been torn down. The restored or new homes have been sold to neighborhood residents. Seventy percent of people in the target area are Hispanic. Eighty-five percent of them are renters.
On average, the two family homes are built for $185,000 with city, state and federal subsidies. The neighborhood alliance sells the houses for about $95,000, often with down payment assistance and reduced mortgage rates. The conditions for the buyers are these: They must live in the house for at least three years, 10 percent of the debt is discounted if they stay 10 years or more. They need to take a home ownership training class. People who live or work in the area get top priority, a practice Mr. Dobelle calls "geographic affirmative action."
Mark Hallums is negotiating to buy a big yellow house around the corner from the Learning Corridor. The 34-year-old Bloomfield resident works in the buildings and grounds department at Trinity. He said the offer of home ownership was too good to pass up.
"If this collaboration can put up $200 million in the area," he said, hooking his thumb in the direction of Mr. Perez as a symbol of the neighborhood alliance, "I can put up $100,000."
Mr. Dobelle wasn't the first person to suggest change for the Barry Square and Frog Hollow neighborhoods. His predecessor, Tom Gerety, supported neighborhood groups. The neighborhood alliance is 22-years-old, but was not yet part of a coalition. There was a community newspaper, merchant associations and educational programs. They needed to be galvanized.
The first big thing Mr. Dobelle did was come up with $5.9 million. Hartford Hospital put up another $5 million, legitimizing the project. Experts were hired to examine the 15-block area of the neighborhood. At the same time, Mr. Dobelle and Mr. Perez went into the neighborhood to hear concerns and capitalize on existing community groups such as Hartford Areas Rally Together (HART).
"Kids were their top priority," Mr. Perez said. "Then crime, jobs and housing. People said maybe if we had decent jobs, crime wouldn't be such a big problem."
The police department is focusing on "quality of life" issues in the neighborhood, such as public drinking, noise complaints, an approach used successfully in cities like New York. Statistically, major crime in the Barry Square neighborhood has decreased 33 percent since 1993, according to Hartford Police Sergeant Neil Dryfe, the department's public information officer. Yet he noted there has been an increase of 29 percent from January to August of this year when compared to the same period in 1999.
Across the street from Hartford Hospital is the HART Job Center. It opened in 1996 to train and find work primarily for residents of the neighborhood. Several hundred people are placed each year. The center was the first source for hiring during construction of the Learning Corridor.
The center's director, Ana Natal, and her staff steer people to available jobs, help them learn to type, use a computer and fill out an application. Mr. Perez admitted the center is sometimes more unorthodox than professional, but said that does not hamper its effectiveness. Ms. Natal said the center is a start for people.
"A lot of our people walk in off the street, most of them are Hispanic and don't speak English," she said. "They have nothing and nowhere else to go. We don't turn people away."
New houses and buildings are up, some streets have been improved, but a lot of work remains. On some streets surrounding the school, house after house is abandoned, their yards littered with broken glass.
Mayor Michael Peters did not return telephone calls seeking comment about the Trinity program. Yet when asked about the neighborhood, the first thing residents point out is the Learning Corridor as the most potent symbol of change. Others use different markers. Yolanda Jimenez and her husband own the Roque Market. It is a small, neat-as-a-pin grocery store on Zion Street where the owners estimate half of the customers are on welfare. She expressed guarded optimism when asked about the neighborhood.
"We opened in early January and since then the neighborhood seems more calm than it was," she said. "There were a lot of drugs but I think it's improved."
Last February, the Connecticut Historical Society announced plans to move from its west end location to Zion Street, in the neighborhood known as Behind The Rocks, which borders Trinity. The architect, Frank Gehry, will design the 115,000-square-foot space. Linda Campanella, Trinity senior vice president for operations and planning, said the society's decision was another example of "a nonprofit catalyzing economic renewal in the area." As the neighborhood is restored, Mr. Dobelle said he hopes self-confidence of its residents follows.
" Nonprofit organizations don't pay taxes for a reason, Mr. Dobelle said, adding that these institutions are supposed to give back to their communities. "We're trying to do the right thing. We're sending a signal to other colleges that asks, do you or don't you do the right thing?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Learning Corridor around Trinity College has four new schools, including the Montessori Magnet School, above, the only public Montessori school in the state. Below, a boy rides his bicycle through the area, and, bottom, the Frog Hollow neighborhood near the campus. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Dancers are instructed at the Greater Hartford Academy of the Arts, which is part of the Learning Corridor. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) (pg. 10); A view of the Trinity College campus in Hartford from the Learning Corridor. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT CHILDREN'S MEDICAL CENTER CORP (64%); LOCTITE CORP (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); TRINITY COLLEGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY COLLEGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (85%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: EVAN S DOBELLE (91%); EDDIE PEREZ (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



749 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Coming of Age, but Going Nowhere

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
TOMMY, a 12-year-old Indian boy, born in Canada, searches for a father, rejecting the one he has.
Tina, his 16-year-old cousin who cannot walk, endures the rituals of an arranged marriage in India, eventually giving up whatever she was searching for, and rejecting everything she doesn't have. 
 Somehow, the paths of Tommy and Tina intersect, though not dramatically, in "Rice Boy," a very long night's journey at Yale Repertory Theater in New Haven.
The quest for identity and for love are universalized through specificity, and a playwright can hardly be more culturally specific than Sunil Kuruvilla. Still, the two cousins, not to mention Father, Uncle, Auntie, Granny, and such outsiders as a servant girl, a fish seller, a sari clerk, a kinky umbrella man and a nut seller are grounded in Indian mores .
"Rice Boy" is not transcendent. Although the playwright, a 1999 graduate of Yale Drama School, struggles lugubriously to be charming, the quality of his whimsy is strained. "Eventually you will be unhappy," Auntie, who is Tina's mother, tells her about marriage. "But not at the beginning," she assures her daughter. That's as humorous as it gets.
Oddly, Canada, the playwright's homeland, is shortchanged, even though Tommy's indolent father, a mathematics professor in his own country, now an unemployed pizza maker in his land of exile, says, "I don't know how to be a Canadian father," not that he tries.
"Rice Boy," based on Mr. Kuruvilla's memories of childhood trps to India, does not try to depict a cross section or intertwining of two cultures. Except for its vivid evocations of Indian rites -- the preliminaries for the making of the unleavened bread, nan; the sprinkling of rice powder for kolams, decorative patterns, on the stage floor; talk of cinammon fields and rosewater ice cream -- Mr. Kuruvilla's play is flat and meaningless, down to its last line, a reference to boys without girls.
Liz Diamond, a resident director of the company, appears to have gone round and round to energize it and make it flow. The production is enhanced by ascending and descending screens of many colors, and such lovely effects as snowflakes, which Granny tastes and pronounces sweeter than the rain.
One learns of Auntie's infidelity with the family doctor and of Father's misery with his marriage to Tommy's mother who drowned mysteriously and whom he now loves and misses. One hears fathers incessantly undermining their children; no wonder Tommy looks for, and for a time finds, a new one.
And one listens, captively, to Granny's ravings, never knowing whether they are informational, senile or intended to be poetic. Given her sculpted face, stunningly communicative hands and dancer's grace, Yolande Bavan provides other diversions, mostly of a choreographic sort.
In his truly annoying coming of age, the incessantly demanding Tommy hardly progresses beyond whining, though his all-consuming sadness and premonitions of death remain just an offering for possibilities of depth. Unlike Ms. Bavan, Wayne Kasserman does not possess his own talent to distract. At the end of an hour-long first act, he asks, "Where should I go?" and one wonders, who cares.
A gratuitous, but mercifully shorter second act, winds up with the sort of obligatory narrative provided by a playwright who is compelled to tell us what happens to everybody without quite knowing how to end his own play. At least by then it's really over.
"Rice Boy" Yale Repertory Theater 222 York Street, New Haven. Box office: (203) 432-1234. Performances through Nov. 11.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angel Desai, holding book, with Yolande Bavan, center, and Shaheen Vaaz in "Rice Boy." (T. Charles Erickson/Yale Repertory Theater)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: INDIA (92%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (57%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (75%); CHILDREN (72%); 

PERSON: SUNIL KURUVILLA (71%); YOLANDE BAVAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



750 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: Few Lobsters, and Now, Fewer Lobstermen

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
BOB SPONG, 60, has been a lobsterman on Long Island Sound all his life. But last March, when he thought the lobster population might never recover, he decided to get what he calls "the first real job" he's ever held. So now he drives a forklift at the Home Depot store in Commack on the lobster shift -- what else? -- from 10 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.
"The idea was then I could still go fishing during the day," Mr. Spong said. He kept his 1,000 lobster traps in the water through the spring. But instead of hauling in 900 lobsters a day, as he and other lobstermen had when the sound was flush, he rarely brought in more than 40 a day, barely enough to pay for the trip. 
 "I worried about it for months, but I finally made the decision to take the traps out," Mr. Spong said. "There just wasn't enough signs to stay in." He still goes out on his 42-foot boat about once a week to fish for blackfish, but he doesn't expect to make much money from that. He does it just to be out on the water.
Today, of the 20 lobstermen who used to fish out of Northport, Mr. Spong's home port, only five or six are still fishing for lobster regularly, and many of them have also taken part-time jobs to help make ends meet. Some 7,000 lobster traps sit in neat piles at the foot of the old town dump in Huntington, where town officials have allowed lobstermen to store their unused gear. Mr. Spong checks on his traps every now and then and said that the number of lobstermen bringing in their pots grows each week.
Further west in the Sound, in Glen Cove to the south and Greenwich to the north, there are virtually no lobsters left and consequently no fishermen either. The situation steadily improves heading eastward, so that at the easternmost tip of the North Fork, fishermen are reporting that things appear almost normal, state officials said.
So why don't the lobstermen move farther east? The trade has traditionally been very territorial, and a lobsterman who normally fishes out of Glen Cove would not be welcome elsewhere.
Lobstermen and state officials say the good news is that lobsters do not appear to be dying off, as they had been a year ago, but the bad news is that there are many fewer lobsters being caught and virtually no signs of lobsters in the western sound.
The causes of the die-off are being studied. Research has implicated a single-celled protozoan, but other factors may be involved.
Officials in New York and Connecticut do not have statistics showing how hard the lobster industry was hit last year or how the industry is faring now. But officials said that informal surveys of lobsterman suggest that the lobster haul in the central part of the Sound is still off by more than 50 percent and down by about 30 percent as far east as Mattituck.
"It's a stark difference from the way it had been prior to the die-off when there were record-high harvests," said Gordon C. Colvin, the director of marine resources for the New York State Department of Economic Conservation.
According to the latest figures available from the National Marine Fisheries Service, the lobster industry in New York hit a peak in 1996, with 9.4 million pounds caught, worth nearly $33 million, and stayed strong through 1998, with 8.5 million pounds worth $29.8 million.
In Connecticut, the agency said, 1998 was the peak year, with 3.7 million pounds caught, $12.1 million. Preliminary figures from Connecticut show that in 1999, the haul dropped to 2.5 million pounds, worth about $9.2 million. New York State did not have comparable figures.
"The only thing that's encouraging is that we have not heard that they're dying in the central sound this fall, and most lobsters seem to be healthy," Mr. Colvin said. "But it's difficult to forecast what might happen, especially in the western sound where there are no young lobsters at all."
Lobstermen and officials agree that given the current circumstances, it will take at least four to five years -- the time it takes for young lobsters to grow to one-pound size, the minimum for legal harvesting -- for the lobster industry in Long Island Sound to recover.
But if what happened to the scallop industry in the Peconic Bay is any indication, the lobstermen have little to look forward to. The scallops there were decimated in 1985 when a sudden bloom of algae known as brown tide starved and killed them. The industry has yet to recover fully. Scallops rebounded briefly in 1994, but another bloom of brown tide hit the following year. And despite years of surveys and research, state officials have been unable to determine what causes brown tide to appear or how to control it.
It's unclear how many fewer lobster fishermen there are plying the waters this year. The number of licenses issued is down by 20 percent in New York, from 746 in 1999 to only 587 this year, and down by 8 percent in Connecticut, from 419 in 1999 to 386 this year. But officials in both states suspect that many fishermen have kept their licenses but are not actively fishing.
"The people who have stayed seem to be fishing less gear," said Eric M. Smith, the assistant director of marine fisheries for the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection. "The number of lobster pots out there has been down." Connecticut and New York officials estimated there were more than 500,000 lobster traps in the sound last year, but they will not know how many there are this year until fisherman submit their tallies in December.
Lobstermen are very close-mouthed about how much they make. But when Mr. Spong and his friends reminisce about the days of good lobstering, they talk about bringing in 900 to 1,500 pounds a day, which translates, roughly, to $3,000 to $5,000.
"It was a tough but nice way to earn a living," said Larry Eberhardt, a good friend of Mr. Spong's who now works at Home Depot, too. He said the months of April and May would be busy, followed by a slow June when lobsters shed their shells, and then followed by two or three busy months. "The rest of the time, you could vacation when you wanted and if you didn't feel like going out one day, you just didn't," he said.
Marcel Cormier, one of the few fishermen still tending lobster traps out of Northport, estimated that his lobstering income this year would drop by 90 percent. There have been days when he has checked 400 of his 1,000 traps, only to come back with only 30 lobsters. The only way for a lobsterman to survive this year, he said, is "to have a wife with a good job." (His wife, Susan, is a jeweler in Northport.)
With last year's catastrophic die-off in the western sound, the federal government has approved $3.6 million to compensate lobstermen in New York for their losses and another $3.6 million for Connecticut lobstermen, but the money has yet to be distributed, and state officials do not know how much longer it will take.
Officials from both states also are preparing to divide up $6.6 million in federal research dollars to study causes of the lobster deaths. A research team at the University of Connecticut found last November that a parasite had killed the lobsters but has been awaiting further financing for research to determine what might have weakened the lobsters' immune systems enough to make them susceptible to the parasite. The parasite in question is a paramoeba, a tiny, one-celled protozoan that targets the lobster's nervous system and destroys nerve tissue.
Many lobstermen have a different view. Blaming the die-off on last year's pesticide spraying to kill mosquitoes carrying the West Nile virus, about 1,100 lobsterman from Long Island Sound have filed a lawsuit against five pesticide manufacturers, seeking $125 million in damages. But researchers have been skeptical of the pesticide theory, noting that while the lobster die-off peaked last fall, it began last summer, before pesticide spraying began.
Other possible causes include last year's unusually warm water temperatures, which were generated by tropical storms that moved through the area and brought in large amounts of warm freshwater, the large lobster populations in previous years may have made it possible for a disease to spread rapidly.
The State University of New York at Stony Brook recently received $1 million in state money to create a pathology laboratory so lobsters will no longer have to be shipped to Connecticut, Virginia and Arizona for autopsies.
Jack Mattice, the director of the New York Sea Grant program, which will coordinate the research with Connecticut Sea Grant and other agencies from both states, said that because there were likely multiple causes for the die-off, the federally financed research would try to cover all possibilities. The research money also will be used to study the causes of shell disease, which has struck mainly in the waters off of Montauk and Fishers Island. Shell disease does not kill lobsters but leaves their shells eroded and pitted, making them unappealing at the table.
Mr. Mattice also said that some of the research money would be used to pay lobstermen to set traps to bring in a sampling of lobsters for study.
But for older fishermen like Mr. Spong, the fruits of the research may come too late.
"The lobsters won't be back in my lifetime," Mr. Spong said with resignation.
Mr. Spong and his friend Mr. Eberhardt often scour the ads in magazines for commercial fishermen, looking for a boat with a license for offshore lobster fishing. But these bigger, more powerful boats cost $400,000 to $500,000, significantly more than the $50,000 to $150,000 that a fisherman in the sound normally spends for a boat.
"We dream," Mr. Spong said, "but we don't know if we have what it takes at this stage of the game. Offshore fishing is a young man's game, because you're far out there, and you've got to fight the sea."
Mr. Eberhardt said he often wonders what to call himself these days, considering that he spends 40 hours a week moving stock at Home Depot.
"I don't know what I'm supposed to be anymore," he said. " Am I still a fisherman? I don't know. I never thought I'd have to start new at age 53, but I guess that's life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob Spong, left, and Larry Eberhardt, lobstermen, work at Home Depot. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. 17); Bob Spong, a lobsterman out of Northport, with traps he no longer sets. He has taken a job at Home Depot because of the decline in the Island's lobster industry. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (84%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (84%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CRUSTACEANS (91%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CITIES (64%); 

PERSON: BOB SPONG (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



751 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Suggestions Offered on Cutting Energy Costs

BYLINE: By SAM LUBELL

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
STRONGER conservation programs, aggressive use of alternative energy sources and public control of the electricity supply were among the ideas proposed last week at a forum here on rising energy prices.
The forum was sponsored by County Executive Andrew J. Spano, and many who attended acknowledged that most factors affecting energy prices are out of local control, like unrest in the Middle East, weather and federal energy policies. The discussion instead focused on what could be done on the local level. 
 "We have to free ourselves from the inability of the federal government and the state to move things along," Mr. Spano said.
State Assemblyman Ronald C. Tocci, a Democrat, proposed that the county's Public Utility Service Agency, which already buys power in bulk for county facilities, do the same for residential customers. This would mean "divorcing from Con Ed" to help fight what he characterized as the company's price inflation.
"It has to do with a corporate structure that has as its premise make money at the expense of the rate payer," he said of Con Ed. He said that the Public Utility Service Agency would do everything possible to help give consumers economic advantages, and proposed a referendum to empower the agency.
"There's nothing that Con Edison does that we couldn't do ourselves," he said.
Mr. Tocci and others also complained that Westchester citizens were forced to bear the burden of the company's costs in New York City.
A Con Edison spokesman, James O'Toole, responded that it was the market, not the company, that set the prices for energy, and that Con Ed was doing everything possible to keep rates down.
"We always look for the best energy deals in the marketplace for our customers, but, despite our best efforts, prices have increased," he said.
Edward Smeloff, Director of the Pace Energy Project and commissioner of the county's Public Utility Agency, proposed improved control and monitoring of consumers' energy use via technology like programmable thermostats and the internet.
Mr. Spano suggested that monitoring could eventually be made possible by linking electric, oil and gas meters to the county's developing high-speed network, Westchester Telecom, to give consumers immediate information on energy consumption. Such technology, Mr. Smeloff said, could increase energy efficiency. While the meeting was meant to draw the opinions of experts, many residents expressed their concerns.
"Seniors especially are caught up like yo-yo's on a string," said Helen Henderson, a former outreach worker from Mount Vernon who worked primarily with the elderly. She said she had helped people who were forced to choose between keeping their heat on or having enough medicine and food, and she called on local authorities to closely scrutinize and regulate energy costs.
Mr. Spano asked most residents who testified to speak with representatives on hand to work out short-term help for their problems.
"What we're trying to do is free ourselves from being hostage to federal policies by creating a whole bunch of solutions that cumulatively would have a big effect," Mr. Spano said. "I think we got some excellent feedback, and we can now see more clearly that there are things that can be done." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); THERMAL SENSORS (61%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); REFERENDUMS (51%); 

PERSON: ANDREW J SPANO (92%); EDWARD SMELOFF (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



752 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2710 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Turning Brownfields Into Fairways and Greens

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: NORTH ARLINGTON, N.J.

 BODY:
THE view is terrific, even if it's from the top of a massive trash heap. The wide swath of the Hudson River and the breathtaking skyline of Manhattan are to the east, and the rolling hills of northern New Jersey march north and west.
If current plans are carried out, this moonscape of construction debris and industrial waste rising from the watery flats known as the Meadowlands will be covered in grassland and bushes and become the home to as many as four golf courses. The project, which would involve more than 900 acres, would be one of the largest reuses in the state of a brownfield, the term for land that has been environmentally contaminated and often abandoned as a result. 
 Brownfield redevelopment is taking place all over New Jersey, a state whose industrial history has left it with an abundance of contaminated land. Real estate executives say intense demand for sites for retail, commercial and recreational activities -- along with a more realistic attitude on the part of state lawmakers and regulators -- is pushing developers to consider places they would have avoided in the past.
"Brownfields are becoming a major force in the real estate market," said Ira L. Whitman, who heads an environmental consulting company in East Brunswick. He noted that more than 3,000 people attended a recent conference in Atlantic City just to discuss brownfield issues.
"The demand for industrial land is particularly strong," said Paul D. Cohen, an executive vice president of SBWE Inc, a New Jersey-based real estate brokerage. "There are three million square feet under construction or about to start at Exit 8A," he said, referring to the exit of the New Jersey Turnpike in South Brunswick Township that is about 60 miles southwest of New York.
"And that's a second choice for most of them, since they would rather be closer to the city," he added.
The Jersey Gardens outlet mall in Elizabeth is probably the best known brownfield redevelopment in the state. The 225-store mall sits on the site of the old Elizabeth town dump, which was covered with clean dirt and equipped with drainage pipes to prepare for the new structure. Now the company that did the mall site, OENJ-Cherokee, is filling in another old dump, this one in Bayonne, to prepare it for an 18-hole public golf course. It is also attempting to develop land to the east of the mall with 700,000 square feet of modern office space and a ferry link to Manhattan.
Some of these projects are tied to the Port of New York and New Jersey, which is concentrated along the waterfront of the cities of Newark and Elizabeth. Both the Meadowlands and Bayonne golf course projects are based on using material dredged from the harbor to cap the contaminated land.
And as the dredging deepens the port so that it can receive the new generation of large container ships, traffic planners are looking to develop brownfields near the docks to house facilities to handle the larger volumes of cargo. Then, they envision value-added distribution operations that would generate needed jobs in the poorer, urban areas near the port.
In addition to the pressure of the market, real estate executives and consultants say, activity is being generated by developers, financiers and government officials who have become more sophisticated about brownfields in recent years. In particular, they have recognized that a lightly polluted brownfield is different from a heavily contaminated Superfund site, one that has been designated by the Environmental Protection Agency as one of the most dangerous in the nation.
UNDER Superfund rules, a broad range of companies associated with a site -- owners, concerns that operated plants and companies that dumped waste -- can be made responsible for the entire cost of the cleanup. Thus, developers have been reluctant to get involved with them because of the unknown cost of making a site acceptable, and lenders have often refused to provide financing, because a builder's default might make them the owner of the property -- with the consequent legal and financial responsibility for its cleanup.
The increasing attractiveness of brownfields in New Jersey is in part a result of legislation passed in 1998 under which the state provides financial incentives to promote the reuse of brownfields and does not insist that they be cleaned to a uniform standard. If a site is to remain industrial and is distant from residences, it might have only to be capped with clean material, leaving the contamination enclosed at the site.
Sites that could pose a danger to human health, such as as those near housing or schools, would have to meet a much stiffer standard.
Attitudes toward brownfields vary from state to state. In New York, some planners and architects complain that a law requiring sites to be cleaned to a pristine standard is preventing economic development in places like the South Bronx and Brooklyn.
Ronald Shiffman, director of Pratt Institute's Center for Community and Environmental Development, said such a regulatory climate drives development toward sites in suburban and rural areas that have never been used by industry, bypassing economically needy urban locations.
The Pratt center is part of a group known as the Brownfields Coalition, which proposed legislation that would encourage the establishment of cleanup standards based on how the property would be used and incentives for voluntary cleanups. The bill was not acted upon by the Legislature in Albany, with the result, according to a coalition statement, that "New York is hemorrhaging businesses, jobs and tax revenues to states who have changed the way they do business to encourage private investment in their brownfield sites."
Mr. Shiffman said: "We have prime real estate along the Hudson River and in Greenpoint, Williamsburg and Red Hook that are in need of infrastructure investment and work force training, but it is not happening."
There are few tracts of land in the metropolitan region that have been treated as badly as the New Jersey Meadowlands. Before the value of wetlands as wildlife habitat, flood control systems and water filters was recognized, the Meadowlands were treated as useless swamps, a place to dump unwanted garbage and trash.
The 32-square mile area in Bergen and Hudson Counties is now represented by the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, which has planning and zoning jurisdiction over towns within its borders.
The commission has a tentative agreement with EnCap Golf of Tampa, Fla., to lease the land for 99 years for the golf development in the Meadowlands, which may also include a hotel, time-share condominiums and other development. The company would pay to properly cap old landfills on the site that are leaching contaminated liquid into nearby waterways and emitting methane gas as a result of the decomposition of organic matter. Some of the landfills are considered "orphans" because the towns and private companies that once used them have either disappeared or declined financial responsibility.
"All these landfills were abandoned in the 1970's," said Alan J. Steinberg, executive director of the commission. "Golf is a means of having the private sector pay for closure and to enhance the quality of the Hackensack River watershed." He added that the project would help to improve the appearance of sections of the Meadowlands that are clearly visible from the western spur of the New Jersey Turnpike and would help to reduce ocean pollution by providing an upland site for the disposal of mud dredged from New York harbor as part of the deepening project.
Although heavily developed, the Meadowlands remain that most unusual of locations, an "urban wilderness," Mr. Steinberg said. Some 3,600 acres of the 19,000 acres in the tract remain as open space and most are still wetlands. Commission officials say the remaining wetlands are a vital feeding and resting area for migratory birds passing though the area.
Even on the areas that have long since been despoiled, like the landfills, the Meadowlands' proximity to Manhattan is a big part of its appeal as a recreation area. "EnCap people speak about 'experience tourism,' " Mr. Steinberg said. He said the opportunity to play golf with the Manhattan skyline in the background of the 120 foot high landfill is expected to attract visitors who might also be persuaded to do some eco-touring in the wetlands.
The Meadowlands golf proposal is an indication of the state's increasingly activist approach to brownfield redevelopment, said Jane M. Kenny, New Jersey's commissioner of community affairs and chairwoman of the state's Brownfields Task Force. "We were overly cautious in the past, but now we are more aggressive," she said.
Development of urban brownfields is tied directly to the effort to preserve open space in the densely crowded state, she said. "We have a goal of preserving one million acres of open space, so the question becomes, where do you grow," Ms. Kenny said. "So brownfields become the flip side of preserving open space." State and local efforts to preserve open space by subjecting developers' plans in rural areas to intense scrutiny can nudge them to look more favorably at brownfields, said Mr. Whitman, the environmental consultant. "Once a developer has financing, timing is important," he said. "If he is facing a 24 month approval time in a suburb versus a 12 month approval in an urban area, he is likely to choose the latter."
Brownfield development nationally is being aided by more sophisticated regulation, said Ronald B. Bruder, president of Brookhill Group, which specializes in developing contaminated properties.
Rather than insisting that all of such a site be cleaned to a pristine standard, he said, regulators are now willing to use devices like deed restrictions to prevent public contact with polluted land.
Nevertheless, he said, redevelopment will always be more difficult than an initial development on a greenfield. "These deals are complicated," he said. "It can take as long as two years to figure out how to deal with a site."
Because of that difficulty, he said, brownfield development is more sensitive to the state of the economy than the rest of the industry. "If the real estate market starts to cool, the brownfield market will cool off a lot faster," Mr. Bruder said.
Mr. Steinberg, the Meadowlands official, said economic development in the Meadowlands is intended to finance preservation of the remaining open space and wetlands. "If a wetland is functional, we are opposed to developing one square inch of it," he said. "If an area is degraded and there is no funding for restoration, we will consider development of a smaller portion of the tract if the developer will mitigate the larger portion."
The first, 36 hole, phase of the golf course plan is intended to close three "orphan" landfills in an environmentally secure manner plus one that is currently in operation.
The second phase would add 36 more holes of golf and include the towering site in North Arlington, where the commission currently operates a landfill accepting construction debris and nontoxic industrial waste. "We are totally self-funded, but we would be happy to get out of the solid waste business and collect lease payments," he said.
William Gauger, the president of EnCap, said the company planned to begin construction of the first Meadowlands golf course next July, with completion expected in July 2005. The expected cost is $70 million to $75 million, he said.
The second phase might be built in parallel with the first, with the second golf course opening in 2007. At least one of the courses will be open to the public, Mr. Gauger said. The project includes a hotel with 500 to 600 rooms, which that would open in 2007, and a marina on the Hackensack.
EnCap Golf is an offshoot of Environmental Capital International, which specializes in supplying capital to environmental concerns. Mr. Gauger said putting golf courses on top of old dumps is a common reuse of such sites, with more than 60 already in operation. One of the oldest is the Marine Park course in Brooklyn, which was built in the early 1960's.
One advantage of putting golf courses, rather than buildings, on old landfills is that there is little danger of damage if the ground subsides. Mr. Gauger said a golf course built on top of 350 feet of garbage in the Los Angeles area has subsided 50 feet in the last 15 years.
Developing golf courses on top of landfills is a way of turning eyesores into assets and increasing the value of adjacent land, Mr. Gauger said. He said the group hoped to do additional development near its golf projects, including office properties.
Brownfield development of a different sort is on the minds of officials of the North Jersey Transportation Planning Authority. Glancing out the window of its offices on the 17th floor of One Newark Center at the industrial tracts to the east in Hudson and Union Counties one day recently, John V. Hummer, the agency's special projects manager, said, "That's all brownfields out there."
The agency, he said, is anticipating a large increase in containerized freight from the Far East as dredging, first to 45 feet and ultimately to 50 feet, allows the ports in Newark and Elizabeth to accommodate a new generation of larger ships. The problem will be moving all that traffic through an already congested area. But there is also an opportunity to capture some economic advantage by doing some processing of that cargo before it leaves the region.
"The projections for traffic growth in the port are astonishing," he said. "It is expected to double in 10 years, and we are already up to the level expected in 2004." In addition to seagoing freight, the adjacent Newark Airport is expected to become one of the nation's air cargo centers.
THE agency, a federally funded planning organization that is affiliated with New Jersey Institute of Technology, has a mandate to develop plans to move freight through the region by locating facilities on brownfields.
One of the proposals the agency is studying calls for building a special road, called the Portway, for trucks moving containers from the docks to nearby warehouses and processing centers. This is intended to reduce some of the pressure on the northern stretch of the New Jersey Turnpike, which often resembles a race track for trucks, and to ease congestion on local roads.
Another is to direct more of the traffic, particularly freight traveling long distances, off the highways and onto trains. "The issue is railyard and rail capacity," Mr. Hummer said. When Conrail was operating the freight system in the Northeast, it shrunk capacity to cut costs, he said. As a result, a rail system in the northern part of New Jersey that could accommodate 250 freight trains a day in 1960 can handle only 70 trains a day at present.
And this is at a time of increased demand for passenger rail service that competes for time and space on the same track system.
The economics of transportation are such that railroads make money only on hauls of over 400 miles, so local distribution will continue to be based on trucks.
This presents an opportunity for brownfield development, Mr. Hummer said. Shippers in the Far East, he said, use the entire capacity of containers "without concern for weight restriction." But, he said "we have weight restrictions, so the containers have to be unpacked and loaded in multiple containers."
As long as the containers are being unpacked, he said, some light processing of the cargo can be done, such as sewing labels on clothing or adding bar codes and labels to goods before they are repacked for transit. "We have an opportunity to add value," he said, "and jobs beyond the usual ones in a warehouse, at locations near the terminal."
Regardless of the final use, brownfield developments have to make sense as real estate deals before the environmental costs are added in, said Andrew W. Savitz, an environmental specialist at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. "If the real estate does not work, the deal is not going to work," he said. "But if it does, it's good for both the environment and the developer."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker plants a flag to mark a route for trucks at a dump in Bayonne, N.J., that is being turned into an 18-hole golf course. Tanks in the background convert material dredged from harbor into a form that can be used to cap the landfill. Left, Jane M. Kenny, New Jersey's commissioner of community affairs, and Alan J. Steinberg, executive director of the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, inspect a site in North Arlington that may eventually hold four golf courses. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times); (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); A rendering of an office development proposed for Elizabeth, N.J., east of the Jersey Gardens mall, which is the light-colored complex in the background. (HOK Inc.); Irving Cohen, the president of OENJ-Cherokee, at the brownfield development site in Bayonne being converted to golf course. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Map of New Jersey near Atlantic City. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); GOLF (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); LANDFILLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (69%); RETAILERS (68%); FERRIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



753 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: Saving the Shore

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: VENTNOR

 BODY:
MARC MILLER'S ocean view from the dining room of his modest Cape just footsteps from the beach -- is a painter's dream. On summer days, beachgoers make their way across the several hundred yards of sand that separate the Atlantic Ocean from his floor-to-ceiling windows. The scene is often frenetic, not serene, but that's the way Mr. Miller likes it.
"This beach is for everyone," said Mr. Miller one recent day. "I love it. Visitors love it. It is there day after day and year after year. And it should stay that way, untouched." 
 But that could change under a plan being drawn up by the Army Corps of Engineers to safeguard Mr. Miller's dining room -- though perhaps not his picture-window view. The project, referred to by the corps as the Absecon Island Shore Protection Project, would add 100 more feet of beach through Ventnor and the neighboring island towns. Moreover, the widened beach would be reinforced with a 10-foot-high dune.
After the work is done, what Mr. Miller -- and all his beachfront neighbors, for that matter -- would see would not be frolicking children or greased-up sunbathers but, as he puts it, "just a large, unneeded mountain of sand."
And the project, which could ultimately cost as much as $600 million over the next 50 years, doesn't stop at this swath of shoreline.
The Corps has essentially decided that constructing dunes and rebuilding beaches in front of them is the most sensible way to protect development along the state's barrier islands as well as other stretches of the 127-mile-long coastline.
But the 71-year-old Mr. Miller, a retired insurance salesman, and the group to which he belongs -- Don't Upset the Natural Environment, or DUNE -- have drawn their own line in the sand, insisting that this kind of government spending is wasteful. "We have one of the most beautiful beaches in the world," he said. "When you build one continuous dune you destroy the beach."
Mr. Miller and his members of his organization have not come up with an alternative plan, but at the least would like to have other options to consider.
As the Corps views it, Congress has given it a mandate to protect the infrastructure that is the lifeblood of tourist and beach economies, though it is not the Corps' job to make better beaches for recreation. In addition to the projects on the boards for this state, the corps has similar plans for much of the Atlantic seaboard.
"While you can debate whether we should have built up these islands and beach areas, the fact is that there are now streets and buildings and boardwalks worth billions of dollars there," said Susan Scott-Lucas, chief of the Army Corps Coastal Planning Section in Philadelphia, which oversees the state's coastline from Manasquan Inlet to Cape May. "The main reason for this whole beach replenishment project is to protect those investments. It is only the secondary purpose that are the recreation benefits."
But what DUNE and other opponents of beach replenishment see is one long dune casting a shadow over their little slice of heaven -- a ridgeline running the length of the state blocking ocean views, making it a bit more difficult to get to the beach, blowing sand into nearby streets and houses and serving no particular purpose other than to make work for the Army Corps of Engineers.
So far, opponents of the replenishment project have delayed the first leg of the journey: the 8.1-mile, $60 million Absecon Island project, which would run through Atlantic City, Ventnor, Margate and Longport. The federal government is to bear 65 percent of the cost, while the state will take on most of the other 35 percent with the towns assuming the rest. Work is now scheduled to begin in Atlantic City in the spring and to progress down the island, finishing in Longport late next year.
Along Absecon Island alone, the project would dredge 6.2 million cubic yards of sand from the ocean floor near the Absecon Inlet on the north end of the island and construct a 200-foot-wide extension to the beach in Atlantic City and a 100-foot-wide beach in the other three towns.
In addition, the dunes -- four feet above boardwalk level in Atlantic City to a foot above in Ventnor -- would be built and reinforced with dune grass.
And the widening of the beach and building of the dune would only be the beginning. Over the next 50 years -- at a cost of $540 million -- the corps plans to pour as much as 1.67 million cubic yards of sand along those same beaches every three years to keep them stable, with the possibility of emergency reinforcements after particularly devastating storms.
Glenn Klotz is unmoved by the corps' arguments that his beloved Margate beach needs any help. Mr. Klotz, a 51-year-old computer engineer, lives several blocks from the beach -- and has for much of his life -- so it is not the ocean view he is afraid of losing. He simply regards the project as futile and wasteful.
"The sand is moving, not staying anywhere," said Mr. Klotz. "If there is a river of sand moving down the beach and you dump sand into it, it won't work. You are throwing the taxpayers' money into the ocean. And someone is making a lot of money pushing that sand around."
But Stewart Farrell, a professor of marine science and geology and director of the Coastal Research Center at Richard Stockton College of New Jersey, like most experts on the subject, disagrees with opponents of the replenishment project.
"If the argument is that we are messing with Mother Nature, well, we messed with her long ago when we built there," Professor Farrell said. "If nothing is done now, those houses will wash away and they will certainly wash away sooner without the project than with it. That is guaranteed in stone. We could make the choice to let that happen, but the politicians and the banks certainly won't like it. The fact is that beach nourishment on a large scale is the only way to keep the wolf from the door as long as sea level is rising."
SCIENTIFIC disagreement notwithstanding, Mr. Klotz, a leader of DUNE, says he and other opponents of the project feel beach replenishment is a political football, noting that although the Clinton Administration has been against the project, the Republican-controlled Congress has continued to finance the corps' proposals.
President Clinton vetoed the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 2001, which included funds for future beach replenishment projects, saying that the legislation passed by Congress included too much federal money for all Army Corps projects. Indeed, officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency testified that the projects were too expensive and, if undertaken at all, should be done by individual communities.
"You can imagine the pressure on local politicians to go along," he said. "They must think, 'What if a storm comes and I don't build this dune? Will I ever be elected again?' Fortunately, some of the political people are showing some courage."
After about 750 people -- most of them opposed to the project -- attended three informational meetings held by the Corps of Engineers over the past several months, elected officials in Ventnor, Margate and Longport said they wanted to wait until they had more information before they signed onto the project.
"That will probably, at the very least, delay work," said Ms. Scott-Lucas. "And the project will not happen unless every town along the beach wants in."
This is dismaying to Mayor James Whelan of Atlantic City, which is by far the largest city on Absecon Island.
"It's a very frustrating issue for us," said Mayor Whelan. "We have done anything the feds and the state have asked us to do, and our neighbors on the island have not. If you live on barrier islands, you need to pump sand. That's the fact. We can pump them now or we can do it 10 or 20 years from now after we've had a devastating storm. You can't wait for unanimous support on every issue. We need to do this before a disaster happens."
But Ms. Scott-Lucas explained the need to have every town on the island on board this way: You can't have a dune for several miles, then have no dune and expect the dunes to be stable. It would be a waste of time to do that kind of partial project.
In general, the scientific community favors the construction of dunes to save the beaches as an environmentally benign approach to beach preservation.
Moreover, Professor Farrell said that the arguments against building the dunes were flawed. "People say it is a big pile of dirt," Professor Farrell said, "but they go on that other side of the dune and that dirt is what they love to call a beach.
"They say dunes collect trash, but they don't," he continued. "People do that and municipalities are forced to clean it up, which they generally do. Then they talk about bugs, rats and muggers. Muggers can find better hideouts. Rats can't find food there. And, bugs, all right, they have bugs, but there are probably bugs in everyone's house at the beach."
For his part, Mr. Klotz dismissed Mr. Farrell's advocacy of beach replenishment, saying he was a mouthpiece for the corps. On the other hand, he said that people who own beach property should not not be reimbursed -- either through insurance or legislation -- should their homes be washed away.
"The land moves," he said. "Back in the beginning of the 1900's, part of Longport detached and ended up as the north part of Ocean City. That's only natural, and we who live here on the island understand that. We are prepared to live with that and, certainly, we don't think people in Cherry Hill, or Ohio for that matter, should be paying for filling our beaches."
Interestingly, that is the objection an otherwise sympathetic scientist, Norbert P. Psuty, a professor of marine and coastal sciences at Cook College, Rutgers University.
"I have always been in favor of dunes, whether artificially or naturally made," said Professor Psuty. "They are there not to prevent the shore from eroding, but to prevent the storm surge inland. From a natural kind of process perspective, it more closely duplicates the natural system.
"My attitude on beach fill is that I am antagonistic on the way it is paid for," he added. "Locals should pay a larger share. I am philosophically opposed to state and federal taxpayers paying for local costs. Those who go to the beach are paying a fee going into the town coffers. I don't see why that can't be used to pay for beach fill.
Beach fill and dune reconstruction is a relatively new way of preserving beaches. In the early 20th century, towns often constructed groins -- long, rocky piers into the ocean -- to divert sand to their beaches or to keep sand from washing away. Eventually some towns, like Sea Girt in northern Monmouth County, ended up with virtually no beach, and a sea wall was built there to stop the ocean from washing onto the adjacent buildings and roads.
Or there are places like Wildwood, where the beach has filled in from both the north and the south -- largely because of jetties that the corps erected years ago at Cape May Inlet -- to such an extent that it can actually fit another city block or two on some stretches and still have a substantial surf. Because of that, Five Mile Island in Wildwood is the only barrier island in the state where no dunes or beach replenishment projects are planned.
Whatever the outcome of the proposed project on Absecon Island and other beaches along the state's coastline through 2005, real estate firms are unconcerned about the potential effect on the market for beachfront property.
"The public may right now have difficulty with the federal government trying to push this through," said Michael Zitomer, vice president of Zitomer Real Estate, which has offices in Margate and Longport. "But I think you have to sacrifice for the 'what if.' What if that big storm really hits? People just need to receive the right information and then, I think, they will realize that everyone will benefit. And, let's face it, people will build second-floor decks and they'll have their views and property values won't be affected."
Farther south, Seven Mile Island stands to be next in line for the dune project, or perhaps the first late next year if the towns on Absecon Island balk. And the more upscale and less densely populated towns of Avalon and Stone Harbor that make up Seven Mile Island appear to welcome the beach fill.
Both towns have financed their own smaller projects over the last few years -- Avalon on the north end of the island and in Stone Harbor between 98th and 110th Streets. Since each individual project undertaken by the Corps of Engineers requires Congressional approval, the financing for Seven Mile Island has not yet been authorized, though it seems to be taken as a matter of course there.
"When they built the dunes from 98th Street, maybe you could no longer see the ocean from the sidewalk, but I didn't hear anyone complain," said Bob Sellers of Diller-Fisher Real Estate in Stone Harbor. "Maybe it will actually enhance property values, even if it is only the appearance of safety. Besides, now people seem to build with, say, guest rooms and storage downstairs and the master bedroom and kitchen with big windows on the second floor, higher than the dunes."
JUST how the beach replenishment projects will affect flood insurance rates is an open question, at least according to Sam Wierman, who owns the Ide Insurance Agency in Stone Harbor.
"It's a complicated formula that the federal agencies that underwrite the insurance use, but having dunes will factor into it and certainly can't hurt, Mr. Wierman said. "Still, in 20 years, I can count on two hands the claims I have gotten from flooding on the beach. Ironically enough, it may be the bay that is the problem."
For all the controversy about the dunes and the beach widening, said Professor Psuty of Rutgers, it is indeed the bay side of all these islands that probably needs some more attention.
"Sea level in New Jersey has come up a foot over the last century, and it is estimated that it could come up two more feet this century," he said. "At the same time, development has leveled some of the islands by two, or as many as six feet.
"So what has happened," he added, "is that on the bay side of the island, some of the buildings are now only a foot above sea level. The streets flood regularly. And with global warming and continued development, it only projects to be worse. You can put up 20-foot dunes and it's not going to help the bay side. People may well be fighting the wrong fight."
Such talk only inflames Mr. Miller of DUNE.
"What we really need is more and more information, not just putting up a dune because the Army Corps say it's the way to go," he said. "Mother Nature is going to govern in the end, though. I'm willing to leave it to her and take my chances."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Ocean City, a tripod, above, and dredging equipment, left -- signs that the Corps has begun beach replenishment, which Marc Miller of Ventnor says will destroy the beach. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 1); The Army Corps of Engineers has begun amassing equipment for an extensive beach replenishment project will run the length of much of the state at a staging area near North Street in Ocean City. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Map of New Jersey shore line (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BEACHES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); EROSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMIES (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



754 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
Poised to Raise Real Jersey Tomatoes, Year Round

BYLINE: By Karen DeMasters

 BODY:
Just as home gardeners are putting away the tomato cages, those at the experimental agriculture station greenhouse in Bordentown operated by Cook College of Rutgers University are preparing to harvest their first tomatoes of the season. The workers there not only hope to produce a steady stream of tomatoes to be sold to King's Supermarkets in northern New Jersey throughout the winter, but they also hope the tomatoes will be as good as any that are picked in the Jersey fields at the peak of summer. The greenhouse, next to the landfill at the Burlington County Resource Center, is in the middle of its third year of operation. Dr. Harry Janes, a research professor and director of the greenhouse, which is next to the landfill at the Burlington Country Resource Center, talked recently about the operation.
Q. How is your tomato greenhouse different from others? 
 A. The tomato seeds are planted in a small block of spun rock that looks like fiberglass and they are placed on tables that are on rollers and easily moveable. The plants are kept to about four feet in height. They are watered regularly with water that is enriched with controlled amounts of fertilizer. The heat for the building is made from methane gas that is siphoned off of the landfill. This not only provides an economical source of heat but it uses a greenhouse gas that can harm the ozone, so we are helping the environment. Now we are trying to find ways to reduce the cost of lighting, which can be 30 percent of the cost of running a greenhouse.
Q. What is the ultimate goal?
A. We know we can grow tomatoes that are as good as ones grown in the field in New Jersey in the summertime. What we are trying to do now is to grow tomatoes of that same quality in a greenhouse economically enough so that farmers can do it and make a profit. The reason other greenhouse tomatoes in the supermarkets in the wintertime are not as good is because they are bred to have thicker walls and less gel so they can be shipped long distances. They are picked before they are ripe, and much of the sugar is absorbed into the tomato from the plant just as they are ripening. We can leave them on the vine longer. But we have to be able to produce a steady flow of tomatoes throughout the winter or a supermarket is not going to be interested in buying them. We want to be able to go to the farmers and say, "This is how you do it to make a reasonable profit." In the past, greenhouse production was not economical because tomatoes could not be produced consistently. We have a grant from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration because they want to know what can be grown in the least amount of space.
Q. Why use moveable trays?
A. One of the biggest costs is labor. In most greenhouses you have floor-to-ceiling plants and the workers have to move among them. The plants can be damaged and the workers cannot be properly supervised. With moveable trays, the plants can be much closer together and they are brought to the workers. We plant seeds every week, so there are tomatoes ripening all winter long. We can have four times as many plants per acre and one fourth as many workers. Our workers are all mentally or emotionally handicapped people. When the plants can be moved to the people, it is easy to provide the guidance the workers need.
Q. Is the greenhouse used to raise anything other than tomatoes?
A. This greenhouse is the only one of its kind. We have the graduate students preparing proposals to use the 2.5 feet of space beneath the tables for growing ornamental fish. We don't know if it can be done or if you can make a profit doing it. We think we might be able to use the nitrogen waste from the fish as fertilizer. We'll experiment to try to find those things out. KAREN DeMASTERS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Harry Janes at the greenhouse where Rutgers is growing tomatoes to be sold in groceries this winter. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); GREENHOUSE & PROTECTED CROPS (89%); GARDENING (78%); METHANE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); FERTILIZERS (73%); OZONE DEPLETION (73%); NATURAL GAS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



755 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 13; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Alexandra Freeman, Douglas Pyle

 BODY:
Dr. Alexandra Fell Freeman, a daughter of Lucile and Harry L. Freeman of Chevy Chase, Md., was married yesterday to Douglas Hugh Mackay Pyle, the son of Elizabeth Pyle Whitney of Weston, Mass., and the late Dr. Hugh Mackay Pyle. The Rev. Dr. Theodore Rosche, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at the Strong Mansion, a historic house in Dickerson, Md.
The couple graduated from Carleton College, the bride magna cum laude. They work in Chicago, where the bride is a fellow in pediatric infectious diseases at Children's Memorial Hospital and the bridegroom is the assistant to the president of the Chicago Transit Authority. 
 Dr. Freeman, 29, is keeping her name. She received her medical degree magna cum laude from Georgetown University. Her father, who retired as an executive vice president for external affairs at the American Express Company in New York, is the founder and chairman of the Mark Twain Institute, an organization in Chevy Chase that gives grants for economic research. Her mother, who retired as the head librarian at the public library in Poolesville, Md., is a docent at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington.
Mr. Pyle, 30, received an M.B.A. from Yale. His mother retired as the associate director of financial aid at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass. His father was a hematologist and oncologist at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston and a clinical instructor in medicine at Harvard University. The bridegroom is a stepson of Charles A. Whitney, an emeritus professor of astronomy at Harvard and former senior scientist at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Ellyn Sudow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (69%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (69%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (75%); PATHOLOGY (75%); LIBRARIANS (75%); PEDIATRICS (75%); ASTROPHYSICS (72%); LIBRARIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ONCOLOGY (67%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: FREEMAN, DR. ALEXANDRA FELL; PYLE, DOUGLAS HUGH MACKAY ALEXANDRA FELL FREEMAN (92%); HARRY L FREEMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



756 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Diane Gujarati, Charles Chesnut

 BODY:
Diane Gujarati, a daughter of Ruth Pincus Gujarati of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Damodar Gujarati of Tarrytown, N.Y., is to be married today to Charles Frederic Chesnut, the son of Joan Chesnut of Hockessin, Del., and the late Thomas F. Chesnut. Judge John M. Walker Jr., the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New Haven, is to officiate at Tappan Hill in Tarrytown.
The bride, 31, is an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan. She graduated summa cum laude from Barnard College and received a law degree from Yale. Her father is a professor of economics at the United States Military Academy at West Point, N.Y. Her mother teaches social studies at Theodore Roosevelt High School in the Bronx. 
 The bridegroom, 37, designs and builds Web sites for I.B.M., in Manhattan. He graduated from Hamilton College. His mother, an actor known professionally as Joan Christopher, has appeared in regional theater. His father ran a fund-raising company in Manhattan that bore his name.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); GUJARAT, INDIA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (83%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (83%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); GUJARAT, INDIA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); JUDGES (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); LAWYERS (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); APPEALS COURTS (56%); 

PERSON: GUJARATI, DIANE (DIANE CHESNUT); CHESNUT, CHARLES FREDERIC JOHN M WALKER JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



757 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Warning From One President To the Next

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:

To: My Successor
From: Bill Clinton
Date: Nov. 8, 2000
Congratulations on your victory. My bequest to you is the best economy that any of us has ever known, a testament either to the righteousness of my policies or my exquisitely fortuitous timing. (We'll let history sort that one out.) 
 In any case, here's your first top-secret briefing as president-elect: The good times probably won't last.
I'm not trying to put a damper on your celebration. But let's face it: no winning streak goes on forever, and even with Alan Greenspan working his magic, this expansion is vulnerable on a number of fronts.
So if you don't want to be a one-term president, you had better start thinking about where the economic danger will lurk during your watch.
Here are three topics that, however arcane they sound, may soon be keeping you awake at night: the current account deficit, the possibility that the long boom in capital spending will come to a halt, and the likelihood that the current budget surpluses will give way to another era of deficits.
The current account -- a broad measure of the balance of trade and the flow of capital across borders -- is running a huge deficit. This year, it has been more than 4 percent of the gross domestic product, the largest by far among the big industrial countries and well above its last peak of 3.4 percent during the mid-1980's.
In a sense, the current account deficit is an indicator of strength. The economy is expanding faster than those of our major trading partners, so imports are surging while export growth has been sluggish. Moreover, capital has cascaded into the United States because rates of return here have been high, both from the stock market and from direct investments like the acquisition of companies or the construction of new factories.
In this new, productivity-enhanced economy, no one knows how big the current account deficit can grow before the United States encounters trouble. But at some point the deficit will become unsustainable.
Here's the possibility that generates sweaty palms at Treasury and the Fed: Foreign investors judge the United States to be losing its economic edge. They suddenly become nervous about the current account and cut off the flow of new money into the country. The dollar plummets, inflation accelerates and the Fed responds by pushing up interest rates, choking off growth.
How do we address the problem? By encouraging more robust growth in Japan and Europe, and by shoring up our own national balance sheet through continued reduction of the national debt and increased levels of private savings. As you'll soon find out, those things are easier said than done.
Perhaps the most important characteristic of this expansion has been the high rate of growth in capital spending. The growth reflects the successful drive by corporations to squeeze out costs and improve productivity, and accounts for a substantial chunk of total demand in the economy.
Companies have enjoyed high rates of return on capital spending because they have been able to borrow money cheaply. But now interest rates for corporate borrowers are rising. At the same time, profit growth is slowing, as is overall economic growth.
Many forces, including global competition, are still pressuring companies to continue to invest in new equipment, but it is now clear that the rate of increase is slowing. A continued slowdown could have outsized effects on economic growth, and on the outlook for corporate profits and for Wall Street.
Through its effects "on productivity growth and ultimately on the level of stock prices, the capital spending boom has been responsible for a significant part of the growth in consumer spending in recent years," said a recent study by Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman, Sachs.
"In short, if the boom were to end," the study added, "this could undermine the virtuous cycle that has driven U.S. growth over the past decade."
The economy's recent strength has been underpinned by big budget surpluses and reduction of the national debt. But guess what? The surplus is shrinking already, and that's not even the real problem.
Even if all the positive forces that have generated surpluses for the last few years remain intact for another decade, the government's fiscal condition is going to take a wrenching turn for the worse starting around 2015, as we confront the bill from the aging of the baby-boom generation. The prospect of huge budget deficits lies just over the horizon.
I'm heading off into early retirement myself. Do me a favor and help me make it a prosperous and secure dotage.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart tracks U.S. trade deficit in goods, services and income since 1996.
(Source: Bloomberg Finacial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ACQUISITIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



758 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Taking On the Corporate Goliaths

BYLINE: By GRAHAM GORI

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
WHEN Mexico's antitrust agency decided to break up the nation's airline monopoly in early October, the move was seen as a bold show of aggressiveness. It also sent a strong signal that with the government about to change hands, Mexico might be prepared to guarantee competitors greater access to markets now dominated by single companies.
Telefonos de Mexico, known as Telmex, dominates telecommunications, Cintra owns the skies, the state-run Petroleos de Mexico, known as Pemex, controls oil and Bimbo rules the bread market. These companies have benefited greatly from decades of weak or nonexistent regulation, coupled with a tight relationship between big business and big government. 
 Vicente Fox Quesada, who takes office in a little more than a month, has said that to accomplish his economic goals, he will need to strengthen existing antitrust and regulatory commissions. He wants to ensure that they are more powerful than the beasts they were devised to tame, giving competitors greater access to markets previously closed to them.
The most important is the Federal Antitrust Commission, headed by Francisco Sanchez Ugarte. In its seven years of existence, it has tackled some of the nation's most powerful companies. Two years ago, it ruled that Telmex, run by one of Latin America's richest men, Carlos Slim, was a monopoly, a decision that should have resulted in major reductions on the leviathan's grip on the telecommunications market. Telmex's share of the long-distance market has rebounded to 81 percent after falling to about 70 percent, and the company still provides more than 95 percent of local service.
But through appeals, Telmex has tied up the issue in the judicial system, raised the prospect of a telecommunications trade battle with the United States and illustrated the weakness of antitrust enforcement.
All of this begs a question: What good is it to have an antitrust agency if its ability to enforce decisions depends on the good will of the companies it is regulating?
"We need to give regulators the teeth that they don't have currently," said Emilio Goicoechea, a congressman from Mr. Fox's National Action Party. "The regulators simply can't enforce their decisions."
Mr. Fox's economic advisers plan to present a proposal to Congress that would eliminate the "judicial uncertainty" of antitrust decisions. The law would limit the appeals process and allow the agency to put regulations into effect immediately, even if they are challenged in court.
Damian Fraser, a Latin American equity strategist for UBS Warburg, agreed with proposals to beef up regulatory agencies as a way to lower costs and increase efficiency.
"The government's role should be to allow competition in the market," he said. "I think it's a lot easier to take on monopolies in the new Mexico than in the past. What you had was a cozy, de facto, unwritten agreement between large companies and the PRI," the longtime ruling party.
"The companies would support the PRI, if the PRI in turn would support the companies and help them maintain a dominant market share," he added.
BUT even before Mr. Fox's plans are debated in Congress, the antitrust agency has begun acting more forcefully. A few weeks ago, it ruled against Cintra, calling for it to sell its two largest carriers, Mexicana and Aeromexico, as separate and competing entities.
Mr. Fox's economic team withheld comment on the recent Cintra deal, but said it was committed to a strong regulatory agency.
The opposing argument is that Mexican companies need monopolistic power to compete with overseas rivals, especially under the North American Free Trade Agreement. In the wake of the Cintra decision, union leaders have led protests against what they see as any action that would "jeopardize the future of this country's aviation," said Jaime Luis Gonzalez, general director of the Airline Pilots Association of Mexico.
Mr. Gonzalez has threatened strikes and shutdowns if the airlines are split. He would view a breakup as an open invitation for foreign competitors to muscle into Mexico's air travel market, which could lead to layoffs of airline employees.
Cintra officials also balked at the decision, arguing that a unified airline industry could better compete globally. They boast that after taking over the near-bankrupt airlines in 1995, Cintra grew to become Latin America's largest and most lucrative airline company. If it is split, they say, the separate airlines could not hold their own against United States carriers like United or Delta.
The unfriendly reception, however, has not slowed the antitrust commission. It ruled recently that Pemex's gas stations would have to sell lubricants made by competitors of Lubmex, in which Pemex has 49 percent ownership.
Last week, Mr. Sanchez announced that the commission was investigating the selling practices of Coca-Cola in Mexico. Next in line, he said, are the selling practices of two dominant beer manufacturers, Grupo Modelo and Grupo Moctezuma Cuauhtemoc.
If Mr. Fox succeeds in creating regulatory agencies capable of enforcing their rulings, the United States government would welcome the news. Richard W. Fisher, the deputy United States trade representative, recently came to Mexico to argue that its government had not done enough to prevent Telmex from denying competitors entry into Mexico's telecommunications market. AT&T and WorldCom have complained about the interconnection fees that Telmex charges competitors to connect into its network, arguing that the practice violates World Trade Organization agreements.
Although Mexico's federal regulators ordered Telmex this month to slash its interconnection rates by 63 percent, it remains to be seen if the order will be enforced. Telmex could seek another injunction. "We will be looking to see whether or not these decisions by very earnest regulators will be implemented and enforced," Mr. Fisher said. "I think the signal this will send is critical to the success of the Fox administration."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil worker at a tank farm owned by Pemex, the company that dominates Mexico's energy market. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (90%); PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (71%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPEALS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (51%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (78%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



759 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Treacherous Stretch For a Busing Leader

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Ontario

 BODY:
NO company buses more people around North America than Laidlaw Inc. Its 40,000 school buses transport more than two million students in cities like Rochester, and its 3,800 Greyhound coaches form by far the largest network in the United States. Laidlaw also operates 240 municipal transit services -- including those carrying commuters in Orange County, Calif., and the disabled in Boston -- as well as ambulance services.
What many of its passengers may not know, however, is that Laidlaw, based here, about an hour west of Toronto but doing 90 percent of its business in the United States, is struggling to survive. 
 Its bus businesses make money, but not enough to cover the interest on $3.3 billion of mostly public debt amassed in failed growth plans during the 1990's. The company is already in default, having paid no interest on the debt since mid-May. Last week, it reached an agreement with its creditors, enabling it to borrow as much as an additional $350 million.
With that agreement, Laidlaw's operating units can now keep going for several months. But by next spring, Laidlaw faces the risk that school boards will refuse to keep doing business with a company whose future is uncertain.
John R. Grainger, 51, who joined Laidlaw a decade ago and became president and chief executive in December, faces a company-imposed deadline of next March 31 for bankers, bondholders and shareholders to agree on a reorganization. Stephen Cooper of Zolfo Cooper, a New York firm specializing in turnarounds, joined Laidlaw as vice chairman in mid-July to supervise the restructuring and sell the idea to investors.
If creditors and shareholders refuse to sign on, Mr. Grainger says, the company could be forced into bankruptcy and sold off in pieces.
Laidlaw took several wrong turns to arrive at a destination that Mr. Grainger bluntly calls "our disaster." Aggressive expansion into ambulance service proved to be a sinkhole, and the company's foray into the waste management business also proved worthless.
In the quarter ended May 31, Laidlaw had a loss of $227 million on sales of $1.08 billion. That compared with a profit of $168 million on sales of $896 million in the year-earlier period.
To improve the company's finances, creditors would have to exchange a big chunk of their debt for equity. Stockholders would see their share of the company greatly diluted. (The stock, which reached $20.25 on the New York Stock Exchange in February 1991, closed on Friday at 25 cents.)
Mr. Grainger said in an interview at the Laidlaw headquarters that he was trying to determine how much debt the bus and ambulance businesses could support, and which investors would end up with how much of the company. "How that value -- in debt, equity and cash -- will be split up among the stakeholders will be negotiated between now and March 31," he said.
Kam Hon, a transportation analyst at Dominion Bond Rating Service in Toronto, cited two factors that might make a reorganization succeed. One is that the school transportation and Greyhound divisions continue to be profitable. The other is that Laidlaw is in such a deep hole that selling off the company in pieces would yield scant returns for anyone with a financial stake. "It doesn't serve anybody's interest to put the company under when its assets are nowhere near its liabilities," Mr. Hon said.
For much of its history, Laidlaw had steady and orderly growth. Established as a trucking company in 1924, it was bought in 1959 by Michael DeGroote, a businessman in Hamilton, Ontario. Mr. DeGroote added industrial waste disposal and school bus companies in Canada and the United States, then sold the trucking division. The company was listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange in 1969 and on the Nasdaq in 1983. It moved from Nasdaq to the New York Stock Exchange in 1990, when Mr. DeGroote retired.
During the 1990's, while the company continued to buy school bus companies, Laidlaw executives decided that their logistical skills could be applied to consolidating another area of transportation: ambulance services. It made sense at the time, said Mr. Grainger, who was then running the bus division. "In retrospect, it should have been done more slowly, but when you're consolidating, speed is part of the strategy."
With the purchase of MedTrans in 1993, CareLine in 1995 and American Medical Response in 1997, Laidlaw became the biggest transporter of the sick and injured in the United States. But about that time, the government began a far-reaching inquiry into reports of false Medicare charges and overcharges, including those related to ambulance services. Neither Laidlaw nor any other ambulance company was ultimately accused of wrongdoing. Like other ambulance companies, however, Laidlaw had to return some government payments as a result of the inquiry, while new rules led to delays in subsequent payments. Losses began to mount in the ambulance division.
LAIDLAW, meanwhile, sought to expand in the business of transporting industrial waste. In 1997, it bought Rollins Environmental, to merge with its own waste management unit. A year later, Laidlaw made a successful hostile bid for control of Safety-Kleen, an industrial waste processor based in Columbia, S.C.; after consolidating its own various waste holdings into Safety-Kleen, Laidlaw ended up with a 44 percent stake in the company.
Laidlaw added intercity buses in 1997 with the acquisition of Greyhound Canada, followed by the 1999 purchase of Greyhound Lines Inc. in the United States. Recently reorganized, Greyhound remained heavily in debt when Laidlaw bought it for $816 million and assumed its $416 million in debt.
Feeling its own debt squeeze, Laidlaw decided in September 1999 to sell its ambulance operations and Safety-Kleen stake for an anticipated $2 billion. The cash, it said at the time, would be used to reduce debt and to buy more buses.
The sale of Safety-Kleen was expected to be routine until employees of the company raised questions about dubious accounting practices. A board-ordered audit uncovered improprieties and, although no charges resulted, Safety-Kleen filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June of this year. Laidlaw has written off an investment once valued at more than $1 billion. Some Safety-Kleen creditors have threatened to seek recovery of a $200 million payment that Laidlaw received from Safety-Kleen in August 1999 that creditors say should go to them instead. Laidlaw, which says the payment was part of the sale of its own waste company to Safety-Kleen and therefore was appropriate, will have to settle any claims before its own restructuring can proceed.
The ambulance business, still unprofitable, is also unsold. "We're receiving distress kinds of offers, below what we think are appropriate values," Mr. Grainger said. He now says the company may keep the ambulance operations, whose results have improved recently.
The new bank loans ensure that the school bus, Greyhound and ambulance divisions will have enough cash in the near term. If he can hold the company together, Mr. Grainger said, it will have a good foundation on which to build. School bus contracts provide healthy profit margins, and the school bus division accounted for $72 million of the company's $99.2 million in operating profit for the latest quarter. Two-thirds of the school buses in North America are run by private companies that Laidlaw might want to acquire.
Margins are thinner at Greyhound, but passenger loads have been rising and, as a low-cost travel option, the company may stand to benefit from an economic downturn.
Mr. Grainger's mission is to work on longer-range plans, even as he rushes to strike a deal.
"Our job is to keep value in the company, while recognizing the constraints we're under," he said. "I tell our operating people to consider this as a race, but it's a marathon -- it's going to be long and tough, but we're doing it at a measured pace. The negotiating team -- they're in a sprint."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laidlaw operates 40,000 school buses, including these in Hartford, as well as 3,800 Greyhound coaches and some municipal transit services. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A One-Way Trip"
Chart shows shares of Laidlaw parent of Greyhound Lines, have fallen sharply since 1998.
(Source: Bloomberg Finacial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FGP (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485113 BUS & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); NAICS485112 COMMUTER RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRSTGROUP PLC (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BONDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN F COOPER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



760 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Shifting Rules Add Luster to Trusts

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
THE long bull market has left some people with more wealth than they -- and their children -- will ever need. But barring some extreme act of profligacy by their immediate heirs, the super-rich face the prospect of having that money whittled away again and again by estate taxes with each passing generation.
There is an alternative, though, for those who are concerned about their financial legacies to distant descendants. Called a "dynasty trust," it provides -- as most trusts do -- substantial tax savings for the person setting it up. And the money is never again subject to estate taxes. 
 The trusts are still available only in some states, but anyone can travel to those states to set one up.
"Dynasty trusts are tremendously attractive, because wealth builds up quickly when it can be passed on without paying estate taxes at each successive generation," said Gideon Rothschild, a partner at Moses & Singer, a law firm in New York.
If a dynasty trust of roughly $1 million was established today, Mr. Rothschild figured, it would be worth $867.7 million after four generations, assuming that it grew 7 percent a year and nothing was spent. By contrast, it would be worth $35.6 million if the property was given outright to future generations and was subject each time to an estate tax of up to 55 percent.
For a century, wealthy families like the Rockefellers have created intergenerational trusts called family trusts. In 1986, Congress capped tax-free contributions at $1 million, indexed for inflation to $1.03 million this year, and most states limit trusts to roughly 100 years by adopting a version of the 16th-century British common-law doctrine called the rule against perpetuities.
The rule was devised by kings who feared that land given in return for service to the crown would be left to people who had no obligation for such service. Under the rule, a trust had to terminate 21 years after the death of a specified person living at the time the trust is created.
So far, 13 states have eliminated rules against perpetuities, making dynasty trusts possible. South Dakota, Wisconsin and Idaho were first, in 1983. Other states followed suit starting in 1996 -- most recently New Jersey in 1999 and Rhode Island this year. Starting in 2001, Floridians will be able to create 360-year trusts. New York and Missouri, among others, are debating similar moves.
Critics say dynasty trusts will further increase the concentration of wealth, can benefit people estranged from the donor and encourage litigation over the right to money from the fund and over how it is invested.
Alan Halpern, an estate tax specialist at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, says that if the estate tax is repealed or limited to billionaires, heirs of those who create dynasty trusts may be unhappy. "Can you imagine if there is no estate tax and all this wealth is tied up in perpetuity?" he said.
The tax savings can be considerable. No federal gift taxes are owed when the trust is set up with assets valued at the amount protected by the one-time "federal unified credit," now $675,000 a person. The assets are not taxed in the donor's estate and can be free from state income taxes, depending on where the trust is set up. (South Dakota and Delaware, among others, generally levy no tax.) Finally, the trust can be structured so that assets are free from creditors' claims, ex-spouses or lawsuits against beneficiaries.
Dynasty trusts are often established as "defective grantor trusts," in which income is taxed not to the trust but to the person who created it. By paying the tax, the trust creator makes additional tax-free gifts. But Mr. Rothschild advises giving the trustee power to convert it to a nongrantor trust, to allow the trust creator to opt out of paying taxes.
Because dynasty trusts are long term, the trust document should include provisions to adjust for changing family circumstances and to allow modification or termination of the trust if the estate tax is repealed. Most important, but often neglected, is a statement of why the trust was created, said Laura H. Peebles, director in the Washington national tax office of Deloitte & Touche.
"What your kids, grandchildren and great-grandchildren will do with the money is more important than what Uncle Sam will do with his share," Ms. Peebles said. Often, the creator of a trust outlines his or her philosophy in a separate document, to avoid having it construed as legally binding. Some people want a trust used for education expenses, while others direct trustees to distribute income only when heirs fall below a certain standard of living.
The cost of setting up a dynasty trust varies. A simple lifetime trust established outside the home state of the trust creator costs $5,000 to $7,500 or more, depending on the complexity. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ESTATE TAX (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FAMILY (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); LAWYERS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); 

PERSON: GIDEON ROTHSCHILD (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



761 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Michael J. Donnelly and Mark S. Kopiniski;
American Century Emerging Markets Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MICHAEL J. DONNELLY, a manager of the $110 million American Century Emerging Markets fund, speaks Spanish, French and a smattering of Russian. Mark S. Kopinski, the other manager, speaks fluent Japanese. Collectively, the 14 American Century international analysts speak 13 languages, including Ukrainian, Cantonese and Afrikaans.
But the fund speaks to its investors in a different language: It returned 3.9 percent in the 12 months ended Oct. 26, compared with a loss of 2.6 percent for its peers in the diversified emerging markets category, according to Morningstar Inc. Over three years, a generally rough period for the emerging markets, the fund returned 2.5 percent a year, on average, versus a loss of 8.0 percent for the average fund in the category. 
 Mr. Kopinski, 44, and Mr. Donnelly, 35, called the market sell-off of September and October overdone.
"The emerging markets have been beaten up past a point that's reasonable," Mr. Donnelly said. "I think they're due for a considerable rally soon."
In picking stocks, the managers study 1,500 companies in 35 countries around the world. They use computer screens in their research -- though such filtering can be difficult for companies in some markets. "Our database is built around quarterly reporting, which isn't available in many emerging-markets countries," Mr. Kopinski said.
They look for companies with annual earnings growth of at least 20 percent, but they may raise or lower that bar depending on the industry and the countries where they operate. For example, earnings in countries that have devalued their currency may not be sustainable, Mr. Kopinski explained.
The portfolio's earnings growth rate averages 27 percent, versus 17 percent for the Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets Free Index.
The earnings test pares down their universe to about 300 companies, from which they eventually choose 100 to 125 stocks for the fund.
When working in their New York offices, the two men meet at 9 a.m. daily with the international analysts for the American Century fund family, sharing information about earnings announcements as well as global, country and industry trends.
"The global perspective gives us context for our investment decisions," Mr. Donnelly said. In the cellular phone industry, he added, "we were scratching around early in the emerging markets because we saw the trend developing in Europe."
Their work also requires an understanding of both corporate and national cultures, the managers said.
The managers often sell shares after one disappointing earnings report. "If a good company stumbles, it tends to take time to get back on its feet again," Mr. Kopinski said.
One favorite is Tubos de Acero de Mexico, a maker of pipes used for oil and gas transportation and drilling; the company trades as American depository receipts on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The company operates in a quasi-oligopolistic market around the world," Mr. Kopinski said. "Now that the price of oil is increasing, it will be a direct beneficiary of equipment purchasing by the major international oil companies."
Sales volume is on the rise despite quarterly price increases of 4 to 5 percent. Most sales are priced in American dollars, providing a hedge against weakness in the Mexican peso, Mr. Kopinski added.
The fund bought shares in September 1999 at $14.80. On Friday, they closed at $13.95, or 6.31 times the consensus earnings estimate of $2.21 a share for this year.
THEY also like Folli-Follie, a Greek retailer of midpriced fashion jewelry sold in rented space in department stores in about a dozen countries worldwide.
A visit to the company in May confirmed that operations were strong, Mr. Donnelly said. He expects annual earnings growth of 40 percent through 2002. "They're gaining market share in Japan," he said, "and moving into shops in the larger department stores, even though the Japanese economy is slow."
Growth in same-store sales, those at stores open at least a year, has doubled in the last three years. The company has opened stores in the United States and France and plans to expand into duty-free shops in Asia, Mr. Donnelly added.
The managers bought shares in May 1998 at 7,390 drachmas. The stock closed on Friday at 7,610 drachmas, or 59 times analysts' earnings estimates of 129 drachmas a share for this year.
Another holding is China Mobile (Hong Kong). The company is the largest cellular provider in China, Mr. Kopinski said; its acquisitions of regional mobile phone operators have resulted in a network running the length of China's eastern seaboard. The company has modernized the billing systems of its acquired companies, improved networks and pursued business users aggressively, he said, resulting in "a lot of upside in the subscriber base and earnings of the acquired companies."
Vodofone recently acquired a small stake in the company, Mr. Kopinski said, a move that will help it become part of a global network.
The managers bought the stock in June 1999 at $52 (Hong Kong); it now trades at $52.75, or 41.5 times consensus 2000 earnings estimates of $1.27 a share.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Financial news is never far away when Mark S. Kopinski, left, and Michael J. Donnelly have lunch in their fund company's dining area. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "American Century Emerging Markets Fund"
Category: Diversified emerging markets
Net assets: $110 million
Inception: September 1997
Managers: Michael J. Donnelly and Mark S. Kopinski since inception
Minimum purchase: $10,000 ($10,000 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 168%
3-year annualized return through Oct. 26: +2.5%
Category average: -8.0%
 
Sector breakdown
Financials: 10.3%
Consumer durables: 6.6%
Consumer staples: 6.2%
Other: 13.1%
Technology: 29.9%
Services: 17.0%
Industrial cyclicals: 16.9%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 2%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS331210 IRON & STEEL PIPE & TUBE MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED STEEL (61%); SIC3317 STEEL PIPE & TUBES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (71%); TUBOS DE ACERO DE MEXICO SA (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CURRENCIES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (50%); DEVALUATION (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: MARK S KOPINSKI (94%); MICHAEL J DONNELLY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



762 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: Poised to Take Merrill by the Horns

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
OPENING his mail several months ago, E. Stanley O'Neal got a real blast from his past. An instructor from graduate school had sent him a card that Harvard Business School professors had used to track Mr. O'Neal's class participation. Affixed to it was a picture of him in full mid-70's flower, with a bushy Afro, long mustache and dark-tinted glasses.
"Would you want this man running your company?" said a note attached by the sender. 
 That joke elicited a burst of baritone laughter from Mr. O'Neal as he recounted it recently. Weeks earlier, he had been chosen to run the brokerage operations of Merrill Lynch & Company, a job generally considered a steppingstone to the chief executive's chair.
"I hadn't seen that picture in almost 25 years," said Mr. O'Neal, now 49 and known to all as Stan. The picture was snapped in a photo booth during a break from work as a foreman at an auto plant outside Atlanta, and Mr. O'Neal took particular note of his factory-issued shirt of "some unnatural blend" involving polyester.
Today, Mr. O'Neal looks every bit the polished Wall Street master, starched and trim in pinstriped suits and French-cuffed shirts made of nothing but fine cotton. Typical, except for one essential detail: Mr. O'Neal is an African-American, still a rarity in the executive suites of the biggest investment banks and brokerage firms.
When Merrill Lynch promoted him in February from chief financial officer to president of what the firm calls its U.S. Private Client Group, he became the first black person ever to run the nation's biggest brokerage business. He is also the first person to hold that job who never worked as a stockbroker, probably is the first who had ever labored in an auto factory, and almost certainly is the first who had picked cotton for spending money as a boy.
Now, he spends his days in corporate jets and conference rooms, deciding how Merrill's 15,000 brokers should provide financial advice to the millionaires and multimillionaires he says should be Merrill's main target. He took the reins at a crucial time for the brokers, who account for less than half of the firm's profit but who are still considered crown jewels. Merrill and other major brokerage firms are under attack from all manner of new competitors that have much lower costs and can charge less for stock trades and other services delivered mostly electronically.
The Charles Schwab Corporation, once dismissed on Wall Street as a low-budget discount broker, has swiftly shrunk Merrill's lead as the nation's biggest broker by consistently attracting more new customers and assets than Merrill. To stem the flow of accounts to Schwab and others, Merrill has slashed some prices, cut 2,000 jobs and, belatedly, embraced the Internet.
After a decade of concentrating on gathering customer assets without keeping a sharp on eye on costs, Merrill is under pressure from shareholders to show that its brokerage business can slim down and become more profitable. That is where Mr. O'Neal, with his background as a financial manager, comes in.
He has pledged to raise the pretax profit margin of the brokerage unit by three to four percentage points within four years. "He's got to do that," said Richard Strauss, an analyst at the Goldman Sachs Group. "That's the bare minimum, not a home run."
Even then, the business would be keeping, before paying taxes, less than 18 cents of every dollar in revenue. Mr. Strauss said pretax returns from a dominant financial services franchise should be higher than 20 percent, as they are at Schwab and some mutual fund and trust companies.
If Mr. O'Neal knocks the cover off the ball in his first crack at running one of Merrill's main businesses solo, he could cinch the chance to succeed David H. Komansky, Merrill's popular chief and chairman. No major firm on Wall Street has ever had a black chief executive.
Mr. Komansky, the expansive former broker who has been chief since late 1996 and chairman since 1997, is scheduled to retire in 2004. He has promised that by January 2002, he will help the board select a successor to serve as president and C.E.O.-in-waiting for two years. Mr. Komansky has said that there are four or five internal candidates who could succeed him, and speculation within Merrill has focused on Thomas W. Davis, who oversees trading and investment banking; Jeffrey M. Peek, who manages the mutual fund business; and, after his promotion to run the brokerage, Mr. O'Neal.
The promotion of Mr. O'Neal came as a surprise to most of the brokers he now manages, and even to some other Merrill executives. Most had learned little about him during his first dozen years at the firm -- few knew that his first initial stood for Ernest -- and many had considered him out of contention for a top job after he was selected as chief financial officer in 1998.
"I've been relatively anonymous for a long time, which has been perfectly fine with me," he said.
Outside Merrill, Mr. O'Neal has maintained an even lower profile. He is a director of one charitable organization, the Ronald McDonald House near his Park Avenue apartment in Manhattan, but is not involved with any major service organizations. When the National Urban League, which has tried for years to have Mr. O'Neal join its board, presents an award next month to Merrill Lynch, Mr. Komansky will accept it.
Hugh B. Price, the league's chief executive, said he still hoped to reel in Mr. O'Neal at some point.
"His success at Merrill Lynch and on Merrill Lynch's terms is what's of most significance to us as a people," Mr. Price said.
Mr. O'Neal is off to a fast start. During the summer, he cut 2,000 support jobs in the brokerage division while adding about 500 brokers, and started flattening the hierarchy that had built up over the years. Those and other expense reductions contributed heavily to Merrill's surprisingly strong earnings in the third quarter, which were 53 percent higher than in the third quarter of 1999.
Still, the contribution from the brokerage operations lags well behind that of Merrill's investment bank. The firm's businesses that cater to corporate and institutional clients earned $3.1 billion before taxes in the first nine months of 2000, about two and a half times as much as the brokerage business earned.
 THE early gains from the brokerage business have added to Mr. Komansky's affinity for Mr. O'Neal. The chairman dismissed the most common criticism of Mr. O'Neal as a leader: that he is too guarded, too tightly wound, that, in short, he is nothing like Mr. Komansky.
"We both came from fairly atypical backgrounds for where we ended up," said Mr. Komansky, a Bronx native whose father was a postal worker. "Stan didn't have the easiest trip in the world." Mr. O'Neal may not be the gregarious back-slapper that he is, Mr. Komansky said, but "superficial characteristics of a leader are less important than what that person is made of."
Mr. O'Neal's journey to Wall Street started in rural eastern Alabama, where his grandfather, who Mr. O'Neal said was born a slave, had settled to raise timber and cotton. He refused to sharecrop on a white man's land and managed to borrow enough money to buy his own, said Mr. O'Neal's father, Ernest O'Neal, who is 70.
The oldest of four children, Mr. O'Neal was born in 1951, and lived as a child in a house built by his father and uncles. The house had no indoor plumbing, Mr. O'Neal said, and he walked to a one-room schoolhouse. He recalled taking breaks to gather wood for the stove that heated the school.
His grandmother, mother and aunts picked cotton, and he sometimes worked in the fields alongside them. "They were not totally unpleasant chores, because I was with my family and I used to listen to all the talk and the gossip," he said. "I didn't like the sense of being poor, though."
Ernest O'Neal remembers his oldest son as a quiet boy who read a lot and kept to himself.
Hard times on the farm drove Ernest O'Neal to move his family to a federal housing project in Atlanta when Stan was 13. In 1964, the father landed a job at the General Motors assembly plant in Doraville, northeast of Atlanta, just as the factory's work force was being integrated.
An indifferent student in high school, Mr. O'Neal enrolled in the General Motors Institute, a cooperative college run by the automaker in Flint, Mich., after it held an open house at the Georgia factory. He earned a bachelor's degree in industrial administration by taking classes in Michigan for six weeks at a time, then driving the 640 miles back to Atlanta to work in the Doraville plant for six weeks.
After failing two classes in his second year at G.M.I, now known as Kettering Institute, Mr. O'Neal said he made a concentrated effort to excel. That led him, after a two-year stint as a foreman at Doraville, to the Harvard Business School, where he was an honor student. Upon earning his M.B.A., he joined General Motors' treasury office in New York, a breeding ground for executives. Among his contemporaries was Richard Waggoner, now chief executive of G.M.
Tony Hain, who taught at G.M.I. and later worked with Mr. O'Neal at G.M., remembered him as being able to read people and win them over. "His interpersonal radar is probably as good as anyone I have known," said Mr. Hain, now the dean of Kettering's graduate school.
JOHN FINNEGAN, G.M.'s acting chief financial officer, said that at G.M., "Stan was a star right away in the office." Recalling him as smart and focused, Mr. Finnegan added that he "seemed to have a great dislike for useless work."
Mr. O'Neal worked on some of G.M.'s biggest financial deals in the 1980's, including the issuance of tracking stocks for its fast-growing Hughes Electronics and Electronic Data Systems divisions, but he became restless as the company's competitive position sagged. Having come in frequent contact with investment bankers, Mr. O'Neal began to consider making the leap to Wall Street, as had one of his G.M. bosses, Courtney F. Jones.
Mr. Jones, who had been treasurer, left in 1985 to be Merrill's chief financial officer and tried to persuade Mr. O'Neal to follow him.
But Mr. O'Neal had decided that if he was going to Wall Street, he would not go as a financial manager but rather into a job where his contribution could be measured in the only way that counts there: in revenue brought to the firm. Leaving G.M. entailed big career risks and Mr. O'Neal sought a big potential reward, the sort of huge annual bonus that investment bankers took home.
Mr. O'Neal considered Salomon Brothers and Morgan Stanley before deciding in 1987 that he would be more comfortable at Merrill.
G.M. tried hard to stop him, summoning Mr. O'Neal to its Detroit headquarters for meetings with the chief executive and other officials who told him that he had a bright future at the company.
Mr. O'Neal's wife, Nancy Garvey, an economist who worked with him in the treasurer's office, said her husband labored over the decision long and hard. "We spent a lot of time talking about it," said Ms. Garvey, who went on to be the controller of Allied-Signal, but resigned in 1997 to raise the couple's twins, who are now 9 years old.
"It was a gutsy move," said Robert Scully, a vice chairman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and a close friend of Mr. O'Neal's. "On Wall Street, eventually you have to do business, you have to write some tickets."
After joining Merrill, Mr. O'Neal made his mark by pushing the firm to be more competitive in the market for high-yield, or junk, bonds. By persuading companies with weak credit ratings to pay hefty fees to Merrill to sell their bonds, Mr. O'Neal led the firm to a top ranking among junk-bond underwriters in the early 1990's.
That success earned him the top job in the junk-bond department and put him on the path to loftier positions. When Herbert M. Allison was appointed to the No. 2 position at Merrill in April 1997, Mr. O'Neal was promoted to be one of his replacements as co-manager of all of the firm's trading and investment banking operations.
Brian Hehir, a senior Merrill investment banker who then reported to Mr. O'Neal, remembers taking frequent calls from his boss, who always had a list of questions about Mr. Hehir's business. Mr. O'Neal was "inquisitive" and "voracious" for information, but never imperious, Mr. Hehir said. "I had a very strong feeling that he had an extreme sense of fairness," he said.
MR. O'NEAL'S ascent since then has been speedy but far from linear. In less than a year, Mr. Komansky persuaded him to become chief financial officer, a role that people at investment banks generally see as thankless, and one that Mr. O'Neal accepted grudgingly. That stint lasted less than two years. But one of them was 1998, a wrenching year for Merrill.
The firm was rocked by the devastation that the Russian financial crisis wrought on global bond markets. Merrill, which had taken pride in being one of the biggest players in every segment of the bond market, got caught owning a huge amount of bonds whose value sank so fast that they were nearly impossible to unload. Then came the implosion of Long-Term Capital Management, a giant hedge fund that Merrill had to help keep afloat. In October 1998, when its competitors were already rebounding from the chaos of late summer, Merrill reorganized its bond department and laid off 3,400 full-time and 900 part-time employees. The $430 million cost of the revamping caused Merrill to lose $173 million in the third quarter of 1998.
Mr. O'Neal had the unpleasant task of delivering the stunningly bad news to investors through conference calls with analysts. Some of them pointed out that as a former head of the capital markets business, Mr. O'Neal had a hand in the buildup that led to the blow-up.
HOW Mr. O'Neal managed to survive with his reputation intact as a first-rate financial manager remains something of a mystery, some analysts and current and former Merrill employees said. None of them wanted to be identified as critics of a man who may run Merrill someday, and none had a negative word to say about Mr. O'Neal as a person. But they voiced doubts about how he would fare in his first try at running a major line of business by himself.
Those sentiments do not completely surprise Mr. O'Neal, who says he has often been saddled with low expectations, largely because of his race. Before his latest promotion, he said, when he met people socially and they asked him what he did for a living, he would say he worked at Merrill.
"And what do you do there?" they would ask. When he said he was the chief financial officer, he said, there inevitably would be a pause, followed about 75 percent of the time by: "Of the whole company?"
Mr. O'Neal shrugs off such reactions, saying, "It's not malicious at all, but there's an unspoken expectation that's embedded in that exchange.
I've been able to find ways of dealing with most of this stuff," he continued. "I've chosen to conduct my career and compete, as much as I could, on ability and performance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: E. Stanley O'Neal, chief of Merrill Lynch's brokerage operations, with pupils at a third-grade class he visited in Birmingham, Ala., not far from his rural childhood home. (Michael Clemmer for The New York Times)(pg. 1); E. Stanley O'Neal has come a long way, and lost much hair, since this yearbook photograph in 1973. (pg. 13)
 
Chart: "Still First in Its Class"
Merrill Lynch is still the top brokerage house in assets, but Charles Schwab and other competitors have changed the landscape in recent years.
 
Chart tracks Merrill Lynch and top competitors in assets for 1994 and 1999.
(Source: Salomon Smith Barney)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (74%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALABAMA, USA (74%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (63%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (60%); 

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



763 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Worker Housing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The connection between property ownership and economic development in Peru as elucidated by the economist Hernando de Soto is clearly visible in the history of American home ownership (Editorial Observer, Oct. 26). 
 In the late 19th century, immigrant workers here were more likely to own homes than were middle-class Americans. Workers often used their houses as collateral for loans. But this did not necessarily provide for upward mobility; in many cases those loans were used to get through difficult economic times and to buttress wages that were too low to support a family.
Easy access to property titles may have helped to start industrial capitalism, but that's in part because home ownership allowed workers to survive on relatively low wages. The solution to poverty here and in the developing world is access to both loans and higher wages.
 
MARGARET GARB
New York, Oct. 26, 2000
 
The writer is adjunct professor of history, City College of New York. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (73%); HISTORY (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); IMMIGRATION (56%); 

PERSON: MARGARET GARB NEW YORK (62%); HERNANDO DE SOTO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



764 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Working Nuclear Blackmail

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
WHY the difference between American policy toward Cuba, a renegade Communist backwater whose dictator is scorned by the United States, and toward North Korea, a renegade Communist backwater whose dictator was feted last week with Californian wines carried by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright?
One obvious reason is the political importance of fiercely anti-Castro Cubans in Florida. But there is another, more fundamental reason: weaponry. 
 Cuba built roads, schools and a conventional army. North Korea built nuclear weapons and missiles that can soar across most or all the Pacific and threaten the United States in the coming years.
So Washington, after decades of isolating North Korea much as it isolated Cuba, has been forced by this variant of gunboat diplomacy to change its stance.
In 1994, for example, the United States agreed to help construct billions of dollars worth of new nuclear plants for North Korea, if it abandoned atomic weapons development. From the North's perspective, the crowning achievement of its policy will come this fall, if President Clinton goes ahead with a contemplated trip to meet Kim Jong Il, North Korea's longtime "Dear Leader," more recently its "Great Leader," also known to his people as "the greatest of great men produced by heaven."
Nuclear blackmail, in short, pays pretty well.
Secretary Albright's visit to the North Korean capital of Pyongyang, the world's last Stalinist redoubt, put the issue in sharp perspective. She unwillingly boosted the legitimacy of Mr. Kim when she sat with him and watched a grand gymnastic spectacle in which the multitudes used cards to spell out in huge Korean letters: "Greatest glory to the great leader comrade Kim Jong Il."
The Chosun Ilbo, one of South Korea's leading newspapers, harrumphed: "Are We Paying Again for North Korea's Giving Up Its Missiles?" The answer is probably yes, if a price can be agreed upon. And that price will set the benchmark against which North Korea will then be able to negotiate further payoffs for giving up what intelligence experts believe are its considerable stockpiles of sarin nerve gas, mustard gas and various biological weapons, possibly including smallpox.
All this suggests that Kim Jong Il may be a shrewder leader than many people realize. For more than a decade, he has been portrayed largely as a buffoon, a playboy, a sadist, a maniac and a demented terrorist. Intelligence officials have talked about how he raced cars, attended to a harem of Scandinavian blondes, accumulated thousands of Western videos, executed aides and developed a bouffant hairstyle to add an inch or two to his 5-foot, 2-inch stature. He also repeatedly changed his name -- from the Russian name Yura, which he used in his youth, to Jong Il (meaning Jong the First), to a homonym Jong Il (meaning Jong the Sun). But for a supposed buffoon presiding over a famine-stricken land, Mr. Kim has done remarkably well in high-stakes international poker.
"They have played a weak hand very well," said Mitchell B. Reiss, a North Korea expert who is dean of international studies at the College of William and Mary.
Yet it is not that Americans have played badly. Rather, their cards were never very appealing.
In 1994, the United States pressed North Korea hard to abandon its nuclear program, threatening a naval blockade if it did not. At the time, North Korea warned that it could turn the South Korean capital of Seoul into "a sea of flames." Many military officials now say that the United States and North Korea came perilously close to war, much closer than was generally realized at the time. And while the United States clearly would have won, North Korea in its tormented death throes might have killed vast numbers of civilians in South Korea.
In the end a war was averted, thanks to the intervention of former President Jimmy Carter. The United States grumpily agreed to help build nuclear reactors for North Korea and supply it with fuel oil, arguably an unprincipled payoff, which most believe was preferable to a principled war.
That was nuclear blackmail. Today, instead, it's missile blackmail. In 1998 North Korea developed a new missile, the Taepodong, and sent it arching over Japan for a splashdown in the Pacific. The Taepodong is exceptionally inaccurate and for that reason not very useful militarily, but it still makes a valuable poker chip.
Once again, while everyone chafes at the idea of payoffs, blackmail and bribes, many diplomats believe that the alternatives are worse. As Walter Slocombe, a former under secretary of defense, once put it, leaving North Korea to its own devices would allow it to begin "turning out plutonium like sausages."
In a new book "North Korea: Through the Looking Glass" (Brookings Institution, 2000), Kongdan Oh and Ralph C. Hassig review the policy options, underscore their flaws, and then cite John Kenneth Galbraith's letter to President Kennedy in 1962: "Politics is not the art of the possible. It consists in choosing between the disastrous and the unpalatable."
Ms. Oh and Mr. Hassig say that some payoffs, regrettably, are probably necessary in the short run, and they add with equal regret that the only carrots that will lead the Dear Leader to change his behavior are those that will strengthen his dictatorship. "So the problem," they write, "is this: the kind of rewards that might reduce the Kim regime's hostility will strengthen that regime and will therefore prove unpopular among democratic donor states."
PROFESSOR REISS noted that while the rewards for North Korea have been unusual in scale, there is a long history of the United States offering "inducements" to other countries in similar situations. This began with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's "Atoms for Peace" program. Even today, United States policy toward countries like Pakistan and Iran rewards them economically, with trade, investments and loans from international organizations, if they steer away from nuclear weapons.
"Is this a bad example?" Professor Reiss asked of American policy toward North Korea. "Are other countries going to develop nuclear weapons programs so that they can trade them for economic development?" His answer is probably not, but if that were to happen, it might not be so awful to buy them out as well.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saluting Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong Il's father, who made North Korea what it is today. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (60%); SMALLPOX (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



765 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: The Car Is King;
Mass Transit Riders Are Pawns

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
IT lasted 32 days and left half a million people stranded without their usual means of transportation. Maids and nannies struggled to find new ways from East Los Angeles to Beverly Hills, office workers carpooled and were chronically late and the notoriously bad traffic on freeways and surface streets was, if anything, worse.
Yet, somehow, most of Los Angeles hardly seemed to notice the monthlong bus and subway strike against the county's sprawling Metropolitan Transportation Authority that finally ended 10 days ago. For most of its duration, the strike rarely made the local television news. Politicians and union members faced little public pressure to reach a settlement. Only the intercession of a famous outside mediator, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, finally ended the walkout. 
 After all, this is the place where you are your car. It's not unusual for commuters to drive 100 miles round trip each day, or 45 minutes to eat dinner with friends. More than 8 in 10 Los Angeles area households have at least one car, and even the poorest residents tend to know somebody who knows somebody who has one in which they can share a ride. In a county with a population of 9.4 million, buses and subways move about 450,000 people any given day; there are 5.9 million registered cars and trucks.
But here's the paradox: greater Los Angeles grew up in the sprawling pattern the world knows today not because of the automobile but because of mass transit, the streetcars and rail lines of a century ago, that allowed a collection of interconnected communities and garden suburbs to flourish in contrast to the denser, traditional cities of the East and Midwest. The explosion of car culture only accelerated that trend -- as did the subsequent decline of mass transit.
Now, with more freeways more crowded than ever and literally no room left to build many new ones, Los Angeles County (an area three-fifths the size of Connecticut) is more dependent than ever on mass transit for the survival of its service economy. Two-career middle-class couples can go off to work in no small measure because of an interconnected system (mostly bus lines) that deposits cheap and reliable household help near their doors each day.
What's more, current projections call for the region to grow by six million people, or two Chicagos, over the next 20 to 25 years. That means even affluent Angelenos will have to look for new ways to avoid the daily agonies of driving clogged freeways, or make their peace with living in denser neighborhoods closer to their jobs -- or both.
"This strike shouldn't have happened and we should have been able to avoid it through negotiation," said Zev Yaroslavsky, a Los Angeles County Supervisor and M.T.A. board member, who like his colleagues took a hard line in the standoff with the agency's 4,300 drivers. "But we have to position this agency for the long term, to expand the quality and quantity of service to this increasingly transit dependent region."
The transit agency was under intense pressure to cut costs because of the huge price tag of its last big idea: a subway serving a relatively small part of the central city that wound up costing $4.5 billion for just over 17 miles of track. Plans for a grander system fell victim to construction delays, cost overruns and political infighting. Meanwhile, with so much money going to the subway, bus service declined and fares rose, so ridership fell overall. Now, the focus is on expanding the overcrowded bus system with new express routes and technology that keeps traffic lights green to speed the buses down major arteries.
To be sure, the challenges of building a workable system are enormous in a region where, in the words of Peter Gordon, a professor of urban and regional planning at the University of Southern California, "origins and destinations are ubiquitous." That means commuters are just as likely to be traveling from one suburb to another as from the suburbs to an urban core, so models like New York or Boston make little sense. Which is why it may be tempting to draw the wrong lesson from the strike -- that since the city did not grind to a halt, mass transit does not matter here.
"It may be that some of the seeming non-impact is that the impacts are diffuse and hard to quantify," said Eric H. Monkkonen, a professor of urban history and policy studies at the University of California at Los Angeles. It's one thing to measure the lost income of people who couldn't get to work. But what about the lost services for people whose workers didn't show up? Or whose secretaries were late because they were driving their sisters to work? Is a missed doctor's appointment for someone with a chronic illness a minor inconvenience?
"Just as Los Angeles is a spread-out city, it doesn't depend on any one network," Professor Monkkonen added. In the Northridge earthquake, for example, when the Santa Monica Freeway was closed because a bridge collapsed, affluent workers still managed to find ways to drive into downtown Los Angeles on surface streets. In fact, Los Angeles has a certain resilience precisely because it has no one center of action, but is instead a sprawling collection of "edge cities."
INDEED, the municipal bus systems of cities-within-the-city, like Santa Monica, kept operating and, in some cases, expanded service to relieve the strain of the M.T.A. strike. And Angelenos mostly managed to limp along, in car pools, gypsy cabs, on bicycles and on foot.
In this city, owning a car remains the most reliable mark of upward mobility, and immigrants aspire to own a used Toyota here the way they might learn the subway map in New York. But in a place where it's getting harder and harder for everyone to drive, there's reason to think the fire next time could be worse.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A claims supervisor awaited a lift downtown. Drivers offered rides for a few dollars. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); URBANIZATION (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



766 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: October 22-28;
Now It's Time To Play Geography

BYLINE: By Peter Marks

 BODY:
Put aside, for the moment, thorny subjects like economic policy and national security. The 2000 presidential campaign is down to a question of geography. Eighteen states are in play, political strategists say, and in a startling reversal of received political wisdom, the number of tossup states is actually growing as the days to election day dwindle down to a few.
The candidates spent the week in a frenzied game of musical media markets, setting their campaign planes down long enough in advertising battlefields like Milwaukee and Pittsburgh and Tampa to speak above the roar of the jet engines and the crowds. 
 Gov. George W. Bush sent 28 of his fellow Republican governors in teams into the battleground states.
Vice President Al Gore, seeking to reassure those who are leaning to the Green Party candidate, Ralph Nader -- whose support in swing states like Oregon and Wisconsin could be decisive -- reaffirmed his commitment to the environment before a throng of 30,000 in Madison, home of the University of Wisconsin.
"For 24 years, I have never backed down or given up on the environment, and I never will in my whole life," boomed the author of "Earth in the Balance."
The balance of the campaign, no doubt, will be even more frenetic: the polls seem to seesaw daily between the nominees. For both of them, the enemy is not merely the opposing party, but also time. Peter Marks 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



767 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: The World: Why Things Fall Apart;
A Slow, Preventable March Into Crisis

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

 BODY:
WITH its running tableau of disasters, both man-made and natural, Africa in the 1990's has shown an unerring knack for inspiring hand-wringing in the outside world and increasing self-doubt among Africans themselves about the waste and futility of half a century of independence.
Now, like an exclamation mark, the century may be closing on the descent into chaos of what has long been one of Africa's brightest corners, the former French West African country where a deeply flawed election last week produced rampaging mobs and ethnically motivated lynching, not democratic rule. By week's end, negotiations among the power seekers had begun, and an uneasy calm had taken hold. Still, the death toll was well over 100. 
 The trouble in Ivory Coast could be seen coming for at least five years, visible on the horizon like the darkness of a gathering storm. But as predictable as the disputed vote and the killings may seem, they were never inevitable.
Ivory Coast's crisis has its roots in the usual cynicism and blind ambition of politicians, but just as surely in the indifference of an onlooking world. Where Africa is concerned, it seems, extinguishing fires before they can get out of hand is scarcely ever tried.
For most Americans, the name of this country with 17 million inhabitants means nothing. In fact, there are few places in Africa today that could give the world more reason to care. For a stretch of countries from Mauritania to Nigeria, Ivory Coast, despite its modest size, has been something akin to what the United States has often been to Latin America. It has absorbed many far poorer neighbors -- more than 25 percent of the population is now foreign. With its huge exports of cocoa and coffee, sizable industrial base, good roads and working electricity and telephones (such things are not taken for granted in Africa, even today), Ivory Coast has served as the region's employer, its breadbasket, its banker, its educator and its hub.
For years, foreigners there have repeated the joke about loving to live in the capital, Abidjan, "because it's so convenient to Africa." More important, though, this was one of those rare African places that had a large and worldly middle class.
If Ivory Coast's slide goes unchecked, all that will vanish. One need only visit Liberia next door, with its skyscrapers full of squatters, to see what a gutted capital looks like, and to realize that what took generations to build can burn in a blink.
Emulation has always worked powerfully in Africa politics. In the 1960's, an often well-intentioned but ultimately disastrous socialism was in vogue. In the 1970's and 1980's, leaders began naming themselves president for life. In the mid-1990's, with the Rwandan crisis, deadly mobilization along openly ethnic lines reared its head, spreading quickly through much of East and Central Africa.
EVEN in faraway West Africa, Rwandization has become a familiar verb. For several years now, as in Rwanda, politicians have been playing to their ethnic bases, with the result that Ivory Coast is now seriously divided into three regions of roughly equal size: a Muslim north with cultural links to Mali and Burkina Faso, a Christian southeast, which has dominated the country's history, and a Christian and animist southwest with strong ancestral ties to Liberia and Guinea.
If this sounds familiar, it should. Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, broke down along almost identical lines, leading to the Biafran War in 1967. The fear of many Africa watchers is that even worse than the regional economic disaster it would occasion, an ethnic explosion of Ivory Coast would set a pattern for the region for years to come. In fact, Nigeria is facing a resurgence of ethnic violence now.
"An Ivory Coast set ablaze by ethnic hatred will light a fire clear across this region," said one Western diplomat with longtime experience in West Africa. "The only way to prevent it is for the world to engage all of the parties there and press them to respect some basic principles, especially the principle of compromise."
Many Africans have been waiting for France to lead an international effort to pressure Ivory Coast's factions to negotiate. But the wait has been in vain. The United States has condemned many of the worst abuses in Ivory Coast, where its interests are few. But France, without whose help the former colony's economy cannot run, has remained largely silent , providing support and justification for leaders even as their abuses have grown more flagrant.
While Communism was falling in Eastern Europe a decade ago, much of Africa was experiencing popular revolutions of its own. In Mali, Benin, Congo and elsewhere, citizens who organized to demand democracy were overthrowing corrupt dictators.
With little special outside help or attention, many of these early experiments in African democracy quickly foundered. But France, the only former colonial power to have maintained strong ties to its ex-possessions, worried that the end of personalized power under long-ruling dictators would open the region up to influence from others, notably the United States, and upset its interests in everything from oil fields to military bases.
Early in the 1990's, Paris decided to stem its losses by backstopping corrupt regimes in Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Gabon, resource-rich states that provided handsome returns. With the implicit backing of the French President Jacques Chirac, who had already said that Africa was "not ready for democracy," Henri Konan Bedie, the Ivory Coast leader who took power after the death of the country's founder, set out to eliminate his most important rival, a former prime minister named Alassane Ouattara.
From 1995 until the end of last year, when he was overthrown in the country's first coup, Mr. Bedie ceaselessly improvised at eliminating his rival, a former deputy director of the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Bedie invented a bogus ideology, called Ivoirite, which sought to distinguish purebred citizens, mostly deemed to be his own southern Christians, from supposed latecomers, especially northern Muslims like Mr. Ouattara.
This played on long-standing, latent hatreds. Mr. Bedie's southeastern Akan group had enjoyed the fruits of education and ultimately the power that grew out of their early contact with French colonizers. The Akan, who saw themselves as natural rulers, thought of the Muslim northerners as a "dirty" people. The southwesterners were disparaged as hotheaded near-savages.
France never seemed to tire of Mr. Bedie, but the Ivorian people did. Last Christmas Eve he was overthrown in an army coup that seemed intended to right his wrongs. That is, until the new president, Gen. Robert Guei discovered the intoxicating effect of ethnic exclusionism. Soon, he, too, was changing the rules to keep Mr. Ouattara out.
General Guei eliminated over a dozen rival candidates for the presidency, including those of the two largest parties, making a sham of this month's election. Having barred them from the race, the unpopular general was surprised to be soundly defeated in a low turnout by Laurent Gbagbo, a pioneer of the country's democracy movement.
AFTER the stunned general sought to proclaim himself president anyway, his military government was literally chased from office by tens of thousands of supporters of Mr. Gbagbo, who now claimed power. But in a country badly divided along ethnic lines, this left two-thirds of the population dangerously disgruntled and unrepresented, setting up the terrifying street confrontations between supporters of Mr. Gbagbo and Mr. Ouattara.
While much of the world, from Kofi Annan and the State Department to the South African President Thabo Mbeki and the Organization of African Unity called for new, free elections, the French government, which has always seemed more preoccupied with African power than with process, rushed to back Mr. Gbagbo.
"Don't expect comments from us that could resemble a show of paternalism or lesson-giving," said a government spokesman responding to criticism by the French press for backing the winner of a bogus election out of pure expediency. "It is not the French role."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Violence broke out in Ivory Coast after the military regime fell and opposition leaders sought to take power. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); COTE D'IVOIRE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RWANDA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); COTE D'IVOIRE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RWANDA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



768 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The World: Snapshot of Despair;
The Deathly Glamour of Martyrdom

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES

DATELINE: GAZA

 BODY:
RABAH EL-LOH, 23, stood one afternoon in front of the shallow pit where the body of his brother, Raid, killed in clashes with Israeli soldiers, had just been set down. The funeral had taken all morning and thousands of angry mourners milled around the barren cemetery in Gaza.
"Goodbye brother," he said. "Say hello to the other martyrs." 
 Gaza is a derelict collection of boxy concrete structures, a slum of about one million people on a flat, dry piece of land about twice the size of Washington D.C. A haze of grit and dust hovers in air fouled by untreated sewage, and the young men, many of whom are unemployed, loiter in groups in the streets.
Everywhere, the walls of Gaza are plastered with poster-size photographs of those who have died in the recent clashes. Many are pictured holding a weapon in front of the gold-topped Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem.
The odd thing is that these are studio shots, like a bizarre version of a high school yearbook photo, taken long before the current unrest.
The gun is a prop, the glittering mosque is a large photograph. What was real, apparently, was the desire of these young men to fight against Israel and for a Palestinian state, and to invite death in the process. And now, at least until the pictures fade or peel away, the young men will have their deed recognized.
The decision by Raid to become a martyr was a conscious one, based, his family said, on despair of life in the Gaza Strip, hatred for Israel and a belief that not to sacrifice himself was to dishonor those who had gone before. "He spoke only of this, of being a martyr for the last four or five days," said his mother, Fatma. "I asked him not to go. But once his younger brother was wounded, he felt that it was his duty. When he left I said God be with you. I knew he would never come back."
In Gaza, those who die fighting Israel are carried on a stretcher through the streets, their bodies covered in Palestinian flags. Impassioned crowds of people swarm around the pallbearers chanting, waving flags and vowing to follow the example of the dead. Bereaved parents sit under white canopies in the blocked-off streets and serve bitter coffee and dates to lines of visitors, including uniformed members of Mr. Arafat's Palestinian police.
"Tell the man what you want to be," said Hyam Temraz to her 2-year-old son Abed, as she peeped out of the slit of a black veil.
"A martyr," the child answered.
 "We were in Jordan when my son Baraa was 4," she said. "He saw a Jordanian soldier and ran and hugged him. He asked him if it was he who would liberate Palestine. He has always told me that he would be a martyr and that one day I would dig his grave."
Nezar Rayyan, 42, a theology professor at Islamic University, is a large man with a thick black beard and the quiet gravitas of someone who has spent much of his life reading. On the walls of his office are black and white photographs that illustrate the history of Palestinians over the last five decades. They show lines of trucks carrying refugees from their villages in 1948, after the United Nations formally created Israel and the new state was attacked by its Arab neighbors. They show the hovels of new refugee camps after the 1967 war. And they show the gutted remains of Palestinian villages in what are now Israel.
Mr. Rayyan's grandfather and great-uncle were killed in the 1948 war. His grandmother died after she and Mr. Rayyan's father were forced from their village near Ashkelon. His father, who eventually settled in the Jabalya refugee camp in Gaza, was passed between relatives and grew up with the bitterness of the dispossessed.
It was a bitterness the father passed on to the son and the son has assiduously passed on to the grandchildren. "There was not a single night that we did not think and talk about Palestine," Mr. Rayyan said, his eyes moist. "We were taught that our lives must be devoted to reclaiming our land."
MR. RAYYAN spent 12 years in an Israeli jail for his pursuit of that end. His brother-in-law was a suicide bomber who blew up an Israeli bus in 1998. His brother was shot dead by Israelis in street protests seven years ago. Another brother was expelled to Lebanon and several more were wounded in clashes.
Today, his three sons -- ages 12, 15 and 16 -- daily join the youths who throw rocks at Israeli checkpoints. All, he said, yearn to be one thing -- martyrs for Palestine.
"I pray only that God will choose them," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 12-year-old Palestinian killed in clashes with Israeli soldiers in Gaza. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



769 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
There'll Be a Quiz On This Tomorrow

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Using materials found in your home, design assignments that will allow schools in the United States to keep up with those in other countries, allow parents to keep up with the Joneses, but will not keep students up at night. In your answer, you should consider the influence of the Horatio Alger narratives on American society and the impact of longer working hours on the average American family. Parents should be involved, but not too involved. Remember to factor in time for soccer, piano lessons, family togetherness, and a healthy dose of childhood exploration and fun (your answer should define healthy). Those who do not ultimately secure a good job will receive a failing mark. Extra credit for those who gain admission to a college in the U.S. News and World Report Top 20.
STUMPED? Don't feel bad. Homework isn't really about doing work. It's about what homework stands for. 
 Reviled and even banned as recently as 50 years ago, homework has become what one author calls a "virtual icon of our culture," a culture that admires long hours as the way to the American dream. But that admiration has always been undercut by the question: Is all the work worth it?
This conflict was on display earlier this year, when the school board in Piscataway, N.J., limited nightly assignments and prohibited teachers from grading homework. Parents across the country phoned the district's superintendent to applaud him for his sanity. Others, though, railed at the decline of standards in America.
The homework pendulum has swung back and forth over the last 150 years. Public health advocates declared homework "child labor" in the 1930's, when it was banned in some cities and limited by state law in California.
Then, in 1957, the Soviets launched Sputnik, creating fear that America would lose the "space race" because its kids weren't getting a good science education. Yet another shock hit in 1983, when "A Nation at Risk," a report by the National Commission on Excellence in Education, warned that a "rising tide of mediocrity" was threatening the nation's preeminence in industry, business, and technology. In both cases, homework was seen as a way to improve schools and safeguard the nation.
To this day, said Brian Gill, a researcher at the RAND Corporation and co-author of a 1996 article titled " 'A Sin Against Childhood': Progressive Education and the Crusade to Abolish Homework, 1897-1941," there is a widespread feeling that the educational system is in crisis. One response has been to triple the average homework load of the youngest students since 1981.
But although some studies suggest that homework improves student test scores, others don't. The broadest of transnational studies, the Third International Math and Science Study in 1995, found no link between homework and achievement. For example, Japanese eighth graders got less homework than their American counterparts, but far outperformed them.
One reason Americans hold so tightly to homework is that it is wedded to two cherished national myths. It is the cauldron in which immigrants melt into the melting pot. And it is the ladder that anyone who works hard can climb to the top.
"For some parents homework is about 'You are in second grade and I want you on that Ivy League track, and one of the ways I can do that is to make sure that you are busy,' " said Jeffrey M. Young, superintendent of schools in Newton, Mass.
Homework becomes a status symbol, proof that a school and a child are of a certain caliber. Outlining the 10 purposes of homework, Joyce L. Epstein, director of the Center on School, Family and Community Partnerships at Johns Hopkins University, identifies one as public relations. Schools are judged, she said, by how much homework they give. Juliet B. Schor, a Harvard professor and author of "The Overworked American," and "The Overspent American," recently overheard one parent boast that her child attended the better of two schools in town because it assigned more homework in kindergarten.
But what of those parents, in Piscataway and elsewhere, who complain of too much homework? Mr. Young and other superintendents say they are as numerous as the parents demanding more work.
A recent by the Public Agenda Foundation, a nonprofit research group, showed that a mere 10 percent of parents think their children have too much homework, and 64 percent say they receive about the right amount. Last year, another of the group's surveys found that 50 percent of parents had had a serious argument over homework and 34 percent identified it as a "source of struggle and stress."
The two findings are not inconsistent, said Deborah Wadsworth, president of Public Agenda. Rather they indicate the conflict most parents feel. They hate the stress and struggle of homework, but also want their children to do well.
Maybe that anxiety is what homework stands for. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%); RAND CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOMEWORK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (77%); CHILD LABOR (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



770 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Drawn And Quartered

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Devotees of good bad movies fondly recall that very 60's spy spoof "The President's Analyst." The protagonist was pursued by various powerful, sinister organizations, including the government of Canada. But the most powerful of all was T.P.C. -- The Phone Company.
That was then. Now what's left of AT&T, reduced by legislation and competition to at best first among equals in the telecommunications industry, has declared that it will split itself again. The dream of rebuilding AT&T's empire in the new worlds of the new economy has been abandoned. 
 What's peculiar about this move is that the company has hardly bothered to offer a conventional business justification for breaking itself up.
Other things being equal, a company that straddles several related lines of business ought to reap important advantages. Of course, other things are not always equal: a company that is too sprawling becomes unfocused. Finding the right scope -- making the best tradeoff between the synergy that comes from being in several related businesses and the disadvantages of a scattered focus -- is famously difficult.
But today's AT&T does not look like an unwieldy, unfocused conglomerate. On the contrary, there ought to be considerable advantages to having the same company offer long-distance service, wireless service and broadband access to the Internet. AT&T executives say the new entities will be more "nimble"; why, exactly? And the breakup itself will be costly and disruptive. Why are they doing this?
The answer, it seems, is that AT&T thinks that the financial markets are stupid.
AT&T management apparently believes that if it spins off its "new economy" operations -- wireless and broadband -- the stocks of those operations will sell at such high prices that the overall market value of the company's constituent parts will rise, even if the combined profits from those parts decline. This can only be true if today's company is severely undervalued, or if AT&T-in-pieces will be severely overvalued, or both. So you have to believe that the markets can't see that the sum of the parts is no more, and probably less, than the whole.
Now markets do go wrong. When investors were in the grip of dot-com mania, companies that spun off their techier parts did, temporarily, create stockholder value out of thin air. But that was a short-lived bubble; it seems much less likely that such financial razzle-dazzle would work now. Anyway, should the management of a major U.S. corporation base its long-run business strategy on the belief that markets will consistently be stupid?
But then, should the U.S. government base its long-term Social Security strategy on the same belief?
For what struck me about the dubious premise behind the AT&T breakup is that a similar premise underlies many proposals for privatizing Social Security. George W. Bush's proposal, admittedly, does not count on the stupidity of markets. Instead, he trusts the people: voters are not supposed to notice that the same pool of money is promised to two different groups of recipients.
But the real plan, the one that gets announced after the election, would probably involve sharply reducing the benefits promised to workers, in return for the right to invest their Social Security taxes in stocks. And they will be assured that stocks are such a good investment -- a far higher yield than you get on bonds, with hardly any risk -- that it's a great deal.
The question you should ask is: If stocks are really such a good investment, why does anyone buy bonds? The market must be stupid, consistently pricing stocks too low. And there is some evidence that in the past stocks often were underpriced. But that past underpricing does not mean that you should believe that stocks will always be underpriced. Markets go wrong, but they aren't predictably stupid. Indeed, one way to interpret the great bull market of the 90's is that it involved a correction of that previous underpricing. If so, the era of high returns with low risk is already over -- and basing national policy on the assumption that it will continue is as silly as basing corporate strategy on the belief that the dot-com bubble will rise again.
It's a shame to see one of America's corporate icons broken up on the basis of a dubious financial theory. But if the same happens to one of our most crucial social programs, it won't be a shame -- it will be a tragedy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); BROADBAND (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



771 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY;
Oh, to Be an Alaskan in October

 BODY:
October may have been a tough month for the stock market, but it was profitable, as usual, for Alaskans.
By now, every man, woman and child who has lived in the state for at least a calendar year should have received an annual dividend check from the Alaska Permanent Fund. This year, a record $1,963.86 was distributed to each of the 585,800 eligible residents. 
 The fund was set up about two decades ago as a way for Alaska to support itself after its oil fields run dry. Half of the fund's annual earnings are reinvested; the other half are distributed to Alaskans every October.
Like many other investors, the state fund has profited from the booming stock market of recent years, growing from nearly $15 billion in 1995 to just under $28 billion this year. Likewise, the annual dividend has grown rapidly -- in 1995, Alaskans received $990.30 each.
The annual windfall fuels a spending spree, which accounts for as much as 10 percent of annual spending in Alaska, according to state economists.
"One can attribute a lot of the growth in the Alaskan economy in the last decade to the growing dividend," Scott Goldsmith, an economics professor at the University of Alaska at Anchorage, said in a recent interview with The Associated Press. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ALASKA, USA (95%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIVIDENDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCOTT C GOLDSMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



772 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Tex-Prep Haunting

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
I'm getting excited just thinking about it. I'm dreaming of that moment when the thrill returns.
All those Texas fat cats landing at Reagan airport, wing to jowl, in their Lear jets. All those monogrammed snakeskin cowboy boots and Neiman Marcus fur coats. All those familiar Establishment suits lumbering in to claim their rightful places at the Cabinet table. Dick Cheney -- the Britney Spears for middle-aged white men -- back in the West Wing saddle. Lee Greenwood back at the inaugural. Aerobic golf at Kennebunkport. The horseshoe pit restored outside the Oval. The English language once more under siege by an American president. 
 Happy Halloween! We could be fixin' for the big Washington premiere of "Book of Shadows: Bush 2."
Last week I watched Al Gore growling and fending off Bill Clinton and still struggling to lay claim to his own administration's tumescent economy. And I watched W. bristling with confidence, giving a good speech in Pittsburgh and cozying up to John McCain and Colin Powell.
I had to sit very quietly and absorb the fact that I might be on my way back to the future. Were we on the eve of restoration?
Given that Bush 1 (self-made Midland bidnessman, Yale grad and sports enthusiast with a bookish, plain-spoken wife whose project is literacy) was fired by voters when the economy foundered, and given that the Bush name was anathema in the G.O.P. for years, it is surreal that we may be only moments away from Bush 2 (self-made Midland bidnessman, Yale grad and sports enthusiast with a bookish, plain-spoken wife whose project is literacy).
The world has been transformed in the last eight years, with cyberspace colonized and the Internet infiltrating every corner of life.
And yet, the Republican gang that couldn't shoot straight on the economy is ready for its close-up.
Angry white men have become fat, happy white men. And W., with his sunny emptiness and a tax plan that will protect the windfalls reaped in the Clinton-Gore years, is their guy.
Now comes another antsy President Bush who reads sporadically and prefers reports to be delivered orally. It just proves the staying power of the Establishment. The insiders simply call themselves outsiders and say they disdain Washington and big government, and then gullible voters send the inside-outsiders right back here to make government bigger, their resumes longer and their private-sector contacts wider for future "self-made" cashing-in.
The capital has been much duller since the nasty Congressional Republicans faded into the background. It was so exhilarating when Newt Gingrich and his helmet-haired henchmen were shutting down the government, eliminating school lunches, cutting granny's Medicare, impeaching the president and mocking Barney Frank.
We lost sight of Newt's successors, those vivacious valets of viciousness -- Trent Lott, Tom Delay and Dick Armey -- when the Bush campaign hid them in a lockbox. But now we are on the verge of welcoming these bully boys front and center again, as they resume ramming their conservative agenda down America's throat.
The Hill Republicans have been secretly sniggering at their nominee's blarney, all that chuckleheaded stuff about compassionate conservatism and bridging-the-partisan-gap.
Civility is not their preferred special interest. And they think it will be easy to maneuver the tyro W., whose schedule could well make Ronald Reagan's look grueling, to be even more generous to pharmaceutical companies, monopolies like Microsoft, big polluters and big businesses looking to limit lawsuits.
In Bush 2, we'll get to see more of that shrinking violet, Clarence Thomas. As one of President W.'s favorite justices, and as someone touted by conservatives as a potential chief justice in a Bush regime, he will come into his own. Perhaps the Anita Hill episode won't be the thing Justice Thomas is remembered for; perhaps overturning Roe v. Wade will.
And it will be so reassuring to have Charlton Heston packing heat -- trigger treat! -- doing glam drop-bys at D.C. restaurants and dinner parties, once the N.R.A. opens up that office in the Bush White House it's been bragging about.
I'm breathless with anticipation. How about you? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); SPORTS FANS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); HALLOWEEN (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (56%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); BRITNEY SPEARS (56%); AL GORE (54%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



773 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Double Vision;
How Bush and Gore View the Role of Government

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
TEDDY ROOSEVELT would have gotten an enormous kick out of the last days of this year's campaign for president.
Ninety-nine years after the Republican who laid the foundations of the modern welfare state took office -- offending his own party with plans to bust big trusts while protecting those left behind in a booming economy -- the two candidates for president are caught in an age-old dispute about big government, smart government and activist government. 
Sure, the issues have changed. There were no personal income taxes to cut in T.R.'s day, no huge national debt to shrink, and the federal government employed only 239,476 people, a figure that, at the time, was considered an outrage. (It employs roughly 2.8 million now.)
But as the campaign comes down to its last nine days, Al Gore and George W. Bush have reverted to a fundamental argument about the role of the federal government in everyday life that had Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson spitting at each other, and fueled the critics of Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson.
Not surprisingly, each candidate is now trying to depict the other in stereotypical terms. The Bush campaign desperately wants to cast the vice president as a Democratic caricature: spending big, promising big, regulating big and using the tax code to interfere with your life. Meanwhile, Mr. Gore's operation wants Americans to dismiss the Texas governor as a captive of big business, who will sacrifice the middle class in the name of cutting the government.
Some of this fits; much does not. Al Gore is the first Democrat in memory with the luxury or the record to run on a platform of wiping out the national debt in 12 years. George W. Bush is the first Republican to try to reach the Oval Office by talking seriously about federal education standards and new prescription drug benefits. Each candidate, in short, is striving to transform the traditional image of his own party.
Just listen to the stump speeches last week. There was Mr. Bush in Arlington Heights, Ill., on Tuesday, his hand chopping the air, explaining how he would save Social Security and Medicare -- programs that, more than a half-century ago, Republican nominees for president decried as "creeping socialism." (Meanwhile, he was also telling the undecided that Mr. Gore "wants to increase the size and scope of the federal government more than Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis combined. That's pretty big.")
Mr. Gore, stumping in states he should have in the bag, but doesn't, was straining to sound like T.R. himself. "I certainly don't want to ever see another era of special interests who wield more power than the American people have," he told one Arkansas crowd. The next day he portrayed his opponent as the favorite of "big oil companies and the chemical manufacturers and the other big polluters."
Viewed one way, this is another skirmish in the endless struggle in American politics between the power of government and the power of capital. Viewed another, it is the latest pass at the debate over the merits and evils of big government. "There's nothing in this debate we haven't heard time and time again for 20 years," said Alan Brinkley, a professor of history at Columbia University. "Except for the part we've been hearing for a hundred years."
But a century ago, big government was easier to understand. When politicians talk about it these days, they are really talking about three very different things.
At their most literal, they mean an expanding federal bureaucracy. Everyone's against that, until paring down a bloated federal bureaucracy means closing the local military base. But the fact of the matter is that diatribes against a big federal bureaucracy don't resonate on the stump these days the way they did in Ronald Reagan's heyday. Maybe that is because the economy is so strong. Maybe it is because the surge in federal employment on President Reagan's watch in the 1980's has been steadily reversed every year since 1990. (Of course, many federal government tasks have been shifted to the states.)
Then there is the second kind of big government, the one that taxes and regulates, and uses those powers to reshape the nation. This is the kind Mr. Bush complains about most frequently, and what he says is music to tens of millions of ears. But it is also a dangerous game, because the goal posts keep changing.
In the 1930's, Republicans furiously battled F.D.R.'s creation of the Social Security program. Their objections, and those of powerful businesses, led to the exclusion of millions of workers. Now, no Republican would dare oppose Social Security or the Medicare program that followed. No one will even breathe the suggestion that these benefits might be cut. (Though they might be delayed until a later retirement age.) So the argument is an elaborate dance about whether and how to expand existing programs while remaining compassionate and conservative.
"What this comes down to is pretty classic: Americans now trust government to do a lot, certainly much more than they used to," says Michael Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University, who is the author of "The Populist Persuasion: An American History." "But they are scared of it doing new things."
THEN there is the third genre of big government: an activist government, one that uses its clout to do battle with powerful private interests. But it's a role that leaves many new Democrats uneasy.
The White House has made life miserable for the tobacco industry, sued the firearms makers, and made threatening noises about breaking up Microsoft. But it has also refocused the country's foreign policy to promote exports, signed more than 300 trade deals, and made the world safe for Motorola in Japan and General Motors in China.
All this has changed the nature of the Democratic Party. What was the party of protectionism has become the party of export promotion, over the objections of its union supporters. It has met the microprocessor and discovered, lo and behold, that chips create millions of new jobs. Unfortunately, these same chips are made with deadly toxic chemicals that have to be dumped somewhere.
SO Mr. Gore has a problem. The populist, old Democrat side of his brain wants to rail about the evils of all those chemical companies and oil firms that have, to listen to his television ads, turned Houston into the American version of Bhopal. On the other hand, he is surrounded by advisers, from former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin to his own running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who visibly wince when the vice president takes his corporate-bashing rhetoric too far.
Mr. Gore, in short, wants it both ways. He wants to show he can be an old Democrat and a new Democrat. He has no problem bashing a few special interests one day, then talking up permanent research and development tax credits for them the next. He wants to preserve his environmental base -- that was the old Mr. Gore waxing eloquent about the dangers of global warming on Thursday -- while still reassuring the country that he won't put the environment ahead of economic growth.
This explains why Mr. Gore, who a decade ago proposed high taxes on fossil fuels to conserve energy and clean the air, arranged last month to release 30 million barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to lower the price at the pump.
Mr. Bush, meanwhile, wants credit both as a traditional Republican and a compassionate one. So he mocks Mr. Gore's targeted tax cuts for owners of energy-saving cars, saying that under his plan, almost everyone gets a lower tax bill.
BUT Mr. Bush has targeted tax breaks of his own, including one to bail out farmers from the effects of low prices for their goods, another to expand education savings accounts, and another to encourage more charitable gifts.
So both men have shifted away from the traditional images of their party and -- perhaps -- the expectations of how they would govern. Mr. Bush's Republicans, as he describes them, envision themselves playing a more activist role in society. And Mr. Gore's Democrats say they want to promote entrepreneurial freedom, even while regulating the market's excesses. It's easy to imagine Teddy Roosevelt ridiculing both.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); MEDICARE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (62%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



774 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: Al Gore for President

 BODY:
Despite all the complaints about the difficulty of falling in love with either Al Gore or George W. Bush, these two very different men have delivered a clean, well-argued campaign that offers a choice between two sharply contrasting visions of the future. Even though Vice President Gore is a centrist Democrat and Governor Bush has presented himself as the most moderate Republican nominee in a generation, they have sketched very different pictures of the role of government and how actively the president should help families secure adequate education, health care and retirement. This is also the first presidential campaign in recent history centered on an argument over how best to use real, bird-in-the-hand resources to address age-old domestic problems while also defining the United States' role in a world evermore dependent on it for farsighted international leadership.
Having listened to their debate, we today firmly endorse Al Gore as the man best equipped for the presidency by virtue of his knowledge of government, his experience at the top levels of federal and diplomatic decision-making, and his devotion to the general welfare. We offer this endorsement knowing that Mr. Bush is not without his strong points and that Mr. Gore has his weaknesses. But the vice president has struggled impressively and successfully to escape the shadow of the Clinton administration's ethical lapses, and we believe that he would never follow Bill Clinton's example of reckless conduct that cheapens the presidency. Like Senator John McCain, Mr. Gore has been chastened by personal experience with sleazy fund-raising. He has promised to make campaign finance reform his first legislative priority, whereas Mr. Bush is unwilling to endorse the elimination of special-interest money from American politics. 
 We commend Mr. Bush for running a largely positive, inclusive campaign. He has not reviled government like Ronald Reagan in 1980 or played on divisive social themes as his father did in 1988. But on women's rights, guns and law-enforcement issues, he has a harsh agenda, and the centerpiece of his domestic program is a lavish tax cut for the rich that would negate the next Congress's once-in-a-century opportunity to move the country toward universal health care and stabilization of Social Security and Medicare.
 
Leadership
Mr. Bush has asked to be judged by something more than his positions. He offers himself as an experienced leader who would end the culture of bickering in Washington and use wisdom and resoluteness in dealing with domestic social problems and international crises. But his resume is too thin for the nation to bet on his growing into the kind of leader he claims already to be. He does have great personal charm. But Mr. Bush's main professional experience was running a baseball team financed by friends and serving for six years as governor in a state where the chief executive has limited budgetary and operational powers. His three debates with Mr. Gore exposed an uneasiness with foreign policy that cannot be erased by his promise to have heavyweight advisers. John F. Kennedy, as a far more seasoned new president, struggled through the Cuban missile crisis while his senior advisers offered contradictory advice on how to confront a Soviet military threat on America's doorstep. The job description is for commander in chief, not advisee in chief.
The vice president has admitted to his limitations as a speaker. But Al Gore has a heart -- and a mind -- prepared for presidential-scale challenges. When it comes to the details of policy making, he will not need on-the-job training.
 
Taxes and the Economy
Preserving the nation's remarkable prosperity must be considered the thematic spine of this election. Mr. Gore helped stiffen Mr. Clinton's resolve to maintain the budgetary discipline that erased the federal deficit, stimulated productivity and invigorated the financial markets. Now, Mr. Gore and his running mate, Senator Joseph Lieberman, promise to maintain fiscal rigor while using the surplus on spending programs and tax breaks for the working families that profited least from the biggest boom in American history. More specifically, Mr. Gore would seize this opportunity to improve the environment and spend more money to hire teachers and build schools. We like his capitalism with a conscience more than the trickle-down sound of Mr. Bush's compassionate conservatism.
To be blunter, Mr. Bush's entire economic program is built on a stunning combination of social inequity and flawed economic theory. He would spend more than half the $2.2 trillion non-Social Security surplus on a tax cut at a time when the economy does not need that stimulus. Moreover, as Mr. Gore has said repeatedly and truthfully, over 40 percent of the money would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers. Mr. Bush would expand some programs for schools, but he also embraces the Republicans' ideologically driven approach of using vouchers to transfer money from public to private schools. There is nothing compassionate or conservative about blowing the surplus on windfalls for the wealthy instead of investing it in fair tax relief and well-designed social programs.
The nation's biggest domestic need remains universal access to health care. Neither candidate would move as fast as we would like. But Mr. Gore has outlined steps that would start us down the road to covering the 45 million uninsured Americans. He would expand Medicare, guarantee prescription drugs for seniors and provide more opportunity for the uninsured to obtain coverage. Mr. Bush favors a bipartisan approach on these issues, but his proposals have seemed reactive rather than driven by an inner passion.
Mr. Gore's commitment to Social Security is deeply rooted, too, and more responsible. His proposal to supplement the system with personal investment retirement accounts is superior to Mr. Bush's plan to privatize part of the system. The governor's scheme would siphon money out of Social Security at the very moment when both seniors and younger taxpayers want to see long-term fixes to ensure its solvency.
 
Foreign Policy
Upon his arrival in Washington more than two decades ago, Mr. Gore set out to master the intricacies of arms control and foreign policy. He broke with his party to support the war against Iraq in 1991. He was an advocate of military force in the Balkans, and today he calls for a more muscular approach to using American forces to protect the country's security interests and prevent genocidal conflicts abroad.
We have expressed concern here that Mr. Gore might sometimes be too eager to project power overseas. But it is also true that Mr. Bush's repeated objections to using troops for peacekeeping and nation-building do not add up to a mature national-security vision. Neither does his promise to rely on his running mate, former Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, and his likely secretary of state, the retired general Colin Powell.
Mr. Gore will have advisers, but he will not need a minder. He understands that in order to influence the allies an American president must lead from the front. He has already been eye to eye with the world's leaders. While Mr. Bush has a contracting definition of national security, Mr. Gore has been in the forefront of redefining it to include issues of health and environment and the containment of regional conflicts that can metastasize into threats to world peace.
 
Rights and Values
Mr. Gore has said that abortion rights are on the ballot in this election. So are other issues such as civil liberties, environmental protection and gun control. The next president may appoint up to five Supreme Court justices and thereby exercise a lasting impact on the daily lives of Americans. A court tilted by conservative Bush appointees could overturn Roe v. Wade and assert a doctrine of states' rights that would take environmental protection out of federal hands. Ralph Nader and his supporters are not simply being delusional when they say there is no real difference between these candidates. They are being dishonest, and dangerously so.
Mr. Gore brings a lifelong record of protecting basic rights for women, minorities and gays, while Mr. Bush has almost no record at all. The vice president has been the driving force in this administration's environmental successes, and he understands the need for federal regulation for environmental tasks like saving the Everglades and for American leadership to combat global warming. Mr. Bush is for an unrealistic regimen of negotiating with industry on air and water problems and for letting the oil companies loose in sensitive areas.
 
The Real Choice
Most citizens know that Mr. Gore wins any comparison with Mr. Bush on experience and knowledge. Yet many voters seem more comfortable with Mr. Bush's personality and are tempted to gamble on him. We do not dismiss this desire for someone who they feel does not talk down to them and would come to the White House free of any connection to Mr. Clinton's excesses. But it is important to remember that the nation's prosperity, its environmental progress and its guarantees of civil rights and reproductive freedom took years to build. They could be undone in a flash by a pliable and inexperienced president driven by a highly ideological Congress.
Mr. Gore does have a tendency to be patronizing and to exaggerate. But he has a career of accomplishment that can stand on its own without exaggeration. Despite his uneven performance in the debates, the content of his campaign in these final days demonstrates how much he has grown in the last year. Voting for him is not a gamble on unknown potential.
We support Albert Gore Jr. with the firm belief that he will go just as far in bringing "honor and dignity" back to the White House as Mr. Bush, and that he will bring an extra measure of talent and conviction as well. His seriousness of purpose, his commitment to American leadership in the world and his concern for those less fortunate in American society convince us that he will lead the country into a creative, productive and progressive era at the beginning of the 21st century. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); ETHICS (72%); WOMEN (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); BASEBALL (62%); TAX LAW (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



775 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 3576 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DECISION;
For Bush, His Toughest Call Was the Choice to Run at All

SERIES: GOVERNOR BUSH'S JOURNEY: The Decision

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
Karen P. Hughes, one of Gov. George W. Bush's top aides, walked into the governor's office one day in the summer of 1997 and brandished a sheet of paper.
"You're leading in the poll," she told Mr. Bush, who had held public office for only two years. 
 "What poll?" he asked.
Aides recall that she explained that it was the first presidential poll for the 2000 election. Mr. Bush, who had much less experience in government than most state legislators around the country, was the front-runner among Republicans.
For a man who had never been particularly driven by ambition, whose overseas experience was pretty much limited to trying to date Chinese women (unsuccessfully) during a visit to Beijing in 1975, it was surreal suddenly to be at the top of the charts.
Moreover, he was curiously ambivalent about the prize, delaying any decision about whether to run because of concern about the high price of the presidency in terms of lost privacy and freedom.
Mr. Bush's candidacy began like a rumor, evanescent and insubstantial but growing on thousands of tongues. Partly on its own, and partly orchestrated by Mr. Bush's political strategist, Karl Rove, the bandwagon began to move: governors dropped by to pay their respects, speaking invitations poured in, policy experts and Republican gurus came by to bless the noncandidacy, and abruptly he found himself under much greater scrutiny than ever before.
All this was flattering but constraining. For a man whose language when relaxed has always had a salty tinge, it was a burden to expunge four-letter words from his daily vocabulary. But he made the sacrifice.
He also fretted about the distortions and misstatements that invariably swirl around presidential candidates.
When a right-wing friend reproached Mr. Bush for supposedly having said "God damn," Mr. Bush erupted in a string of expletives. As the friend remembers it, Mr. Bush finally cooled down and gave examples of the obscenities and vulgarities he uses, but added fiercely that he does not take God's name in vain.
In his first term of office, Mr. Bush deferred discussion of a presidential run, focusing first on his re-election bid in 1998.
"His basic point was, 'go ahead, we'll do reasonable things to keep open the possibility' " of a presidential bid, Mr. Rove recalled. As a result, Mr. Bush did some travel out of the state, worked on fund-raising, and undertook a series of tutorials to learn more about federal and foreign policy. But Mr. Rove added, "I wasn't confident at all that he would make the decision to run. I know him too well."
In the end, Mr. Bush walloped his opponent in 1998, winning 69 percent of the vote and becoming the first Texas governor elected to a second, consecutive four-year term. Once re-elected, Mr. Bush turned to the question of the presidency and began grappling with what friends say were his two main concerns: his family and his past.
Friends say that his wife, Laura, and his twin girls, now 18 and beginning college, were not opposed to his running, but that they worried about what the race would mean for their privacy. The girls, the more studious Barbara and the more outgoing Jenna, already were sensitive to the impact on their lives of having a politician as father.
Once in 1994, when Mr. Bush was running for governor, he went to pick up his daughters from a party. But they had forbidden him to go inside, and so, as he recalled it, he obediently waited in his car for a half-hour until they emerged on their own, even as other parents wandered in and out.
On another occasion, when he was already governor, Mr. Bush teased Jenna about phone calls from a boyfriend, forgetting that a television crew was in the house filming the decoration of the governor's Christmas tree. The footage was broadcast, and Jenna was mortified -- and furious.
All this left his family wondering what a presidential bid would mean to their lives. In 1998, the Bushes invited their friends Bob and Jan Bullock to a Christmas Eve dinner, and Mr. Bullock turned to the two girls and said, "Your dad needs to run for president, and you all got to support him in doing this."
"Little Jenna Bush had tears in her eyes," Mrs. Bullock recalled. "And the governor, too."
"Jenna replied, she just sort of said, 'So are we going to have the Secret Service following us around?' And George said, 'We can talk about that later on.' "
Friends say that Mr. Bush might have preferred to wait until 2004 before running for the presidency, to acquire more experience and give his daughters the chance to mature more. But he sometimes compared himself to a cork in a river, and he acknowledged that the currents were particularly auspicious for 2000 -- what with an open Republican field and a scandal-plagued Democratic administration -- and might not again give him the opportunity.
One insight into Mr. Bush's reasoning comes from a seven-page memo sent to him on Nov. 2, 1998, on the eve of his re-election as governor. It was already clear that he was going to win overwhelmingly.
The memo, faxed to him by Doug Wead, a long-time adviser, said: "You've been struggling with the idea that running for president could 'ruin' the lives of your daughters." But in a section headed "Jenna and Barbara's great adventure," the memo argued that a presidential bid could be an opportunity for the girls.
"They would meet many of the nation's greatest heroes, some who have overcome great adversity," Mr. Wead wrote. "They would be exposed to tragedy, people dying of cancer and AIDS. There is no reason why they could not come out of the campaign with poise and a knowledge of life far beyond their years," he wrote.
"You say you worry about the Secret Service following them through college. Well, that's not all bad. For one thing, your daughters will be reassuringly safe, which is the first consideration of most parents. They are not likely to get killed in an automobile accident or be murdered, which are the two most common causes of death by teenagers. Likewise, they are not likely to be able to experiment with drugs or alcohol until they are too mature to care."
The memo acknowledges that "the mud will come," but it adds that a remarkable alignment of factors made a run uniquely favorable in 2000. These included Mr. Bush being financially secure with the sale of the Texas Rangers baseball team; his high ranking in the polls; a sense among many Republicans that they needed a new leader; and a sympathy among some journalists toward conservative candidates after disenchantment with the Clinton presidency.
"You have been given a great opportunity, an opportunity that has been denied to many who have sought it," the memo ended. "It is a gift that has rarely been extended. It may not be extended again. Take it."
 
Protective of His Past
Friends say that one of Mr. Bush's key reservations about a presidential bid was his past: he did not want reporters prying around in it.
It is unclear just why Mr. Bush is so sensitive about his background. He has admitted having been "irresponsible" in a way that suggests he may have used illegal drugs, serious questions remain about how he got into the National Guard and whether he fulfilled his obligations, and chunks of his life remain rather mysterious. But plenty of journalists and Democratic investigators have been digging, and nothing particularly sensational has been proved.
Whatever his reason, Mr. Bush prefers to keep a veil over his past. He did not cooperate with his two principal biographers, Bill Minutaglio and Elizabeth Mitchell, even though both in the end wrote books that in many ways are quite sympathetic to him.
"He got it in his head that the Minutaglio book was going to be damaging," recalled a friend of Mr. Bush's who says he discussed it with him. "All this stuff about drugs and women was out there and he thought it was going to be the focus."
Then along came a different opportunity. Mickey Herskowitz, a Houston Chronicle sports columnist and a longtime friend of the Bushes, called to propose a ghost-written autobiography of Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush and his aides agreed, and Mr. Bush gave Mr. Herskowitz a series of interviews. But there were a series of collisions, according to a person involved in the project.
The first occurred when Mr. Herskowitz suggested that the book begin with Mr. Bush's sense of a family legacy. The campaign was horrified; the last thing it wanted was to remind voters that he was the scion of a political family.
The result was that in August, the campaign took over the book project from Mr. Herskowitz, and Ms. Hughes began to write the book herself. The deadline was exceptionally tight, and campaign aides say she wrote it based on Mr. Bush's speeches and her own knowledge of him. Ms. Hughes declined to comment on the book.
Just a single paragraph recounts how Mr. Bush's daughter Barbara lost her stuffed dog, Spikey, while visiting her grandparents. It adds that Vice President Bush spent the night roaming the residence looking for Spikey, even though it was the middle of his presidential campaign and he had a presidential debate the next day. The paragraph relates that Grandpa Bush persisted until he found Spikey, enabling little Barbara to sleep peacefully.
It is a charming story. But it also seems to be riddled with about as many errors as a paragraph could contain. According to a 1990 account of the same incident by the governor's mother, Barbara Bush, Spikey was a cat rather than a dog, Vice President Bush gave up after a fruitless search, Spikey was not found until the next day, and the incident happened in 1987 rather than 1988. President and Mrs. Bush confirmed through a spokesman that they did not recall that Spikey's disappearance occurred on the eve of a debate.
Much of the "autobiography" is so meager and bears so few of Mr. Bush's own fingerprints that to some reviewers it simply underscored his lack of depth. As the Amazon.com review said: "George W. has been labeled a lightweight by some; 'A Charge to Keep' will do nothing to dispel that notion."
Mr. Bush agreed to give two interviews for this series of biographical articles. And although he is normally charming, there were times when he bristled over questions about his past.
Asked about his high school grades, for example, he said: "I don't have any idea. So go pilfer the files like somebody else did back East." (He was referring to the leak of his Yale grades to The New Yorker.)
"I'm sure it's discouraging to you," Mr. Bush said later in the same interview, in April. "But it's not my favorite deal to talk about myself. So I'm sitting here trying to figure out what the heck you're going to write. And generally it's not anything I like to read, so it's kind of an awkward moment for both of us.
"It's a tough assignment, I know, particularly since I've been -- I guess there's going to be a jillion of profiles written. But it's not as if you're breaking a lot of new ground, unfortunately in your case, which makes me even more nervous because you'll try to break ground."
Mr. Bush paused and added sourly: "Not really."
 
Standing by His Principles
While Mr. Bush may not always impress people with his depth, he does convey a certain solidity.
He has avoided scandal and is more willing than many candidates to tell audiences what he thinks rather than what the listeners want to hear. Likewise, for all his success in raising campaign money, he never turned the governor's office into a funds factory.
While he invited many people to sleep over in the Texas governor's mansion, just as President Clinton did at the White House, there is no sign that the Texas visits were rewards for campaign contributors.
A list of the 533 overnight guests in the governor's mansion during Mr. Bush's administration, obtained after requests through the Texas public information law, shows that the Bushes typically had 5 to 10 overnight guests a month. But overwhelmingly they were old family friends or relatives, like Laura Bush's Southern Methodist University sorority sisters.
Some invitations apparently had a political motivation, for the guests included potential rivals, like Steve Forbes and Lamar Alexander, along with various governors and members of Congress. The guests also included some major financial contributors.
But many were people of modest means who clearly were treasured simply for their friendship. The most frequent visitors of all were people like Jenna Welch, Governor Bush's mother-in-law; Debbie Stapleton, Mr. Bush's cousin, and her husband, Craig Stapleton; Mike and Nancy Weiss, old friends from West Texas; Pam Nelson, a sorority sister of Laura Bush's and still one of her closest friends; and Joe and Jan O'Neill, old friends in Midland who introduced George and Laura Bush to each other.
Mr. Bush has been criticized for appointing buddies and financial supporters to important positions in Texas, and for going to bat on behalf of corporate tycoons who contributed to him. But while detractors argue that this is unseemly, it is not the stuff of conventional scandal.
Moreover, Mr. Bush's speeches and correspondence -- obtained after requests under the Texas public information law -- suggested that Mr. Bush had core principles that went beyond political expediency. In speaking to Republican groups during the early primaries, for example, Mr. Bush routinely suggested that "the hardest job in America" was that of a single mother.
Such lines puzzled conservative audiences and seemed to come from his heart, not his pollsters.
In early 1998, there was tremendous pressure on Mr. Bush to grant a reprieve to Karla Faye Tucker, a murderer who had later married a prison chaplain and become a born-again Christian. Mrs. Tucker appeared so remorseful and so pious that conservatives who usually supported the death penalty called loudly on Mr. Bush to grant a reprieve, warning that his presidential bid would suffer if he did not.
Among the correspondence obtained under the Texas law is a fax to the governor from Mr. Wead, the former aide who also wrote the memo urging Mr. Bush to run for the White House. Mr. Wead, who has been a link between Mr. Bush and evangelical Christians, began:
"My fax machine has been running all night. The phone rings as soon as it is cradled. Anger and fear over Karla Faye. Great sadness. Deep emotion. This one is going to stick to you."
"You are losing the Robertson crowd over this," Mr. Wead added, referring to supporters of Pat Robertson, the Christian leader and former presidential candidate. "Impact Iowa."
Mr. Wead warned: "You must have evangelicals to win the Republican nomination," and he added as a conclusion that going ahead with the execution would mean: "You don't look tough, you look insensitive. Grant the thirty-day reprieve. Gauge the reaction. Move on from there."
A notation on the memo reports that Mr. Bush telephoned Mr. Wead after receiving it, but the content of the conversation is not disclosed. Meanwhile, Mr. Bush was getting similar pressure at closer quarters. A family friend says that Mr. Bush told him that two days before the scheduled execution, his daughter Jenna dropped her fork dramatically on her plate at dinner and announced that she was against the death penalty.
Mr. Bush did not bend. He refused to grant a reprieve, and Mrs. Tucker was executed by lethal injection.
 
Grounded in Family Matters
What does Mr. Bush's biography add up to?
He emerges as a bundle of contradictions: a man of immense people skills and limited policy interest, a candidate who excels at the sport of politics but is detached in the business of governing, a deep skeptic about the role of the government that he now seeks to lead.
In almost six years as Texas governor, Mr. Bush is credited by most Democrats as well as Republicans with having been an effective leader who made good appointments. But these have been six smooth years when he has been able to ride a rising Republican tide and a strong economy; he has not been tested by crisis.
Some of the nostrums on both sides do not seem to stand up to scrutiny. Mr. Bush is sometimes mocked as a dimwit, but this seems flatly wrong. On the contrary, those who have spent time with him, Democrats as well as Republicans, agree that he is smart -- even brilliant -- in those areas that are important to him.
He has an astonishing memory for faces and names, the quickest of wits, an astute talent for judging people and a tremendous recall for starting line-ups of 1950's baseball teams. If he muddles Slovenia with Slovakia and for now has trouble naming foreign leaders, it is not because he lacks the capacity but because he lacks the interest.
The fairer question about Mr. Bush is not whether he has the intelligence to be president but whether he has the intellectual curiosity. He seems exceptionally unreflective, impatient with the world of ideas, uninterested in some of the nation's key political debates. Characteristically, he does not believe in evolution -- he says the jury is still out -- but he does not actively disbelieve in it either; as a friend puts it, "he doesn't really care about that kind of thing."
Mr. Bush comes across as someone with a personal rudder in life. His priority is his family, not his politics, and since entering public life he has avoided scandal and pandering.
Yet for all his personal rudder, Mr. Bush seems to have much less of a policy rudder. He has instincts -- a "healthy distrust" for government, as he puts it, and an inclination to support business -- but he does not really display a fully formed ideology. Partly for that reason, and partly because he steers away from controversy, he remains something of an enigma, a work in progress.
In his speech to the Republican convention, Mr. Bush criticized the Clinton administration for failing to address any larger purpose or great goals. Yet his question about the present administration -- "to what end?" -- could also be asked of his own campaign.
Mr. Bush is sometimes compared to President Reagan, and there are strong parallels in their communication skills, in their detachment from details, in their optimism about America. Yet from the start it was evident that Mr. Reagan stood for something rock solid. It is much less clear just what Mr. Bush stands for.
Consider abortion.
Some of Mr. Bush's friends are liberals who would normally vote Democratic but who are making an exception for him. They say they are confident that Mr. Bush's conservative positions reflect simply his Texas background and the need to get through the Republican primaries. If he were elected, they insist, Mr. Bush would appoint Supreme Court justices who would preserve the legal right to obtain an abortion.
Other friends, such as Texas conservatives, are just as convinced that any ambiguities about the governor's policies reflect the need to get through the general election. If he were elected, they insist, he would appoint justices who would ban abortion.
There is some evidence to support each belief. In Texas, Mr. Bush has appointed moderates to the state supreme court, and they say he did not ask them about abortion. A friend remembers Mr. Bush ridiculing campaigners against abortion in a conversation two years ago, and other family friends say that Laura Bush privately favors abortion rights.
On the other hand, Mr. Bush has praised Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas as his models, and both support overturning the landmark Roe. v. Wade decision that led to legal abortion. Moreover, an adviser to Mr. Bush says that the governor has privately praised Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri as potentially a great Supreme Court justice. Mr. Ashcroft, a lawyer who is one of the Senate's most conservative Republicans, takes the position that "the unborn child has a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed."
Mr. Bush's correspondence offers few clues to resolve these kinds of uncertainties about his policies. Fundamentally, this is because the letters tend to reveal not so much policies as a person -- a governor who focused on setting a tone rather than puzzling through the thicket of issues.
A striking proportion of the correspondence, for example, concerns exchanges of good wishes, suggested appointments and invitations to dinners or golf tournaments, and few of the letters evince any particular interest on Mr. Bush's part in policy. The letters -- indeed, Mr. Bush's entire life -- conjure an image of Mr. Bush's possible presidency as a gala celebration on a cruise ship, everyone convivial and happy and, indeed, no child left behind.
But the larger uncertainty is simply in which direction this cruise ship of state would steer. Mr. Bush has always seemed focused more on bringing everyone together and raising their spirits than on navigating the ship itself.
In September 1995, for example, Vice President Al Gore sent a "Dear Governor" letter to Mr. Bush, enclosing a report on reinventing government. Since Mr. Bush also embraced the idea of streamlining government, and since Mr. Gore was the likely Democratic nominee in the year 2000, one might have expected Mr. Bush to show at least a bit of interest.
Instead, a scribbled notation by Mr. Bush's assistant reports: "Gov tossed enclosures."
 
This is the last article in a series about the life of George W. Bush.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas in Iowa on June 12, 1999, the day he formally declared himself a candidate for the presidency. In 1998, he began focusing on whether to run. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (56%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (56%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



776 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Janitors in Stamford Use Hunger Strike as Organizing Tool

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 28

 BODY:
Six janitors who clean the gleaming office towers of this small city are in the fifth day of a hunger strike that is part of an ambitious organizing effort by the labor movement.
Instead of going building-by-building to enroll the area's office janitors in groups of 30 or 40 at a time, as is customary, the Service Employees International Union hopes to sign all 2,500 of them up in one fell swoop. The union also hopes to win health insurance, convert jobs from part time to full time and realize a large wage increase for the janitors, most of whom earn $6.15 an hour, the state's minimum wage. 
 Looking to Stamford as one of the foremost laboratories for the labor movement, officials with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. say they hope that if this organizing drive succeeds, it will become a model for a national effort to increase pay for low-wage workers and add thousands to labor's long-languishing membership rolls.
Stephen Lerner, director of the union's Justice for Janitors campaign, said, "The whole theme of what we're doing here and around the country is we want to lift janitors out of poverty."
He said Stamford was chosen as one site for this experiment because it, and much of the rest of Fairfield County, is an area of stark contrasts between rich and poor. Many low-skilled workers in the county earn less than $1,000 a month, but most two-bedroom apartments rent for more than $1,100 a month.
To draw attention to the janitors' cause, the union has organized a sit-in to block traffic, sent protesters to a charity auction and run full-page newspaper ads. It has also persuaded more than 350 janitors to go on strike this week against 10 cleaning companies and 30 buildings in Stamford, Bridgeport, Norwalk and Greenwich.
But many employers have attacked the union's tactics as confrontational and heavy-handed, criticizing in particular a demonstration at a building manager's house. These employers say that after organized labor long ignored the janitors' situation, it makes little economic sense to suddenly give these workers huge raises that might drive some companies out of business. Besides, some employers say, the union is seeking to defy market forces with its wage demands when a a huge influx of immigrant workers is pushing wages down for janitors and other unskilled workers.
Executives with several cleaning companies said they were already paying competitive wages, adding that they feared that if they raised wages their companies might lose out in bidding for future contracts. "The cleaning contractors can't just sign a contract with the union and then go to the building owners and ask them to pay it," said Anthony Malkin, president of W & M Properties, a real estate management company that strikers have drawn attention to. "The owners will say, 'Why' and may well say, 'We're going to hire a nonunion contractor.' "
Mr. Malkin, who recently raised his cleaners' wages to at least $8.50 an hour from $6.15, said that in the face of the strike most cleaning contractors were using replacement workers to keep their buildings clean.
The union hopes to pressure every cleaning company that operates in the county to sign the same contract so that no company can complain that it was being undercut by competitors.
It has gotten prominent politicians and members of the clergy to urge cleaning companies to recognize the union and grant sizable raises. And this week the service employees began seeking to line up movie stars to visit the fasting janitors and show their support.
"The janitors aren't being paid a livable wage," said George Jepsen, the majority leader in the Connecticut State Senate, who has urged cleaning contractors and building owners to grant higher wages and union recognition. "Fairfield County has some of the highest housing costs in the nation, and everything else is expensive here. The janitors are paid at a level that makes it almost impossible for them to live. I haven't encountered anyone who doesn't agree that they deserve more money."
Kelley Ku, a soft-spoken immigrant from Peru who earns $6.15 an hour and works two cleaning jobs -- eight hours as a full-time housekeeper during the day and four hours in an office building at night -- said she began the hunger strike last Tuesday to help organized labor succeed in its effort.
"We've begun this hunger strike to achieve all that we deserve," she said. "These jobs pay so little. I came to the United States with the belief that if you worked hard you would make enough money. I realize here that you may work hard, but you don't make enough money."
Union officials here hope to persuade Stamford's cleaning contractors to agree to what contractors recently agreed to in Hartford and Denver: converting many part-time jobs, usually three and a half hours a day, to full-time ones. As a result of that provision and an accompanying wage increase, Denver janitors will see their annual pay jump to $19,000 a year from $6,000.
Harry Cohn, president of Service Management Group of Bridgeport, one of the companies the strikers have focused on, said that, historically, the county's janitorial business has been part time, with many factory workers taking part-time janitors' jobs at night to supplement their incomes.
He and other cleaning executives argued that Stamford's office buildings were much smaller than those in New York or other major cities, making it far harder to provide eight hours of work for every janitor. And several executives said it would make little sense to provide health coverage to part-time janitors because many janitors receive such benefits in their full-time jobs -- something the workers deny.
Ms. Ku said she would much prefer one full-time job at a higher wage because her current schedule allows her to see her 12-year-old daughter only after 10 p.m.
"One of the big problems for many of us is we have to work so many hours that we don't have any time to stay with our children," Ms. Ku said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Most janitors earn $6.15 an hour in Stamford, where living costs are high. Employers say higher wages could drive them out of business. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); STRIKES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (70%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); CHARITIES (67%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



777 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2667 words

HEADLINE: Fraudulent Marketers Capitalize On Demand for Sweat-Free Diets

SERIES: THE FAT EPIDEMIC: Going for the Quick Fix

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
Slimming soaps that slough off fat in the shower. Miracle pills that get rid of excess pounds without dieting or exercise. Plastic earplugs that curb the appetite. Even a glittering ring called Fat-Be-Gone that when slipped on a finger trims hips, buttocks and thighs. After her second baby was born, April Mankowsky got to know all the latest weight loss gimmicks -- and tried her fair share of them, too.
"I'm a fool," said Mrs. Mankowsky, of Blue Ridge, Tex., who recently bought a month's supply of Aoqili Defat Seaweed Soap on the Internet. "I knew it wasn't going to work. But I'm desperate, and the ad said, 'Watch the fat go down the drain.' " 
 Since fenfluramine, part of the popular prescription drug combination known as fen-phen, was pulled from pharmacy shelves in 1997 for causing dangerous and potentially fatal side effects, dieters have scrambled for a substitute that offers the same dramatic results with as little effort. In their search, they have turned quick-fix, over-the-counter weight loss products from a tiny sliver of the diet industry into its fastest-growing segment.
But the surging demand for a weight loss "silver bullet" has fueled a rapid rise in fraudulent advertising, industry groups and regulators say. With increasing bravado, diet companies are flouting federal guidelines to promise the easy solutions consumers have come to expect, even though their products may have no effect on weight loss or may even be harmful.
In fact, no sooner had fenfluramine been yanked from the market than the indicators of deceptive weight loss marketing began to climb. Consumer complaints about misleading diet advertisements have more than tripled at the Federal Trade Commission, to 607 last year from 161 in 1997. And, after pursuing only four cases in the first half of the 1990's, the Better Business Bureau has investigated 24 diet companies in the last five years.
"We're in the Wild West of advertising right now," said Andrea Levine, director of the bureau's national advertising division. "We're seeing claims being made on a whim without a scintilla of evidence, and there's such a huge proliferation of products it's very hard for the regulatory world to get hold of it."
Over all, the $34 billion market for diet products and services has shrunk slightly in the last four years, shaken by fundamental changes in the way Americans try to lose weight.
Sales of low-calorie foods and snacks have dropped 40 percent since 1996, according to Marketdata Enterprises, a Tampa, Fla., research firm. Sales of diet soft drinks have withered to pre-1990 levels. Weight Watchers has been successful, but revenue for commercial weight loss centers as a group has declined by nearly $1 billion in the last decade, pushing Jenny Craig to the verge of being delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. And though Slim-Fast still sells well, the market for diet shakes and other meal replacements has fallen by half in the last 10 years, reflecting a growing frustration with diets criticized for being slow to work and hard to maintain.
Yet nonprescription pills, dietary supplements and other over-the-counter weight loss agents have never been more popular. After years of little change, sales of diet pills and supplements have more than quadrupled since 1996 -- to $782 million this year from $168 million -- invigorated by the broad retreat from conventional weight loss regimens that require sweat and sacrifice.
The Food and Drug Administration is considering whether to ban over-the-counter access to phenylpropanolamine, a common ingredient in appetite suppressants like Acutrim and Dexatrim that may increase the risk of stroke in young women. But even if it does, the sale of nonprescription diet pills is not likely to slow. Most of the growth in that market is being driven by dietary supplements whose active ingredients include herbs like ephedra and chitosan, a fiber-like substance derived from shellfish.
Diet industry groups and federal officials say the growing appetite for quick-fix weight loss products gives rogue companies ever more incentive to stoke their claims. Each time a manufacturer succeeds with exaggerated promises, regulators say, several more follow suit, plastering the airwaves and the Internet with invitations to drop weight while driving, lose 10 pounds in a weekend and, of course, never diet again.
Take the Fat-Be-Gone ring, sold on the Web by American Design, a St. Louis jewelry maker, and in retail chains like Walgreens. By tapping into the "principles of acupuncture and acupressure," the company's online advertisement said, the coil-like trinket can have the same effect as "jogging up to six miles a day." The ad promised that when worn on the little finger, the ring slims the thighs. The ring finger is for the stomach, thumb for the face and so on -- all with "no drugs, no starving, no sweating." After repeated interview requests by The New York Times, the company removed the Web site on which the claims were made and declined to comment.
"I don't think it's unreasonable that we want to have a miracle," said Lynn McAfee, director of the Council on Size and Weight Discrimination, an advocacy group for overweight people. "That's what we're sold every day." She added that she has a Fat-Be-Gone ring and that at least four of her friends had bought them as well. "In the back of my mind, I say, Well, maybe it will work."
 
Beyond Fraud, A Health Impact
The rise in questionable advertising worries federal and state regulators because diet fraud, though primarily an economic crime, can have a significant impact on public health. More than half of all Americans are overweight, and 22 percent are heavy enough to qualify as obese, according to the National Institutes of Health. As diet gimmicks lure consumers away from serious weight loss efforts, regulators fear, the incidence of heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and other illnesses associated with obesity will increase.
"The difference between self-diagnosis and professional treatment is quickly becoming a blurred distinction," said Robert Reyna, who coordinates a state attorneys general working group on health fraud. "Someone might be taking these products in lieu of getting real medical treatment."
Industry groups say deceptive marketing is ultimately counterproductive as well, since duped consumers will shy away from other diet products sold on the Internet and cable TV, where weight loss advertising has flourished in recent years.
"There are scoundrels and charlatans who are abusing the medium and giving the industry a black eye," said Elissa Myers, president of the Electronic Retailing Association, a group of about 5,500 businesses that market their products on the Internet, radio and television. "You have a category spinning out of control, where claims are being made that absolutely challenge credulity."
Out of "enlightened self-interest," as Ms. Myers put it, the association has begun referring egregious marketing claims to the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates advertising. In April, the collaboration led to one of the largest false advertising settlements, a $10 million judgment against Enforma Natural Products for best-selling pills called Exercise in a Bottle and Fat Trapper.
Then, in early September, the F.T.C. followed up by suing the product's celebrity endorser, Steve Garvey, the former baseball All Star, who urged TV watchers to indulge cravings for barbecued chicken and ribs "without guilt, without worry."
Taken together, F.T.C. officials say the two actions mark the beginning of their most aggressive crackdown ever on the industry. Yet they acknowledge that the agency can do little to curb the boom in fraudulent companies.
"There are a lot more of them than there are of us, and under no foreseeable circumstance is enforcement going to address this problem," said Richard Cleland, senior lawyer in the F.T.C.'s advertising division. "It can only set the example."
 
A Law Gives Birth To a Flurry of Products
Government enforcement has a spotty record on diet fraud. In the 1990's, spurred by Congressional hearings on weight loss advertising, the F.T.C. brought five times more cases against weight loss companies for misleading advertising than in any other decade. The actions generated settlements with some of the industry's best-known companies, including Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers, requiring them to inform customers how much weight they can realistically expect to lose.
In a 1997 effort called "Operation Waistline," the agency filed lawsuits against seven companies in a single day, taking aim at lesser-known products like SeQuester, a plant-based fiber that supposedly blocks the absorption of fat, and Slimming Insoles, which claimed to trigger weight loss by pressing on nerves in the foot. But for all its efforts, the agency now estimates that consumers spend $6 billion on fraudulent diet products annually, 20 percent more than four years ago.
As a result, the commission intends to step up enforcement by filing more lawsuits and seeking greater penalties. Still, F.T.C. officials warn that hundreds of new companies have put out dubious products on the Internet in the past few years, emboldened by the knowledge that the agency's handful of regulators, who often need years to pursue a case, cannot scrutinize them all.
To be sure, dieters have long been seduced by implausible claims. Some of the earliest cases brought by the F.T.C. against weight loss companies in the 1930's were for bath salts and massage creams that supposedly dissolved fat. But the number of questionable products on the market today is unprecedented, industry groups and regulators say, especially with the introduction of dietary supplements, an enormous category that did not exist before the 1994 Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act was passed.
Before 1994, the F.D.A. had to approve ingredients used in over-the-counter weight loss products, prompting companies to spend millions of dollars on studies to show that their pills, powders and other elixirs actually helped people lose weight. But the legislation eliminated that preapproval process, allowing manufacturers to put herb extracts and other weight loss supplements directly on the market without first proving they work.
The new law does not allow supplement manufacturers to spout claims at will. Companies are required to notify the F.D.A. when they put new products on shelves, and can be sued by the agency for making false promises. But that rarely happens. There are more than 25,000 dietary supplements on the market for virtually every ailment, according to the F.D.A. Yet the agency has only 8,000 products on file. Of those, few have ever been reviewed by the F.D.A. for safety, much less for efficacy.
"We simply don't have the resources to investigate them all," said Dr. Christine Lewis, director of the F.D.A.'s office of nutritional products, labeling and dietary supplements. Although the law has led to a surge of new products, Dr. Lewis added, it did not authorize money for any additional inspectors.
Diet products often go untested by manufacturers as well, F.D.A. officials and health professionals say. In a review of the most popular weight loss agents found in dietary supplements this year, including chitosan and ephedra, researchers at the Obesity Center at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York found that most had undergone limited and inconclusive studies, or none at all, offering little evidence to support advertisers' claims.
"Most of these magic pill manufacturers don't want clinical trials," said Dr. Xavier Pi-Sunyer, a professor of medicine at Columbia University who heads the obesity center. "They try to sell as much as they can and, if they eventually get closed down, well, they try something else."
Some supplements are potentially dangerous, and many health professionals blame loose regulatory controls for the recent rash of illnesses attributed to ephedra, an herbal stimulant suspected by the F.D.A. of causing at least 17 deaths.
Despite the potential risks, sales of dietary supplements for weight loss are booming, in part because the anti-obesity prescription medications remaining on the market -- Xenical and Meridia -- cost more, are rarely covered by insurance and yield only modest outcomes. According to a June survey by the Calorie Control Council, a diet industry group, one in four dieters now take dietary supplements, up 39 percent from two years ago.
So popular have dietary supplements become that thousands of independent distributors now sell them on the Internet, mostly from home computers, flooding chat rooms, electronic bulletin boards and auction sites like eBay with advertisements. Gil Gruber, chief operating officer of Dietwatch.com, a Web diet site that endorses no particular method of losing weight, says he rejects at least 10 requests a week from companies that want to advertise on the site because they cannot substantiate their claims -- and often do not even try.
"They make all kinds of ridiculous statements like, 'Lose weight while you sleep,' " he said. "We're a real target for that. There's no regulation on the Web."
 
A Sales Pitch Based on Faith
Whatever the product, the F.T.C. requires advertisers to have proof of their claims. But in many cases vendors know very little about the diet products they sell, much less the science behind them. Jason Green, a casino worker from Louisiana, sells 35 to 50 bars of Aoqili soap each week. On his Web site, he details how dieters can "just step into the shower to wash away fat," careful to describe how the soap penetrates the pores and jump-starts the metabolism. The site claims that users can shed 25 pounds in two months.
Mr. Green said he had never talked to the manufacturer, a company in Guangxi, China, that he knows only from the packaging. Nor has he talked with the distributor who sells him the soap, except to place orders. In fact, everything he knows about the product -- and what he is allowed to say when marketing it -- comes from surfing the Internet to see what his fellow vendors claim, without any input from the manufacturer.
"They just leave it up to me," Mr. Green said. Wing Hop Fung Ginseng Inc., the Los Angeles company that supplies him with the soap, confirmed that it provides no information on the product's efficacy.
As cable stations multiply, industry groups say that television has become increasingly susceptible to questionable claims as well. Spending on infomercials for weight loss products has soared, to $107.5 million in 1999 from $43.1 million in 1995. Last year, advertising for weight loss products grew faster than any other infomercial category, according to Response magazine, which tracks television marketing.
"With the fragmentation of the viewing audience, television stations are in many cases looking the other way and accepting anything that has significant dollars attached," the retailers association's Ms. Myers said.
Without self-regulation by the industry, many diet companies concede that the rise in fraudulent advertising is likely to continue unabated. As a result, a working group of government regulators, health officials and some of the industry's biggest companies has begun urging businesses to publicly endorse a set of advertising rules that go beyond federal requirements.
But the pledge is entirely voluntary, leaving many to question its potential impact on the industry.
"When you have someone selling snake oil," the business bureau's Ms. Levine said, "self-regulation probably isn't the best form of control."
 
The Fat Epidemic
 
Previous articles in this series examined extreme surgical treatment for weight loss, obesity research, exercise and weight and chronic dieters. Later articles will look at fat in foods, and discrimination. The series is available online: www.nytimes.com/obesity
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Cleland, a senior lawyer at the Federal Trade Commission, led the government's suit against the maker of Fat Burner pills, which agreed to drop misleading advertising. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); SeQuester tablets promised to block the absorption of fat by the body. Slimming Insoles claimed that pressing nerves in the foot helps lose weight.; Lynn McAfee of Philadelphia displays her Fat-Be-Gone ring. The ring's maker claimed on a Web site that it uses acupressure principles to produce the same effect as jogging six miles. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 
Graphs: "More Complaints"
Consumer complaints to the Federal Trade Commission about fraudulent diet advertisements.
 
Graph tracks complaints since 1997.
(Source: Federal Trade Commission)(pg. 26)
 
"Shifting to Pills and Supplements"
Consumer spending on some major types of weight loss products and services has fallen since 1996, but sales of over-the-counter diet pills and dietary supplements have rise sharply.
 
Graph tracks sales of Meal Replacement Shakes and Nutrition Bars, Diet Pills and Dietary Supplements, Commercial Weight Loss Centers and Low-Calorie Entrees and Meals since 1996.
(Source: Marketdata Enterprises)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DIETING (92%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (70%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (60%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); 

PERSON: APRIL MANKOWSKY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



778 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE ENDORSEMENTS;
Some Newspapers Endorse Gore's Experience; Others Back Bush's Conciliatory Tone

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Nine days before Election Day, a number of newspapers announced presidential endorsements today on their editorial pages.
The New York Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Denver Post and The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette backed Vice President Al Gore, while two Chicago papers, The Rocky Mountain News of Denver, The Orlando Sentinel and The Providence Journal chose Gov. George W. Bush. 
 The New York Times said in an editorial that Mr. Gore was best equipped for the White House "by virtue of his knowledge of government, his experience at the top levels of federal and diplomatic decision-making, and his commitment to the general welfare." It said Mr. Gore was the preferred candidate on leadership, taxes and the economy, foreign policy, civil liberties, environmental protection and Supreme Court appointments.
Mr. Bush, The Times said, was "not without his strong points" and Mr. Gore "has his weaknesses." But it added, "the vice president has struggled impressively and successfully to escape the shadow of the Clinton administration's ethical lapses, and we believe that he would never follow Bill Clinton's example of reckless conduct that cheapens the presidency."
Taking a sharply different view, The Orlando Sentinel endorsed Mr. Bush. "Coarse behavior, infantile squabbling and naked greed at the top have undermined people's trust in their government," it said. "That must change. The nation needs a leader who can bring people together, who can stand firm on principle but knows the art of compromise. America needs a president who is willing to serve as a role model for all its citizens. The Orlando Sentinel trusts Gov. George W. Bush to take on those weighty responsibilities."
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette posed what it called the campaign's serious questions: "Which candidate is better prepared to lead the world's only remaining superpower? And which candidate offers a vision of governing that better promotes prosperity, a strong role for America in the world and continued progress toward the goal of equal rights for all Americans? Whether the yardstick is qualifications or policies, the superior candidate is Vice President Al Gore."
The Providence Journal endorsed Mr. Bush as more likely to strengthen national security and broaden prosperity. Governor Bush, it said, "seems determined to rebuild America's defenses and reassert its power for peace."
The Journal said Mr. Gore "seems prepared to squander much of the current budget surplus on a new generation of federal programs, mandates and bureaucracies" and asserted that he had "jumped considerably leftward, running as the champion of bureaucracy, teachers' unions, tort lawyers and other assorted special interests."
The Denver Post said that Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore "may be equally matched in both strengths and defects" in appealing to average voters or possessing the better character for the presidency. "The election, then, should be decided on the issues," it said. "And on the issues, Gore has made the better case."
Denver's other major daily, The Rocky Mountain News, endorsed Mr. Bush, saying that he has "a practical, principled view that the federal government's role in American life should be restrained." The News said Mr. Bush intended to aid the poor, guarantee the future of Social Security and, by cutting taxes, "further liberate the American people and make the government less like a shadow that follows everyone everywhere."
The Philadelphia Inquirer endorsed Mr. Gore "because his vast experience and earnest intelligence outstrip what Gov. George W. Bush has to offer." It said that Mr. Bush's resume was "remarkably thin for a man at the threshold of the Oval Office," and added: "His likable manner should not lead voters to gloss over the shaky grasp of policy and the petulance about criticism -- indeed, the general lack of depth -- that he has shown in the campaign."
The Chicago Sun-Times said that Mr. Bush, its choice, had "sounded a conciliatory tone" in his campaign, "avoiding the ugly culture wars of recent years and promising to work across party lines for unity."
Election of the governor "would mean a clean slate in Washington," it said, and added: "Bush is willing to abandon old ways of thinking."
The Chicago Tribune, also endorsing Mr. Bush, said he would be "far less patient with schools that persistently fail" and would "recognize that innovation is nurtured and achieved from the local level up, not dictated from Washington."
It said that Mr. Gore would "expand a failing Medicare system," while Mr. Bush "would venture an overhaul." It also praised Mr. Bush for having "not given the impression that he has the last word on every problem." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (92%); DENVER POST CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); ETHICS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); LAWYERS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); BUDGETS (70%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); TORTS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



779 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE GREEN PARTY;
At an Iowa Rally, Nader's Supporters Stand Their Ground

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Oct. 28

 BODY:
At every mention of the word "spoiler," the crowd groaned.
The students and others who packed a hall at the University of Iowa on Friday night to hear Ralph Nader, the Green Party's presidential candidate, justify his campaign simply did not want to hear any more about the possibility that they would throw the election to Gov. George W. Bush. They were so upset at being confronted with the evil of two lesser candidates, they said, that they refused to vote again for the lesser of two evils. 
 "This year the choice is between George W. Bush and a Democrat who is to the right of Bill Clinton," complained Ed Fallon, a Democratic state representative who introduced Mr. Nader. "I don't begrudge my friends and constituents who plan to vote for Al Gore. I understand their fear of George W. Bush. But voting against somebody isn't enough anymore. If I had three hands maybe I could hold my nose, my gut and my mouth and vote for Al Gore. But in good conscience, I can't, I won't, and you shouldn't either."
Democrats were certainly nervous about the possibility: the party dispatched the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the comedian Al Franken to address students at the university, which is in Iowa City, that same afternoon.
Mr. Nader himself was unsparing in his criticism of the Democrats, attacking them more often and more harshly than he did the Republicans. In an interview after the speech, he explained that he did not feel the need to go after Mr. Bush because the problems of a Bush presidency were more readily apparent.
"Bush is a corporation running for president disguised as a person," he said, "Whereas Gore touts his environmental record, says he can match it against anyone, even me. And that's an invitation."
Others said that to wean national politics from its dependence on big business, and to give a voice to people against the death penalty, the war on drugs, genetically altered crops, economic sanctions in Iraq and a host of other causes that the people here felt deeply about, radical change was necessary.
Simply put, they said, things may have to get worse before they get better. One labor leader used the analogy of a strike: the workers would be willing to endure "short-term pain" to win long-term reforms and benefits.
Mr. Nader used another analogy, pointing out President Reagan's appointment of James Watt as the Interior Secretary, which so infuriated environmentally minded Americans that the rolls of watchdog groups doubled. "He was a provocateur," Mr. Nader said, explaining that a more palatable appointment might have been an "anesthetizer" that would have left those people complacent. "Sometimes people need a provocateur," he said.
Late in the evening, a woman asked Mr. Nader whether by voting for him she would be electing Mr. Bush and endangering the right to abortions. Mr. Nader told her that it would not necessarily happen, noting that conservative presidents have appointed liberal judges to the Supreme Court and vice versa.
The evening showed why the Nader campaign has been a political phenomenon. Not only did he fill a hall with nearly a thousand students, but many who came donated $3.50 for the privilege.
Unlike the major candidates, who speak about issues like Social Security and Medicare that are aimed at elderly voters, and issues like education that are aimed at parents, Mr. Nader tailored his message to the young.
"If you don't 'turn on' to politics," he warned, "politics will turn on you." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IOWA, USA (94%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US GREEN PARTY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (50%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (92%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL FRANKEN (57%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



780 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS BACKING PROJECTS AT HOME AT A RECORD PACE

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28

 BODY:
A few years back, the people of Toledo, Ohio, began building a new four-lane boulevard linking the northern edge of town to Interstate 280. But the money ran out before they could put on the finishing touches.
So earlier this month, Representative Marcy Kaptur, a nine-term Democrat from Toledo, set out to fix that. As a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, she tucked $250,000 into a transportation spending bill to line the otherwise barren twin ribbons of asphalt with two miles of trees, shrubs and flower beds. 
 "It needed major landscaping," said Ms. Kaptur, a former city planner who justified the federal money because the spur, the Greenbelt Parkway, connects to a federal highway.
Democrats may be in the minority in Congress and may be complaining about the death of many of their legislative priorities, but when it comes to securing pet projects back home, from the most senior and secure lawmakers, like Ms. Kaptur, to the most junior and insecure members, Democrats hold their own with Republican rivals.
As lawmakers struggle to adjourn for the year, Democratic leaders are taking special care to funnel heaping helpings of pork to their most vulnerable incumbents, including Rush D. Holt of New Jersey and Joseph M. Hoeffel of Pennsylvania. "From our point of view, most of them have been very well taken care of," one senior House Democratic aide said.
Pork-barrel politics is nothing new and lawmakers from both parties engage in it. Fueled by a fat economy, budget surpluses and an election-year eagerness to shower favors on voters, Congress is on pace to set a record this year in steering taxpayer money to projects like sunflower research in North Dakota, reindeer herders in Alaska and mapping chicken genes in Michigan.
There's so much pork that one Republican House candidate, Derek Smith of Utah, is not even in Congress, but Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, had $5 million set aside for water and land-related projects in Mr. Smith's district.
"It's an embarrassment of pork riches," said Tom Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste, an organization dedicated to eliminating pork, or the billions of dollars steered to projects back home that are not requested by the White House or reviewed by a Congressional committee.
It will be several weeks before the organization can tally all the pet projects included in final spending bills, but Mr. Schatz said Congress is likely to break the record, $17.7 billion, set last year.
Take just one bill, for example. In a $107.3 billion measure to finance housing, veterans and environmental projects, lawmakers earmarked 1,183 research, water and economic development initiatives. The combined value of the pet projects was just under $1.1 billion, or slightly more than what the bill provides for helping the homeless.
Of course, one man's pork is another man's prime cut. "You can probably get a good column written once in a while about pork-barrel spending and all that kind of stuff, but when you go down these items, these items are important to the constituencies in those states," Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said on the Senate floor last week.
There is no definitive breakdown between Democratic and Republican pork, but each party has its master purveyors of pet projects. Senator Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican who heads the Appropriations Committee, had included in an Interior Department spending bill $1.25 million to repair a church in the Aleutian Islands and $176,000 for the Reindeer Herders' Association.
Democrats have their own earmarking legends, notably Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, his party's senior member on the Appropriations Committee. Among other projects, Mr. Byrd included $4.6 million in an Interior Department spending bill to help restore a downtown section of Wheeling, W. Va.
"When you have Stevens and Byrd, very persuasive chairmen who take home so much for their states, there's no credence if they say no to anyone else," Mr. Schatz said.
Endangered incumbents are typically first in line for help. Republican leaders ensured that $102 million in road and bridge projects were earmarked for Representative Jay Dickey's district in Arkansas.
Top aides to Representative Richard A. Gephardt, of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, collected a wish list from their half-dozen most vulnerable incumbents and had Mr. Gephardt tell senior Democrats on the Appropriations Committee that "there was no higher priority than theirs."
(Mr. Gephardt did not ignore his own district's needs, securing $950,000 for a local sewer project and $2 million for a traveling exhibition of documents and artifacts related to the Lewis and Clark expedition.)
Mr. Holt, a New Jersey freshman who faces a stiff re-election fight, is one of the beneficiaries, securing more than $18 million in road, dredging and bike path projects in his district.
"I try to ask for as much as I can without asking for too much," Mr. Holt said. "It's age-old politics."
Mr. Hoeffel gained $29 million in roads projects from party elders looking out for him and, like Mr. Holt, from working his own contacts among colleagues. But Mr. Hoeffel had another perhaps unlikely ally: Senator Arlen Specter, a Republican on the Appropriations Committee, but more important, a fellow Pennsylvanian.
"Let's face it, he comes from a state with a Republican senator on Appropriations whom we've worked closely with," said Frank X. Custer, Mr. Hoeffel's spokesman. "Unlike a lot of people in Washington, we've tried to work across party lines."
Perhaps the best way for Democrats or Republicans to guarantee a pet project is not just to know someone on the Appropriations Committee, but sit on the coveted panel itself.
Representative Robert E. Cramer, an Alabama Democrat on the committee, proudly announced in a news release on his Web site that in an agriculture spending bill, he had secured $725,000 for red snapper research, $600,000 for catfish-disease research and $500,000 for peanut-allergy research.
An article on pork-barrel spending would be incomplete without mentioning $500,000 that Representative David E. Price, a North Carolina Democrat on the panel, won for additional study at North Carolina State University on managing and using hog manure. "It's a severe problem in North Carolina, and this program turns waste into fertilizer pellets that don't smell," said Thomas Bates, a spokesman for Mr. Price.
Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, a New York Democrat on the committee, had $100,000 set aside to help an apple-packing plant in New Paltz, N.Y., ride out a bad year, marked by low apple prices, hail storms and tornadoes. "No one has ever given us this kind of support," said Charles M. Andola, secretary of the Consolidated Fruit Packers, the plant operator.
Lawmakers from small states band together to back favorite projects. North Dakota's three-man Congressional delegation -- all Democrats -- united behind a $300,000 grant to hire a geneticist to study sunflowers at a federal laboratory in Fargo, N.D. North Dakota grows 85 percent of the nation's sunflowers.
"This is the kind of crop research we're proud of," said Laurie Boeder, spokeswoman for Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. "Scientists are looking for ways to make sunflowers more drought-resistant, more disease-resistant and more productive to feed more people on less land."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rush D. Holt, who faces a stiff re-election fight, secured more than $18 million in projects for his New Jersey district. "I try to ask for as much as I can without asking for too much," he said. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN HOUSE (75%); HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN HOUSE (75%); HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: MARCY KAPTUR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



781 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Testing Bonds in Midst of Jerusalem's Clashes

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 28

 BODY:
With crowns of leaves encircling their heads, Shmuel Mantinband and Imam Tibi tried to decide on which vacant couch to settle their toga-clad bodies. Lute music echoed forlornly through their cavernous Roman-themed banquet hall in an Old City devoid of tourists.
"Wherever you want, you're the Caesar," Mr. Tibi said to Mr. Mantinband, who indeed is the Caesar. It's on his business card. 
 For three years, Mr. Mantinband, an American-born Israeli, and Mr. Tibi, a Palestinian, have worked side by side in the Cardo Culinaria restaurant in the Jewish Quarter of the divided Old City. Mr. Mantinband, the boss, lived through Mr. Tibi's divorce, and Mr. Tibi, the manager, through the death of his employer's mother.
Together, hundreds of times, they have delivered a historic spiel to guests, peeled their grapes, washed their feet and dried between their toes. Working together in the ancient past was a bonding experience, they said. But in all that time, they avoided the present, or at least religion and politics. Then, their world exploded in a wave of violence that quickly unraveled most dreams of coexistence for Israelis and Palestinians. It also killed their business.
Yet Mr. Mantinband, 46, and Mr. Tibi, 30, kept coming to their empty restaurant. With days to fill, they talked and talked, and discovered how completely differently they saw everything that was happening.
"He saw black, I saw white," Mr. Mantinband said, adjusting the wreath encircling his knitted skullcap. "I saw black, he saw white. It could make your jaw drop."
There are not many pairs like them, Israeli-Palestinian colleagues or friends who have established a solid enough base on which to walk together through the minefields of their disagreements. But they do exist, in a smattering of tourism businesses, industrial ventures, schools and human rights organizations. And their bonds, like their joint enterprises, are being challenged.
Mr. Mantinband, for instance, asked his friend point-blank why Palestinians were putting children in the midst of clashes to be killed.
"The way it stands in the Arab street, it's jihad now," or holy war, Mr. Tibi said. "In jihad situation, the rules are off. Kids don't ask their father and wives don't need the permission of their husband. Listen, we have direct orders from God. We are fighting for our freedom."
Swigging some lemonade with mint, Mr. Mantinband looked glum. That explanation did not make things any clearer, he said.
In a previous discussion, Mr. Tibi had demanded to know why the Israelis could not control rock-throwing Palestinian crowds without shooting. "What Israeli would go face the Arabs without a gun?" Mr. Mantinband said was the first thought that crossed his mind. But he acknowledges that he then contemplated whether the cycle of violence could have been prevented if in the very beginning the Jerusalem police had used milder riot control techniques -- as they would at Jewish demonstrations.
"Shmuel needs the explanation of my side, for sure," Mr. Tibi said, crossing his legs beneath a knee-length tunic. "He knows how Israelis see things, but he doesn't know how Arabs see things. I have a better view into the Israelis. I speak Hebrew, I work in the Jewish Quarter."
The grandson of a rabbi active in the American civil rights movement, Mr. Mantinband sees himself as someone conditioned to "see people as people." A soft-spoken man who is quite enthused by his restaurant's gimmicks, he admits that when he bought the Cardo, he asked the seller if he should watch his back around the Palestinian workers. The seller, a Jew, laughed at him, he said, "and rightly so."
Now, he says proudly, he leaves Mr. Tibi blank signed checks when he goes away.
His public relations agent suggested recently that the Cardo staff, most of whom are Palestinian, deliver food to Israeli soldiers hunkered down in Gilo, a Jerusalem suburb, firing back at shooting from a Palestinian village.
"I knew it would be great publicity, with all those cameras there," said Mr. Mantinband, who grew up in St. Louis. "But I couldn't do that to Tibi and the others." Mr. Tibi looked down at the marble table before them, his face impassive.
Open and gregarious, Mr. Tibi lives on the Mount of Olives in East Jerusalem. As a youth, he had studied at the Muslim school at Al Aksa Mosque in the heart of the Old City. "It was like a yeshiva," he told his boss. "They tell you everything here is yours." He barely set foot in West Jerusalem until his late teens.
All those years, he said, "I wanted so much for the opportunity to understand who is this enemy of mine."
He learned the restaurant business in the Old City. Over 10 years that taught him an easy collegiality around "this enemy," the Israelis, he advanced swiftly into management in a way that gave him a stake in Jewish-Arab economic cooperation. With Mr. Mantinband, he oversaw the opening of a second Cardo Culinaria at a Hyatt near the Dead Sea. And he grew out of his marriage, and out of his neighborhood, although he still lives there. He developed several close friendships with Israeli Jews. And, to great scandal, he divorced his Palestinian wife, marrying a Danish woman who used to work as a waitress at the restaurant.
"Think about that, I met my wife at a restaurant, too, when I was waiting tables at Grossinger's" in the Catskills, Mr. Mantinband exclaimed. "That's another thing we have in common."
But if Mr. Tibi has expanded his world, he still sees through the nationalist and religious lenses with which he was fitted as a young boy. Similarly, Mr. Mantinband, who is not a rigid ideologue and has swung back and forth politically, voting for Labor and Likud party leaders, still sees the situation just as the Israeli government puts it forth.
Mr. Mantinband believes that the violence began on Sept. 27, when two bombs exploded beside an army-escorted settlers' convoy in the Gaza Strip, killing an Israeli soldier.
Mr. Tibi believes that it began the following day, when Ariel Sharon, the Israeli rightist, made a politicized, heavily guarded visit to the area near Al Aksa Mosque.
Mr. Mantinband can't "see the big deal" of Mr. Sharon's visit. Mr. Tibi, who let those words hang in the air an extra beat before responding, can't see how it can't be seen.
"According to Islam, as I understand, anyone is welcome there," Mr. Mantinband said. "I went and had no problem."
Mr. Tibi answered, "Shmuel, did you announce it in advance, your visit? Did you arrive with 1,500 soldiers? I have my doubts about whether he was really so interested in what there was to see."
Mr. Mantinband: "It was a political game. Sharon just wanted publicity."
Mr. Tibi: "Well, he shouldn't have played a political game on one of our most holy spots on this earth. That step has been very costly. If it had been Rabin, O.K. I would have smiled. I cried on his grave. I put his picture on my wall. But Sharon had a history, really, with blood on his hands," he said, alluding to Mr. Sharon's leading role in the Israeli incursion into Lebanon in 1982.
Both men say the deterioration in Israeli-Palestinian relations has disturbed them deeply. Mr. Tibi said that when he saw the pictures of the mob murders of two Israeli soldiers in Ramallah, he wished he could have been there. "I would have defended them with my body," he said. "I have to hang my head just thinking about it."
Softened by that, Mr. Mantinband reminded him that they both think diplomacy is the only solution.
But then he suggested that the explosive issue of Jerusalem's sovereignty be put aside for "like 99 years." Mr. Tibi gently but firmly said that he did not think the Arab world's demand for sovereignty over Al Aksa could be postponed that long.
"Until this mosque is free, there's no peace to talk about," he said.
There was nothing to do but turn back to the oil lamps, urns, trumpets and helmets inside their restaurant. "It's embarrassing to be pragmatic in a situation like this," Mr. Mantinband said. "But we were really doing a very nice business here."
Mr. Tibi added: "We will, again, I hope. But we will have to make it through many more months of this, I am afraid."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imam Tibi, left, and Shmuel Mantinband have kept their Roman-themed restaurant open despite the violence. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); CHILDREN (74%); RELIGION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



782 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Truth in 2 Forms: Clinton and Lazio Both Right on Upstate

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
If there is one place that Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Rick A. Lazio have butted heads -- figuratively, of course -- it is in upstate New York. To judge by their schedules (and the television images), the barnstorming candidates have attended every parade, pancake breakfast and preschool pageant north of Peekskill.
Their views on the upstate economy could hardly be more different. Mrs. Clinton sees upstate as deeply distressed, left out of the boom that has transformed New York City. Mr. Lazio contends that it has turned the corner economically, although he acknowledges that more needs to be done. She calls him an ostrich; he calls her a gloom-monger. 
 But if you travel around the state, reading the newspapers, eating in diners, talking to businesspeople and firefighters and lacrosse moms -- behaving, in short, like a candidate without the cameras -- you can discover something rather odd: both would-be senators are right.
Not about the name-calling. About the economy.
The upstate economy is certainly not in free fall the way it was just a few years ago, and in some places it has gotten a whole lot better. But the economic climate upstate does not seem nearly as vibrant as it does in the Hudson Valley, on Long Island or in New York City. Things are up upstate, but from a very depressed base.
H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and a likely Democratic candidate for governor in 2002, agrees with Mrs. Clinton, a fellow Democrat. More surprisingly, he also agrees with Mr. Lazio, her Republican opponent. "One candidate has been more critical, which is helpful, and one has been more optimistic," he said. "I think they are both right." How can that be? The employment numbers upstate have improved, he said, but upstate residents "kind of expected to catch the boom downstate they hear so much about, and they know they are not doing as well."
Any understanding of upstate New York requires knowledge of things that may at first seem far afield from economics: history, geography, technology, psychology. And it must take into account one of the most unusual aspects of upstate: its steep population loss.
But getting a grip on upstate is not easy, in part because the place is so big and diverse. Drive north from New York City to Albany, 144 miles, and you will not even be halfway to the northern tip of the state. Hang a left for Dunkirk, and you are in for at least a five-hour drive. (It's 320 miles to the west.)
Blue-collar Buffalo, the state's second-largest city, has a not-so-friendly rivalry with white-collar Rochester, 70 miles away, and neither of them has too much in common with the Capital Region. Every upstate city or town seems to have not only its own favorite food, but also its own favorite sausages, from tiny-tinies in Troy to red hots in Lockport and white hot dogs in between (a Rochester specialty).
Economic conditions vary just as widely. In Buffalo, the number of jobs has edged up just 0.3 percent in the 12 months that ended in September, according to the State Department of Labor. Meanwhile, the average increase nationally was 2 percent, and in New York City the number of jobs rose by 2.5 percent. No wonder Buffalo citizens say they are dubious about the boom.
Head east to Glens Falls, north of Albany, and it is a different story. Jobs are growing there even faster than in New York City, by 2.7 percent. Unemployment is less than 3 percent, meaning that, basically, everybody who wants a job can get one.
Companies in the Glens Falls area, especially those that make medical equipment, are expanding rapidly, said Maury Thompson, the business reporter for The Post-Star in Glens Falls. "Every week I'm writing about 20 new jobs here, 15 new jobs there," he said.
But whether people are satisfied depends a lot on whom you ask. Mr. Thompson said he was also writing about the woes of workers who until recently made $12 or $14 an hour at pulp or packaging plants that are now closed. They found new jobs quickly, but for less than $10 an hour, so they feel as if they are struggling to get by.
Manufacturing has been declining for decades across America, so some of upstate's troubles are not unique. In some places, like Syracuse, manufacturing employment has actually been climbing, slowly, since 1997. In fact, overall employment has been rising there since 1993.
So why do some people there, and across New York State, describe their cities and towns in apocalyptic terms? The short answer is population loss.
Losing population can have a profound effect on a place. A city's tax collections shrink, but the same number of roads have to be plowed, and services like garbage collection and firefighting still have to be provided. Politicians, fighting over a shrinking pie, become even less cooperative. (Many parts of upstate are famous for their ferocious partisan politics.)
True, unemployment rates are low, but it is not because jobs are plentiful; it is just that workers are scarce. Big companies are often reluctant to move to a place with a shrinking population, for fear that they will not be able to fill future jobs.
And it is all too easy for communities to become insular; there are towns in New York where it seems as if every resident was born at the local hospital. Nostalgia for the glory days can have a tight grip, even if the last great time was when the Erie Canal opened in 1825.
For the worst case, look at Buffalo. From 1950 to 1990, a quarter of a million people -- 43 percent of the population -- moved away. Of course, twice as many left New York City, but they accounted for less than 10 percent of the population.
Since then, the population trends of the state's two biggest cities have diverged. Because of foreign immigration, downstate has been growing. According to federal census estimates, New York City and Long Island have gained 246,000 residents since 1990, but the total gain statewide is only 206,000. That means the upstate population has continued to dwindle, by about 40,000 residents.
The city of Buffalo now has fewer than 300,000 residents and has lost more than 30,000 people in the last decade, according to Census Bureau estimates. Some of them moved only to the suburbs, but the population of the whole metropolitan area fell by 4 percent from 1990 to 1999. Rochester shrank, too, as did Syracuse, Binghamton, Jamestown and Elmira.
Utica and Rome, two small and neighboring cities near the heart of New York State, lost more than 7 percent of their population, almost 24,000 people, from 1990 to 1999, according to new data from the Census Bureau. The only metropolitan area that fared worse was Grand Forks, N.D.
Like Syracuse and other places around the state, Utica now finds itself with far too much housing, some of it abandoned, said Kevin M. Kelly, a self-described "social activist of the genteel sort" and president of a retail lumber company in New Hartford, just south of Utica.
Given the nature of his business, Mr. Kelly might be expected to press for people to repair those abandoned homes, which he estimates account for 10 percent of the housing stock. But, he contends, there are just not enough people to fill them; he wants them torn down. "The sooner these buildings are gone," he said, "the better we will feel."
Many people upstate are not waiting for the federal government to solve their problems. They are taking matters into their own hands and trying different approaches.
Buffalo finally abandoned its infighting to start a strong regional advertising effort. In Rochester, small entrepreneurs are picking up the slack left by layoffs at Kodak, Xerox and Bausch & Lomb. In tiny Clyde, retirees have returned home to try to improve the tourism trade. Syracuse is knocking down its abandoned housing, Troy is improving its waterfront, and Ogdensburg, far to the north, is experimenting with industrial recruitment efforts.
But drawing attention to the strengths of upstate may be the most important way that any federal politician can help the region.
Outsiders who travel there are often struck by the beauty of the countryside, the wonderful old houses, the charming downtowns, even the number of golf courses, which, along with the decreasing number of people, make it easy to get a tee time.
Of course, you have to "like the four seasons": upstate-speak for "it snows here." But it snows in Colorado, too, and Colorado is booming.
So as the candidates make their final swings through upstate, a central question remains: "How do you bring back the skilled people who you lost in the calamity of the early 1990's?" asked Marc Goloven, an ebullient economist for Chase Manhattan Bank who sees upstate as a hot growth area. "The major challenge now is to ensure that people follow the jobs now being created."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Economic conditions vary widely in upstate New York communities like Rochester, Troy, Syracuse, Ogdensburg and Clyde, and these places are taking their own steps to improve business. Hillary Rodham Clinton says upstate is distressed; Rick A. Lazio says it is getting better. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times; top row left, Keith Meyers/The New York Times; second row left, Kevin Rivoli)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



783 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE TURNOUT;
Big Push Starts To Lift Turnout Of Black Vote

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 28

 BODY:
On black radio stations and in newspapers, from pulpits to mailboxes to answering machines, Democrats and civil rights organizations have begun an effort of unprecedented size to increase the turnout of black voters in next month's presidential election. In several close states, Vice President Al Gore's chances may hinge on the effort's effectiveness.
Advertisements proclaiming "Lift every voice and vote!" have been placed on the screens of Magic Johnson Theaters before movies, and on Black Entertainment Television. Students at black colleges are being urged by entertainers to vote, and congregants at thousands of black churches will hear the same message on the Sunday before Nov. 7. Organizers for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People have even registered more than 11,000 prisoners at county jails around the South. 
 One of the most promising tactics gets under way this week, when telephones in black neighborhoods will begin ringing with a recorded message from President Clinton, urging a vote for Mr. Gore. Similar calls by the president in 1998 on behalf of Democratic candidates in Georgia were considered an important reason black voters represented 29 percent of the total turnout, up from 19 percent in 1994.
"We got a lot of comments on those calls in 1998, and now everyone's doing it," said David Worley, chairman of the Georgia Democratic Party. "People especially love it when their answering machine picks up his call, and then they can play it for their friends."
The voter drive comes at a moment when both sides in the narrowly divided presidential race are frantically skipping from one contested state to another, many of which -- Michigan, Ohio, Missouri, Illinois and Florida, for example -- have large black populations that could decide the outcome. Although the turnout of black voters has usually lagged behind their percentage of the population, efforts in several states have shown that the turnout can be greatly stimulated by a combination of effective candidates and marketing.
Because the race is so close, turnout could be decisive. In Missouri, for example, where polls show the race to be dead even, the voting-age population is 10 percent black, but blacks generally constitute only 5 to 8 percent of the electoral turnout. If the turnout drive can boost black participation to 10 percent or more while the white vote remains steady, those extra two or three points could be enough to swing the state.
In the battleground state of Michigan, a concerted effort in 1998 resulted in black voters making up 19 percent of the total turnout, even though they represent only 13 percent of the state's voting population.
The drive has both a partisan wing, run by the Gore campaign and the Democratic Party, and an ostensibly nonpartisan wing, run by the N.A.A.C.P. in conjunction with several other civil rights organizations. But both are clearly drawing on the tradition that about 90 percent of black voters usually support Democrats, and they hope to transfer Mr. Clinton's enormous support among African-Americans to Mr. Gore. With enough money and enthusiasm, experts say they may break some records this year.
David Bositis, an expert on black voting with the nonpartisan Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in Washington, says this year's effort is by far the largest and most expensive ever made to generate black turnout, with at least 10 times as much money being spent as in 1996. If it succeeds, Mr. Bositis said, the percentage of this year's vote cast by blacks may for the first time equal that of blacks in the nation's voting-age population, which is 12 percent.
"In 1992, blacks were 8 percent of voters, and in 1996 and '98 they were 10 percent," he said. "If this effort succeeds and the vote gets up to 12 percent, blacks will be decisive in the outcome of the election."
To help reach that goal, the N.A.A.C.P. is spending $9 million -- from a handful of large donations -- on an enormous effort, known as Operation Big Vote, to boost black turnout in a dozen swing states, buying advertising and conducting bus tours with prominent political and entertainment figures urging people to vote. The tours are for the most part hitting the states the Gore campaign needs to win. Rural areas are not being neglected either; the nonpartisan Black Leadership Forum is distributing handbills in hundreds of barbershops and salons in small black communities.
But the campaign by the N.A.A.C.P. and related groups, which is not supposed to be partisan, has at times veered toward such strong criticism of the Republican nominee, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, that it has drawn fire for its tone.
One television commercial features Renee Mullins, the daughter of James Byrd, the man who was dragged to death in Jasper, Tex., in 1998. In the commercial, Ms. Mullins says that when Mr. Bush refused to support a hate crimes law after her father was killed, "it was like my father was killed all over again."
(Texas does have a hate crimes law, but Mr. Bush did not support a bill increasing the penalties for crimes based on race or sexual orientation.)
Representative J. C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma, a black Republican, said the advertisement was out of bounds in suggesting an equivalency between Mr. Bush and Mr. Byrd's killers, and predicted it would backfire.
Another advertisement, which the organization placed in The Atlanta Daily World and other black newspapers, urges voters to call Mr. Bush to complain that he has not sufficiently supported the prohibition of racial profiling.
Andrea Pringle, communications director of the N.A.A.C.P. National Voter Fund, which was established in July, said the advertisements were not intended to promote Mr. Gore. "The intent is to raise the issue of hate crimes legislation, which is an important subject," she said. "In examining any issue, people want to know where the candidates stand on issues, the same reason you have debates and such. This is an important time, an important election cycle where you have an opportunity to elect both a pro-civil rights president and a pro-civil rights Congress, which is very important to the N.A.A.C.P."
But many Republicans say the group's drive is the equivalent of soft-money advertising for Mr. Gore and the Democrats. The Republican National Committee is also beginning an unusual advertising campaign on black radio stations, urging listeners to consider the party's position on education and taxes, but the attempt is not considered likely to change the overwhelming preference of African-Americans for Democratic candidates.
The larger efforts by the Democrats and the N.A.A.C.P. are based on previous attempts to increase black turnout in carefully selected states, in some cases the same ones that have become battlegrounds in this year's contest. In Michigan, for example, black turnout increased from 9 percent of the total in 1992 to 13 percent in 1996 to 19 percent in 1998, according to a study by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. In Illinois, it rose from 14 percent in 1992 to 17 percent in 1996.
One of the largest increases occurred in Georgia, now a model for much of this year's national efforts. Georgia's turnout was 19 percent black in 1994, with that figure rising to 25 percent in 1996 and 29 percent in the midterm elections of 1998, an overall increase of more than 50 percent. Many blacks turned out to support Gov. Roy E. Barnes and two black candidates on the statewide ballot, and to vote against an unpopular candidate for lieutenant governor who had been making overtly race-based appeals to whites.
But the Democrats also used several effective marketing techniques: mailing tailored literature to black registered voters, placing ads on black radio stations and placing recorded telephone calls by Mr. Clinton and prominent black leaders to black households, urging them to vote. This technique is easier in the nine Southern states (and parts of seven others) covered by the federal Voting Rights Act, where registered voters must record their race, but it can also be used elsewhere.
"The idea was to get 50 hits per black registered voter," said Mr. Bositis of the Joint Center. "In other words, 50 times where a black voter would get a phone call or a letter, or encounter an ad on a radio station or in a black newspaper. They met their goals in Georgia, and it worked."
Georgia, where Mr. Bush has consistently been several points ahead in the polls, is not considered a battleground this year, and neither candidate is running television ads here. But the techniques used here and in other states in 1998 are being used in this election's most contested states. Late last week, Mr. Clinton began recording telephone messages that make points on behalf of Mr. Gore similar to the points he had made on behalf of Democrats candidate two years ago.
Mr. Clinton was also scheduled to conduct a telephone conference call with several hundred black pastors today, in which he will suggest points they can make in their Sunday sermons leading up to the election.
Not everyone is convinced the methods will be as effective as they were in 1998, however. Georgia State Representative Bob Holmes, who is also director of the Southern Center for Studies in Public Policy at Clark Atlanta University, said sophisticated marketing was often not as important as the nature of the candidates.
"The thing that really energizes black voters is the presence of a candidate who is seen as adversely affecting their interest," said Mr. Holmes, a Democrat who teaches political science at the historically black college. "This year, we don't seem to have the same sort of demon or enemy on the ballot. Bush comes across superficially as a good guy, so many people aren't bothering to look closely at his record." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (90%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



784 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Nassau Republicans Bench Elephant in State Senate Races

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE CENTRE, N.Y.

 BODY:
In the solidly Republican precincts of Nassau County, G.O.P. candidates have literally shed their political colors, a visible sign of their rush to abandon the county's once vaunted Republican machine.
The candidates have dropped the electric blue and orange that had come to symbolize both Nassau County and its reigning party. The new colors are soothing pastels and earth tones, a switch that is by no means inconsequential. 
 Nassau Republicans, particularly the county's five state senators, have been forced to reinvent themselves in a tough election year. They have expunged nearly all mention of their county party affiliation from advertisements, mailings and other campaign material, keenly aware that the county's near fiscal collapse helped propelDemocrats to power in the County Legislature for the first time in decades last November. Even the Republicans' longtime logo, a bald eagle, has vanished from some billboards.
The stakes are high, not only for local Republicans but also for the statewide party. Republicans are locked in a fierce struggle to maintain control of the State Senate, and they see the prospect of losing even a few races in Nassau as a grave threat.
The party's leaders in Albany need to win Nassau so much that they have instructed their candidates to steer clear of partisan appeals and run campaigns stressing cheerful nonpartisan themes: making college affordable, improving schools, cleaning up the environment, fighting consumer fraud and providing health coverage for the poor.
Michael A. L. Balboni, a Republican senator from Mineola, summed up the strategy by saying: "Nassau County is changing, and people here are less interested in party affiliation than they used to be. They are more interested in what you've accomplished. That's why I am trying to build a base of support that is truly nonpolitical."
Republicans still outnumber Democrats three to two, and service in Nassau has begun the careers of some of the state's most influential politicians, including Ralph M. Marino, the former majority leader of the State Senate, and Alfonse M. D'Amato, the three-term United States senator who anointed George E. Pataki as the Republican candidate for governor in 1994.
But this year, Nassau County is one of the most interesting -- and highly unpredictable -- places in the state politically. Its Republican base still poses a battle for Democrats, who are trying to unseat all five of the county's Republican senators.
At the same time, Republicans are expressing concern that the voter uprising of last November will continue on Election Day and sweep some Republican incumbents from power, along with one of the nation's last great political machines. The county is still facing the prospect of a state takeover as local leaders grapple with huge deficits projected over the next few years.
"Nassau Republicans are desperately trying to distance themselves from the county organization that gave birth to most of their careers," said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan, who heads the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee. "But the Democrats of Nassau County are not going to let them fool voters that way."
The county's fiscal problems are creating headaches for Republicans outside the county as well. Democrats have unleashed a series of campaign advertisements attacking Republican senators in New York City and upstate for voting to approve a $100 million state bailout for Nassau County. Their strategy is simple enough: stir up resentment against Republicans for bailing out one of the richest counties in the nation.
Democrats, too, are running campaigns that make little mention of their own agenda. Instead they try to portray the five Republican senators as pawns of Nassau County's Republican leadership, particularly the county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, who has been widely blamed for the mismanagement.
For example, one Democratic television commercial shows a man crouching under a desk as the narrator accuses Republican senators of doing Mr. Gulotta's bidding in the State Capitol. "Our state senators can't hide from their records as members of the Nassau Republican machine," the narrator says. "We need state senators who will put our needs first, not their party's."
Democrats have been particularly emboldened by the returns of last year's county races showing how poorly the Republican line did in the districts held by Nassau's five Republican state senators: Carl L. Marcellino, Kemp Hannon, Mr. Balboni, Dean G. Skelos and Charles J. Fuschillo. Over all, the Republican line received 36 percent of the vote in Mr. Marcellino's district, 41 percent in Mr. Hannon's district, 36 percent in Mr. Balboni's district, 40 percent in Mr. Skelos's district and 39 percent in Mr. Fuschillo's district.
Democrats say these figures spell potential trouble for the Republican Party when taken together with recent internal polls showing lingering voter resentment over the county's fiscal mismanagement under Republican rule. "Nassau County is a total wild card," said Martin Connor, the Democratic minority leader in the Senate.
But Republicans say that Democrats are drawing the wrong conclusion from last year's results, noting that Republican senators are far more popular and better known in their districts than are county legislators, and have records that distinguish them from local officeholders. That said, the five Republican senators have sought to distance themselves from their local colleagues, asserting that the county's problems are not the fault of the state. They have chosen to run campaigns that feature warm, almost apolitical themes that make a direct appeal to women and elderly voters.
In the Fifth Senate District near Oyster Bay, Mr. Marcellino's campaign is blanketing neighborhoods with glossy brochures and pamphlets that underscore the overall strategy. One pamphlet features a photograph of two boys playing in a pile of bright orange and red leaves and then lists the senator's work on behalf of improving schools and cleaning up the environment. "No one is fighting harder for our children than Senator Carl Marcellino," the pamphlet reads.
The pitch is almost identical -- in tone, at least -- in the Ninth Senate District here in the Rockville Centre area, where Mr. Skelos's political operation is circulating fliers reminiscent of Ronald Reagan's 1984 "Morning In America" advertisements. They feature a photo of the sun rising over water with a hopeful message: "Cutting taxes, creating jobs, a growing economy. A brighter future made possible because of Senator Dean Skelos's leadership."
On the campaign trail, the senators maintain the same buoyant tone and message. The other day, for example, Mr. Skelos visited a center for the elderly here in his district, where he delivered a stump speech laying out Albany's accomplishments this year: prescription drug coverage for the elderly, additional restrictions on gun owners, new penalties for hate crimes and financial assistance for college students.
Then Mr. Skelos noted, with some relish, that Washington could not make good on such an ambitious agenda. "This has been a remarkable year in Albany," he said, drawing applause. "I like to kid my federal friends that we accomplished in Albany what Washington is still talking about."
But for all the cheery talk, Democrats are working hard to remind Nassau voters that their state senators are creations of the Republican machine that brought the county close to financial ruin. Larry Silverman, a lawyer who is Mr. Marcellino's Democratic challenger, poked fun at the fact that Nassau Republicans are so desperate to soften their image and distance themselves from their own party that they are beginning to sound like Democrats.
"If one did not know Mr. Marcellino was a Republican, one would think he was a Democrat, based on the issues," Mr. Silverman said. "He is running on a Democratic record, not his own." But Mr. Silverman vowed not to let voters forget his challenger's political roots.
"Marcellino is the handpicked successor to Ralph Marino," he said, referring to the former majority leader, who came from Oyster Bay. "He is the product of the Nassau Republican machine. He has marched lock step with the party from the start."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Nassau County shows the State Senate Districts: Nassau County could be crucial to control of the State Senate. (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MICHAEL A L BALBONI ESQUIRE PC (54%); STATE SENATE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



785 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Make Terrorists Pay a Real Price

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"U.S. Military Placed on Highest Alert in Several Hot Spots" (news article, Oct. 24) is an ominous reminder of the changing face of war. Never again will an Arab country or terrorist confront the strength of the United States military. Rather, individual terrorists, financed by various countries and groups, will strike at our Achilles' heel: public support. 
How many lost American lives will the public endure before it calls for withdrawal of American forces from the Middle East? The argument that oil justifies our presence there is no longer valid; with or without our soldiers there, oil prices will remain high, to the detriment of the American economy.
The interesting question is whether the United States is willing to lose lives for defending democracy and regional stability. If so, then why are we not in Central Asia and Africa?
 
JAMES WINDLE
Bellevue, Wash., Oct. 24, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



786 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 2;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: When 'Just Sit Tight' Is the Wrong Advice

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
AT first it sounds like a grimly humorous way to describe what you suffered on your last airline flight, when you were wedged for hours in a tight seat and the tray table slammed into your belly like a karate chop after the passenger in front of you decided to recline for a snooze.
But "economy-class syndrome" is a real term given to what some medical experts claim is a more serious consequence of long airplane trips: a circulatory problem known as deep-vein thrombosis, which is essentially a blood clot. Economy-class syndrome turned up in headlines last week after a 28-year-old British woman collapsed and died at London's Heathrow Airport following a 20-hour, 10,000-mile flight from Australia (with a single stop in Singapore). An autopsy attributed her death to a deep-vein thrombosis. 
 Deep-vein thromboses caused by immobility, a condition first widely diagnosed among Londoners jammed into air-raid shelters during World War II, has been increasingly reported among air travelers in recent years as airplane seating became more cramped on ever-longer domestic and international flights.
How serious a threat is it? While there are disputes about the numbers of documented cases, the potential for circulatory problems caused by immobility is serious enough that airlines "have given extensive attention to this issue in the United States and will continue to do so," said Michael Wascom, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, which represents the domestic airline industry.
Mr. Wascom said that his group, in affiliation with the Aerospace Medical Association, publishes a booklet for passengers called "Useful Tips for Air Travelers," which he said "covers a variety of cabin-environment issues, including recommended practices to prevent leg compression and blood pooling" on long flights.
British advocates of strengthened governmental oversight on issues like cramped airline seating and the possible transmission of infectious diseases in poorly ventilated cabins made widely reported claims last week that in Britain alone, 30,000 air travelers experienced deep-vein thromboses after flying last year. But aviation-medicine experts in the United States say these numbers are wildly exaggerated.
"If there was that kind of an epidemic, the aerospace medical world would be very active" in sounding an alarm, said Russell B. Rayman, a physician who is executive director of the Aerospace Medical Association, a group that represents professionals involved in clinical and research work in the aviation industry.
Reports tying the blood clots to air travel have intensified in recent years, after airlines began cramming more seats into their planes. A decade ago, the space between seats in a typical airline economy-class cabin was about 35 inches. Now it is 31 inches on most planes (American Airlines gives a little more), and among frequent fliers complaints about cramped space rank second only to those about delays.
While there are disputes about the numbers of cases, airlines are supporting medical studies of deep-vein thrombosis, and some are defending themselves against lawsuits filed by passengers who claim cramped seating caused deep-vein thrombosis conditions.
On its Web site, British Airways has a health advisory that addresses deep-vein thrombosis. "It has also been referred to as 'economy class syndrome,' " the site says, adding: "This is misleading, because individuals seated in theaters, cars, trucks, buses etc. may all be at risk." And the blood clots "have been reported in travelers in premium cabins as well as economy," the site says. "It seems to be the immobility rather than the environment which is a factor."
Over all, about five million Americans a year suffer from the condition, which accounts for about 800,000 hospitalizations annually, according to the DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company, which sells a blood-thinning drug, Innopehn, used to treat the condition. Most susceptible to the ailment are people who have recently had surgery, people with cancer, heart disease or diabetes, and "those who are immobile for a prolonged period," DuPont said.
"Certainly crowding and especially immobility increase the risk" of deep-vein thrombosis in air travel and in any other situation where physical motion is constricted, said Dr. Rayman. He added that when he took an 18-hour flight home from Asia last week, in business class, he made sure to leave his seat regularly.
"I get up and wander around every hour or so," on a long flight, he said. Even if it means disturbing other passengers to climb out across a row of seats, passengers should force themselves to stretch their legs, he suggested.
The disputed claim that air travel accounted for 30,000 deep-vein thrombosis cases in Britain was made by a group in Oxford, England, called the Aviation Health Institute.
"The shock to us is we've found it can happen to anyone," said Farrol Kahn, the director of the organization. 'We'd done research on people over age 50 because that's where you tend to find pre-existing circulatory problems, but we're now seeing it in fit people in their 30's and younger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a circulatory problem that can afflict airline passengers and others who remain immobile for extended periods misidentified a blood-thinning drug that is used to treat it. The drug, manufactured by the DuPont Pharmaceuticals Company, is Innohep, not Innopehn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A jet approaching Hong Kong. Passengers can develop blood clots on long flights. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); BLOOD DISORDERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); DEATHS (74%); EPIDEMICS (72%); AUTOPSIES (69%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (64%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL WASCOM (67%); RUSSELL B RAYMAN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



787 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 5;Column 3;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Calculating One Kind of Middle Class

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER

 BODY:
COURTING the middle class, as presidential candidates are wont to do, requires no great political calculus: most Americans -- nearly 70 percent by one count -- reckon that the siren song is directed at them. And while it's true that some wealthier folk are comfortable with the label of upper-middle class, and a good quarter of industrious citizens will tag themselves working class, stark categories like "upper class" and "lower class" remain unpopular.
 Self-selecting one's station, however, is a luxury afforded only by polls, while defining the actual middle class has kept economists, politicians and sociologists busy for decades. 
 No official definition exists.
 Some experts advocate an equation of poverty-rate-times-three. Others prefer to pinpoint the median income for all households (currently around $40,000) and find some range above and below it. And every formula is flawed to the extent that it fails to accurately measure the debts, expenses and investments that inform day-to-day life for most people.
 Still, there is a range of household income, and somewhere in that, there's a middle. The following is one way of defining the nation's bourgeois, and it may be surprising to learn that this middle class, the mathematical middle, isn't quite so well-heeled as the middle class Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George Bush are romancing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday illustrating definitions of the middle class referred incorrectly to families' average spending on fuel. The $737 expense for fuel oil is annual, not monthly. The $50 monthly item was for natural gas, not gasoline.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "MOST THINK THEY ARE . . ."
Polls show that most Americans think of themselves as being middle class, regardless of their income.
 
"If you were asked to use one of these five names for your social class, which would you say you belong in: upper class, upper-middle class, middle class, working class, or lower class?"*
 
Upper-middle or middle class: 69%
Working class: 24%
Lower or upper class: 6%
No opinion: 1%
 
. . . BUT THE MATHEMATICAL MIDDLE HAS ROOM FOR JUST 20 PERCENT"
When all U.S. households are divided by income into five equally sized blocks, or quintiles, the middle 20 percent of housholds earns between $30,000 and $50,000 annually.
 
Where they are
Middle-class households in this income bracket tend to cluster on the coasts and in the Midwest.
 
Map of United States seperated by household earnings
LOWEST 20%: $0-$16,799
SECOND 20%: $16,800-$30,828
MIDDLE 20%: $30,829-$49,015
FOURTH 20%: $49,016-$76,009
TOP 20%: $76,010 and up
 
A LOOK AT THEIR LIVES
Some characteristics of the 20.8 million households in this middle income bracket. ($30,829-$49,015)
 
THE HOUSEHOLD
What do the families in this income bracket look like?
75.3% are white, non-Hispanic
11.0% are black, non-Hispanic
8.9% are Hispanic
29.5% are married couples with no children under 18
25.8% are married couples with children under 18
15.5% have children under 6
 
THE HOME
What kind of homes and possessions do people in this income bracket have?
1,787 sq.ft. is the average amount of living space
39% have two or more bathrooms
77.7% have a porch, deck, balcony or patio
37.7% have two or more cars
59.7% have a garage
 
EMPLOYMENT
Where does the money come from for households in this income bracket?
41.7% have one primary income earner
40.6% have two primary income earners
41.2 hrs is the average weekly amount of time worked
21.6% earn some income from dividend payments
 
EDUCATION
What is the education level of household heads and where do their children go to school?
13.3% of household heads over 25 have less than a high school degree
35.6% of household heads have a high school degree
19.9% of household heads have a bachelors or masters
1.6% of household heads have a PhD or professional degree
25.5% of households have children in public schools
3.6% have children in private schools
 
HEALTH CARE
Do people in this income bracket tend to have health care coverage?
82.8% of people in these households have some form of coverage
17.2% of people in these households have no coverage
16.4% of children under 18 in these households have no coverage
32.1% of adults 18-24 have no coverage
 
FINANCES
What are the average expenses for households in this income bracket?
$634 is the average monthly housing cost
$71 is the average spent monthly on electricity
$50 is the average spent monthly on gasoline (if used)
$737 is the average spent monthly on fuel oil (if used)
$1,248 is the average annual property tax paid by homeowners
 
*Gallup/CNN/USA Today Poll, Sept. 8-10, 2000, 1,216 adults
(Source: Analysis of 1997 American Housing Survey and 1999 Current Population Survey data by Susan Weber, Queens College Sociology Department)
 
Drawings (Illustrations by Gorka Sampedro)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY RATES (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); SOCIOLOGY (55%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



788 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2;Page 35;Column 1;Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 4174 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO;
After 34 Years, Unable to Let Go Of 'The Prisoner'

BYLINE: By FRANZ LIDZ; Franz Lidz, a senior writer at Sports Illustrated, is the author of "Unstrung Heroes" and writes frequently about film.

 BODY:
FOR the last 23 years, with the intensity of Newton contemplating the apple, the Prisoner Appreciation Society has pondered, debated and speculated on the properties of certain integers:
Is No. 6 really No. 6? 
Is No. 2 really No. 2?
Could No. 2 actually be No. 1?
The Prisoner Appreciation Society is not the welcoming committee at San Quentin but rather the official fan club of "The Prisoner," a British spy-fi series from the mid-1960's.
" 'The Prisoner' was the most radical and revolutionary drama series ever created for television," said Bruce Clark, who describes himself as the American coordinator of the society, which is based in Ipswich, England. "Its enigmatic theme holds up so well that 34 years after its filming, some viewers are actually fooled into believing it's a current TV production."
"The Prisoner" told the story of a secret agent who, after resigning his post, was abducted and held captive by powers unknown in a timeless hamlet called The Village. Everyone is under surveillance; no one has a name, only a number; and there is no knowing who is a friend and who is a stoolie.
Conceived and co-written by Patrick McGoohan, who also played the lead role of No. 6, "The Prisoner" addressed such issues as the individual and society, the philosophical nature of freedom, the concentration and abuse of power, and the evils of blind progress. "I will not be pushed, filed, stamped, indexed, briefed, debriefed or numbered!" was the defiant mantra of No. 6. "My life is my own!"
Mr. McGoohan wadded Orwellian paranoia, Carrollian whimsy and Kafkaesque dread into 17 hourlong episodes:in one, characters are human chess pieces moving around a board; in another, the plot unfolds in a Paris of the protagonist's mind.
While the surreal story line left more questions than it answered, the series' bewildering conclusion incited such outrage in England that Mr. McGoohan had to leave the country and lay low in Switzerland. "I wanted to have controversy, fights, discussions, people in anger waving their fists in my face," he once said. "Has one the right to be an individual? I wanted to make people talk about the series. I wanted them to ask questions, argue and think."
He succeeded. In the three decades since its debut, "The Prisoner" has become one of the most fanatically followed shows ever. The series has inspired more than a dozen books, more than two dozen Web sites and an Arizona State social-psychology course that no doubt addressed a question: Did McGoohan read McLuhan, or did McLuhan see McGoohan?
A Hollywood remake, written by Christopher McQuarrie of "The Usual Suspects" fame, is scheduled to begin shooting next spring. And next week the A & E network will release boxed sets of "Prisoner" DVD's and videos. The DVD set includes trailers, rare production stills and an even rarer 1977 television interview with the famously reticent Mr. McGoohan.
The discs promise to be an invaluable resource for "Prisoner" cultists, who subject the show's footage to the same exhaustive frame-by-frame scrutiny that John F. Kennedy assassination-conspiracy buffs devote to the Zapruder film. "In The Village," the Appreciation Society's glossy quarterly, devotes page after page to the significance of seemingly insignificant details.
"Next to Zapruder's home movie, 'The Prisoner' must be about the most analyzed piece of film in history," said Mr. Clark, who wrote the liner notes for the DVD.
Coordinator of the society's United States sector since 1983, Mr. Clark said dues-paying Appreciators number in the thousands. Many have made pilgrimages to the annual summer Prisoner Convention in Portmerion, the tiny Italianate dream town in North Wales that was the setting for The Village. Middle-aged "Prisoner" hadjiis re-enact scenes from the show, paw over its ambiguities and cavort as Villagers in piped blazers, straw boaters and flowing capes.
Instead of name tags, most conventioneers sport buttons bearing their numbers. Mr. Clark savors the irony. "It's certainly a paradox that people who believe strongly in The Individual dress up as someone else," he said. "But they're free to appreciate 'The Prisoner' any way they see fit, and any costume at our convention adds to the festive atmosphere of The Village."
Cult friction led to the cancellation of last year's "Prisoner" meeting. After a couple of statues were vandalized at the 1998 convention, trustees of Portmerion banned the event. Happily, Mr. Clark reports, the town fathers have reconsidered. Sort of. "They've given us permission to hold a convention next March," he said. At the height of the resort town's off-season.
Mr. Clark seemed slightly out of character when he appeared at the door of his split-level home in (where else?) North Wales, Pa. He was somewhat disappointingly garbed in jeans and a teal T-shirt that read: "Pinball, Fit for a King."
It's there, in a suburban outpost of the village of Philadelphia, that this former insurance underwriter makes a living by selling refrigerator magnets that depict historical markers.
"Pennsylvania has markers commemorating Johnny Appleseed, Tom Mix and the first drive-in filling station," Mr. Clark said. He plucked a magnetized No. 6 badge off his General Electric and added: "If fridges ever go to plastic, I'm in big trouble."
Mr. Clark began Appreciating as 15-year-old in Northeast Philadelphia. "I'd been a big admirer of 'Secret Agent,' McGoohan's previous series," he said. When he heard that "The Prisoner" would have its premiere on CBS, he went next door to watch it on his neighbor's color television set. "The show blew me away," he recalled. "Of course, at that age I didn't see the symbolism or understand the allegory or realize it was all about being an individual."
Now, of course, he does. Mr. Clark has attended 3 of the society's 21 summer synods and watched some episodes as many as 50 times. "But I'm not a fanatic," he said flatly. "I don't own a piped blazer or a boater or -- the ultimate 'Prisoner' collectible -- a Lotus 7, Series II," a sporty British convertible. (Another Pennsylvania motorist beat Mr. Clark to the car's license plate number used in the show, KAR 120C.)
He does, however, own two Lava Lamps, the stylish 60's accessory that "The Prisoner" helped popularize. "There were two different color models seen in No. 6's Village apartment and a huge double-decker one in No. 2's," he said with the know-it-all earnestness of a "Jeopardy" contestant. "Lava Lamps appeared in all but three episodes."
Mr. Clark knows this because he wrote an essay on the subject for that clearinghouse of Prisoneriana, "In The Village." Topics in recent issues run from "No. 6: Monk or Mystic?" to "The Prisoner, Adolf Hitler and a Breakdown of the Time-Space Continuum."
The cult of "The Prisoner" extends to the cult of Mr. McGoohan, whose refusal to give interviews only fuels his mystery. Appreciators tend to speak of the 72-year-old actor in hushed, reverential tones, scattering the words "daring visionary" before his name like rose petals the way that the name Manuel Noriega was preceded by the descriptive "Panamanian strongman." Even his faxed thank you notes are treated as if they were splinters from the true cross. "Mr. McGoohan is a very private person," said Mr. Clark, who has never met him. "We respect his privacy."
Nonetheless, "Prisoner" faithful have been known to observe Mr. McGoohan's stage performances through binoculars, like birders stalking the bright-rumped attila. He did not seem especially appreciative when a herd of Appreciators showed up in Boston for a 1985 production of "Pack of Lies" and whistled the Episode 1 jingle, "Pop Goes The Weasel," during intermission. They were tossed out of the theater.
Forever pestered by cultists seeking answers to "Prisoner" riddles, the society's "honorary president" seems to regard the organization with something approaching disdain. "Some of our British members take the show far too seriously," Mr. Clark allowed.
The most serious British Appreciator is surely Max Hora. Author of three scrupulously researched "Prisoner" tracts, Mr. Hora showed his devotion to the cause in 1982 by moving to Portmerion and opening the Prisoner Shop and Information Center in No. 6's old cottage.
"For 17 years, Max lived in The Village," Mr. Clark said. "He sold guides, stickers, pens, postcards and maps, signed up new members and answered questions about the series. He was a kind of prisoner of 'The Prisoner' until he finally moved out."
Perhaps he got paroled.
While Moynihan was in Washington fighting fire with FAP, student radicals were threatening to burn down his house in Cambridge, forcing his wife and children to evacuate. In this context, in January 1970, he wrote Nixon another of his acerbic memos. He argued that blacks were making steady progress but that black-on-black violence, radicalism and reverse racism against whites were undermining it. Moynihan thought that the most useful thing the administration could do would be to damp down rhetoric and create more jobs for unemployed black men. "The time may have come," he noted, "when the issue of race could benefit from a period of 'benign neglect."' After Nixon distributed the memo to his cabinet, a copy leaked to The New York Times, and the phrase, taken out of context, was used to bolster the accusation that he was a racist. To Moynihan, the reaction underscored the lesson he had drawn from the Moynihan Report: that liberals would never treat him fairly.
He was, in fact, edging toward the view that critics accused him of holding: that racial and social problems were hopeless -- at least so long as the left blocked sensible discussion and action. When Nixon offered to send him to New Delhi as the American ambassador, Moynihan leapt at the opportunity. India was a good place to sit out Watergate and what remained of the Nixon administration. It also got Moynihan thinking about why America was so hated in the third world. In 1975, he distilled his views into an article for Commentary, "The United States in Opposition." The essay, which set out to explain why the United States was so often in the minority in the United Nations, dissected the lock step anti-Americanism of the so-called nonaligned nations. On the basis of the article, Kissinger recommended that Gerald Ford make Moynihan the United States ambassador to the United Nations.
At the United Nations, Moynihan proceeded to do what he recommended. Unwilling to accept the State Department's preference for diplomatic inoffensiveness, he denounced, in the loudest possible terms, the hypocrisies of third world dictatorships. After Idi Amin addressed the General Assembly, Moynihan attacked him as a "racist murderer." This was too much for the bureaucracy at State, which distanced itself from Moynihan's remarks, and even for Kissinger, who drove him out after only eight months in the job. But in New York, Moynihan became a hero for his powerful denunciations of the resolution equating Zionism with racism.
Moynihan deserves great credit for his work at the United Nations, even if his accomplishment was mainly a rhetorical one. What he did there was to forcefully articulate a consistent liberal internationalism, based on democracy and respect for human rights, at a time when noninterventionism and skepticism about America's role in the world were becoming dominant strains in the Democratic Party. Indeed, looking back at the 1970's as a whole, Moynihan appears as a liberal loyalist even though he spent half the decade serving Republican presidents. Unlike many of his fellow neoconservatives, Moynihan never entirely abandoned either Democrats or the idea of an activist government, at home or abroad. He simply argued that liberals needed to be smarter, more self-critical and empirically driven. Ending his seven-year Republican exile, he announced his Senate candidacy as a Democrat in 1976. With the help of a divided left and an endorsement from The New York Times, he won a narrow victory.
Early on, he established what kind of senator he would be. Moynihan would not dominate a single field, as Russell Long did with defense, or build a record of legislative accomplishment on social issues, as Ted Kennedy has done. After Moynihan's four terms, the sole major bill to his credit is the 1991 transportation bill known as the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act, or Istea, a grab bag that has done little even to advance his own goal of supporting public transportation. Nor would Moynihan excel at pork barrel like Robert Byrd or constituent service like Al D'Amato.
Where Moynihan would prove superior was in bringing his understanding to bear on debates that otherwise might have taken place in a kind of historical and intellectual vacuum. His metier was performance in the Finance Committee and on the Senate floor, which he would hold with sardonic, digressive lectures. These speeches were most trenchant during the early Reagan years, when Moynihan found his voice in opposition. To the chagrin of his allies in the neoconservative movement, he opposed the invasion of Grenada and denounced the C.I.A.'s covert war against the Sandinistas in Nicaragua. A more consistent Wilsonian than Reagan, Moynihan argued that both actions violated international law. As a crude measure of his evolving views, his rating from the liberal Americans for Democratic Action soared from 47 percent in 1979 to 95 percent in 1982.
In the introduction to his 1988 collection of speeches, lectures and articles, "Came the Revolution," Moynihan paints his shifting stance as a bit of mystery even to himself. He records that "something in the new administration had sent me into opposition in a way I had not ever been before, not felt before." In retrospect, he points to two other factors. One was the refusal of conservatives to recognize that the Soviet Union was on its last legs. The other was his analysis of the Reagan budget deficits. Moynihan believed that they were an intentional effort to make it impossible for liberals to expand the federal government. David Stockman, the intellectual behind the budgetary disaster of the 1980's, had worked as a baby sitter for the Moynihans in Cambridge in the late 1960's. At the Gridiron Club dinner of 1981, the senator lampooned his protege's evolving enthusiasms. "I have never known a man capable of such sustained self-hypnotic ideological fervor," Moynihan said. "One day he arrives at Harvard preaching the infallibility of Ho Chi Minh. Next thing you know, he turns up in Washington proclaiming the immutability of the Laffer Curve."
As fine a period as the early 1980's was for him, he failed to emerge either as a leader of the anti-Reagan opposition in Congress or as a savior of the Democrats. In truth he lacked the discipline, focus and organization to lead. Where other senators cultivated a loyal, long-serving staff, the irascible Moynihan produced a distinguished alumni association. His current chief of staff, Tony Bullock, is his 17th in 24 years -- and the record holder at four years on the job.
Somehow, whenever Moynihan turned from analysis to action, he always seemed to lose himself in the old thickets of revenge, pride and Pyrrhic victory. This was certainly true of the 1988 Family Support Act. The bill, which was the only major welfare reform passed into law until Clinton signed the Republican-sponsored Personal Responsibility Act in 1996, was in principle an attempt to condition welfare on work. But Moynihan resisted the Reagan administration's push for something resembling workfare on the grounds that liberals wouldn't support it. Thanks to abundant loopholes in the bill, only a tiny fraction of recipients ended up working. In the years following the bill's passage, welfare rolls continued to rise.
Moynihan's inspired idea of a Social Security tax break, which he proposed in 1991, is another case in point. Having served on the commission that created the Social Security Trust Fund to provide for the retirement of the baby boom generation, Moynihan became incensed that Social Security surpluses were being used to mask the depth of the Reagan deficits. He said that if George Bush, who was then president, wouldn't address the problem, Social Security taxes should be reduced and the system returned to a pay-as-you-go basis. What was brilliant about his idea was that it used the Republican device of a big tax cut to call the bluff of fiscally irresponsible conservatives. The idea had legs. Newt Gingrich and the Heritage Foundation quickly got on board, scaring the wits out of Bush administration officials. But Moynihan left his proposal to dangle and die. After announcing it, he departed on a three-week tour of Africa and the Middle East. In the final analysis, he didn't want a Social Security tax cut. He wanted to make a point.
Why wasn't Moynihan more effective? The familiar explanation, no longer spoken in whispers, was his fondness for drink. Hodgson, whose standards are English, says his friend the senator drinks merely a proper amount. He notes that Moynihan these days imbibes nothing stronger than Tio Pepe sherry, which his aides jokingly refer to as "the Mexican ambassador" (as in, "don't bother him -- he's with the Mexican ambassador").
Beyond the drinking, however, there is the more significant matter of Moynihan's temperament. Like Nixon, he lacked the largeness of spirit necessary to transcend his animosities. When the opportunity to address social policy questions arose again after Clinton was elected, Moynihan remained too obsessed with the past to engage in another reform effort. He thought of the Clintonites as arrogant liberals of the type who had demonized him in the 1960's and 70's. Hillary Clinton and Donna Shalala's connections to the Children's Defense Fund, which had opposed his 1988 welfare bill, especially set him off. For him, the political had become entirely personal.
This temperament ultimately made Moynihan a better critic of politics than practitioner, a man with a greater aptitude for analysis than for accomplishment. Thinking and writing are activities that come naturally to him. Getting things done has always been a challenge. This was something that Moynihan recognized about himself early on. There's a striking comment in a letter written to a friend in his graduate school days that Douglas Schoen quotes in his 1979 biography of Moynihan, "Pat." Moynihan described himself as having "almost first-class critical intelligence" but "second-class abilities." This inversion of Justice Holmes's famous assessment of F.D.R. was all too acute. Moynihan's awareness of the odds against successful government action, and the perpetual tendency among his fellow politicians to ignore those odds, has made him a brilliant critic of politics. But it also prevented him from becoming a top-level political practitioner.
"Henry James somewhere describes a mind too fine to be violated by an idea," says Moynihan's old friend Irving Kristol. "Pat really was too much of a thinker to be violated by politics."
As he approaches retirement, Moynihan seems to have been devoting most of his time to writing and arguing that he was right. And to be sure, he was ahead of others on many issues. Moynihan was a lonely worrier about automobile safety in the late 1950's, before Ralph Nader happened upon the scene. He has never quite proved that the Reagan deficits were an intentional conspiracy to undermine domestic government, but he was certainly correct that they would have that effect. And in his most famous analysis, Moynihan was on the mark in arguing that the increasing rate of family breakup in the black community was a catastrophe in the making.
But many other cherished prophecies, which he touts to the point of obnoxiousness in his 1996 book, "Miles to Go," fall apart on closer examination. Moynihan asserts, for instance, that he alone foresaw the collapse of the Soviet Union, in a 1979 article in Newsweek. His writings from the 70's yield statements that can be taken as predictions of just the opposite. But even if Moynihan gets credit for forecasting that the Soviet Union would fall, he was mostly wrong about the reasons. Moynihan focused on the problem of ethnicity; he thought Uzbeks and Tajiks would throw off the chains of their colonial oppressors. Something like that happened in Yugoslavia, but ethnic conflict was a relatively minor factor in the collapse of the Soviet Union. And Moynihan drew the wrong implication from his prediction as well. He used it as an argument against the Reagan military buildup. But that buildup hastened the Soviet collapse. We spent them into bankruptcy. ("We spent ourselves into bankruptcy!" Moynihan told me, in response to this line of argument.)
To read Moynihan's earlier writings is to encounter an incisive intelligence and a fine, mandarin style (now sadly dissolved into a kind of self-absorbed baroque). It is also to come across a plethora of other forecasts that we would have heard a great deal about had they been borne out. Just before Richard Nixon was elected, Moynihan predicted that Democrats would continue to hold power with no real challenge from conservatives for decades to come. Around the same time, he asserted that the nation was about to suffer grievous division on the issue of public subsidies for parochial schools.
Moynihan does himself an injustice by encouraging us to judge his career by his predictions. In the end, it's a matter of limited interest, since no one can forecast the future with any consistency. What is more important than prophecy is analysis, and here Moynihan has few peers in politics. Since the 1950's, he has played a role unique in American politics, bringing a vast knowledge of history and social science to bear on the practical questions of what government does. Even if his conclusions have often been wrong, his insights have been genuine. For the past two and half decades, Moynihan's thinking and argument have deepened and complicated American political discourse -- something that can be said for what other senator of his time?
In recent years thoughtful statesman types like Moynihan have given way to another type, furiously aggressive and ideological. Bob Dole has gone and been replaced by Trent Lott, Bill Bradley by Bob Torricelli, Harris Wofford by Rick Santorum. These transitions have left the Senate a bitter and impatient place, a glorified version of the Gingrich House -- which is where most of the new breed came from. Replacing Moynihan with Clinton or Lazio will complete the unfortunate process.
"In '94 and '96 we took the topsoil off that place with the people who left," says Bob Kerrey, the senator from Nebraska who, like Moynihan, did not seek re-election this year. "But the real engine for making the Senate more like the House is Trent Lott. The reason you don't see the great debates is that Lott operates it like the House, limiting debate, and he doesn't like the messy amendment process."
Moynihan says much the same thing. "The notion is that there is a majority, and it will vote for what the leaders of the majority think," he told me. "The other side really doesn't have anything to say."
The institution has also collapsed socially. Instead of the old after-hours, across-the-aisle friendships developed over drinks, lunches and dinners, there are now ceaseless rounds of fund-raising solicitation and media appearances. To not return to your home state every weekend is to court a backlash from voters watching to see if their representative has "lost touch."
"Television has emptied the Senate floor," Moynihan says. "That and money, money, money. It used to be that people would start drifting over around 5, then go out to dinner at 8. Now you go to vote and turn around and go back. On the floor is somebody with charts looking up at the TV cameras. It may be at my age that my middle years just seem more agreeable, but it was much more collegial. People talked. There was a high order of civility."
Moynihan is in no hurry to leave the job he has held for 24 years. According to a close associate, the decision to retire this year was more his wife's than his. After serious back surgery, his stamina is not what it was. But in the end, Moynihan seems relieved to go because of the way the institution has deteriorated. An Oxbridge common room doesn't work if no one shows up for conversation. And these days, hardly anyone does. Moynihan's only remaining close friend, Kerrey, is leaving with him. The others are either dead, like Chafee, or retired, like Bradley, Dole and Bob Packwood.
"There's no one left in the building he can have a glass of sherry with at the end of the day," says Moynihan's aide Tony Bullock. That might be taken as a depressing valedictory for a politician who has squandered a vast influence. But what a sad comment, too, about the United States Senate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 29 about the 1960's television show "The Prisoner" misspelled the name of the village in Wales where it was filmed. The village is Portmeirion, not Portmerion.
An article in The Times Magazine last Sunday about the legacy of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan misidentified a former senator who was an expert on military affairs. He was Richard Russell, not Russell Long. The article also referred imprecisely to Mr. Moynihan's actions on the 1993 Clinton health-care bill. While chairman of the Finance Committee, he at first declined to hold hearings on the bill, but he held them in 1994.
The article also overstated Senator Moynihan's English leanings while he attended the London School of Economics. Bowler, yes. Umbrella, yes. Monocle, no.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an episode of "The Prisoner," No. 6, played by Patrick McGoohan (pictured on the poster), runs for office in The Village. (Carlton International Media)Photos: Daniel Patrick Moynihan (Henry Leutwyler); The New Frontiersman: Moynihan serving as an adviser in the Kennedy administration, with Vice President Johnson.; Leaving the Left: With Robert Kennedy in 1967, the year he called the liberal left "rigid and destructive."; Republican Interlude: President-elect Nixon announcing the selection of Moynihan as his chief domestic policy adviser.; The Pragmatic Intellectual: Moynihan in 1981, during his first term as senator from New York. He was elected in 1976. (from Elizabeth Moynihan)(left, Agence France-Presse/Archive photos; right, David Burnett/Contact Press Images.); Upstate Retreat: Moynihan at his farm in Pindars Corners, about 70 miles west of Albany.; The Irrelevant Senator: With President Clinton. Clashes with the new administration put Moynihan on the outside in policy formulation, despite the disdain he shared with Clinton for the traditional left.; The Senior Statesman: Moynihan walking the halls of Congress with Senator Patrick Leahy last year. After 24 years in the Senate, Moynihan did not seek re-election to a fifth term. (left, Neal Boenzi and David Jennings/The New York Times; right, Diana Walker/Liaison International.)(David Hume Kennerly/Sygma)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (67%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: PRISONER APPRECIATION SOCIETY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONER APPRECIATION SOCIETY (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (67%); FRANCE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes.Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); RESIGNATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); PATRICK LEAHY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2000



789 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14LI;Page 1;Column 1;Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2023 words

HEADLINE: High School Confidential: A Great Neck Eye-Opener

BYLINE: By JOAN SWIRSKY

DATELINE: GREAT NECK

 BODY:
BY most measures, Great Neck's high school students are in great shape academically, socially and economically. But for those in this wealthy enclave who might have thought their schools were immune from the problems facing schools nationwide, a student survey made public this fall has burst the balloon.
The 130-question survey developed by the Parents' Resource Institute for Drug Education (Pride, for short) seeks to measure students' involvement with drugs and alcohol, as well as the environment, in school and outside it, in which any substance abuse occurs. The Pride survey has been administered to more than seven million students throughout the country since 1982, and to 18,000 students in New York State this year, where results are used to direct state funding of local antidrug and safe-schools programs. 
 Twenty-eight Long Island school districts conducted the survey this year. But most chose not to make the results public, and certainly nowhere was there an uproar to equal that in Great Neck.
The survey, administered for the first time in Great Neck's two high schools last June and released in September, ranked the district slightly above the national average in drinking, with the percentage who reported drinking alcoholic beverages within the past year ranging from 54 percent of freshmen to 70 percent of seniors.
Student drinking is not news in Great Neck, which has several programs in place to combat it. The real surprise was that 1 percent of students reported carrying guns to school, 3 percent said they participated in gang activities, 8 percent said they had gotten in trouble with the police and 33 percent said they had threatened to harm another student.
The results for violence-related issues and run-ins with the law were all below national averages. But in an upscale community where 98 percent of students attend college, the mention of guns, gangs, threats and police involvement threw parents and school administrators into high gear.
William Shine, the superintendent of schools, and Judi Bosworth, the board of education president, met with George Morrish, commander of Nassau County's Sixth Police Precinct. Inspector Morrish said he told them that "some limited gang activity and some gang recruiting existed, but there are no weapons in the schools, no crimes, no stabbings, no shootings."
"We've gotten a few calls about kids talking about weapons," he said, "and we've gone to their homes and spoken with their parents, but the reports turned out to be unfounded. After Columbine, you have to take these things very seriously."
Many questioned the reliability of the survey. Ava Steiner, whose son is in the 11th grade at South High, said the survey was "incredibly flawed," adding: "Even though it was anonymous, there was still fear."
"I don't want to stick my head in the sand," Ms. Steiner said, "but I don't think the problems are as widespread as the report indicated."
Linda Silverstein, a Great Neck resident with one son in high school and the other in college, said, "There are always some kids who push the envelope," but added: "With so many extracurricular activities plus out-of-school activities like music, art, religious observance, travel, sports teams and SAT programs, I can't imagine that the students would function as well as they do if they're drinking as much as the survey indicated."
Some students agreed that the results had been skewed. "A lot of students took the survey as a joke and they exaggerated and lied," said Amy Katz, 17, a North High School senior and co-editor of The Guide Post, the school newspaper.
But Amy, a member of the school's peer drug-education program, said, "There is definitely a high drug usage with kids in Great Neck, and a lot of kids go to clubs in the city all the time where drugs like Ecstasy are available."
Thomas J. Gleaton, a former professor of education at Georgia State University who developed the Pride survey, defended its methodology, saying that a "lie test" is built into the survey to detect blatant contradictions and to eliminate surveys on which contradictions are found.
"Students actually like to take these tests," he said. "But if they get flak from their schools and their parents, it's not uncommon for them to deny their responses."
The district wasn't taking any chances that the survey exaggerated about guns and gangs. Dr. Shine noted that some people thought "that it was just the kids sporting with us because they saw the chance to turn the adult world upside down. But it's important not to be complacent and to think that everything is hunky-dory. Could a kid slip a gun or knife in a school bag? It's possible. If there's something we've missed, we're concerned about it."
He emphasized, however, that "the No. 1 problem is drinking on weekends and then driving."
Randolph Ross, the principal of South High School, said, "There was almost complacency among the kids that cast somewhat of a doubt on the total reliability of the survey." But he said that when he discussed the data with students in health classes, "there was agreement on alcohol and marijuana use, and there is no question about the drug Ecstasy."
Ildi Catuogno, the health department head at North High School, said: "Did the results surprise me? No. Did the results dismay me? Yes. What we offer kids might not be what they think is cool at the moment. Kids have easy access to these substances, and some people consider them a rite of passage in our culture."
The school system, she said, has had numerous antialcohol and antidrug programs in place for more than 10 years, for which the district receives between $25,000 and $35,000 a year from the state.
Bernard Kaplan, the principal of North High School, cited a peer drug-education program in which some students sign contracts forswearing drug use, an athletic code of conduct in which team members pledge to stay drug- and alcohol-free, chapters of Students Against Drunk Driving, and Parents Decide, a program "to raise the consciousness of parents that there's more work to do."
"It's not relevant that the survey said any of our numbers were belownational norms," Mr. Kaplan said. "Any drug use is of concern, whether it's for recreation or self-medication. There is a drug and alcohol problem, and anyone who says there isn't is not looking. You're competing with New York City, and parents have to be a little stronger in where they let their kids go."
He said it was necessary "to provide places where kids can socialize, but the best inoculation against drugs and alcohol is for kids to feel good about themselves. We know that the need to rebel and grow up is universal, but we have to teach kids to be empowered to say yes to good things and no to bad things."
Ms. Catuogno said that the Great Neck schools offer dances, comedy nights, drama performances, fashion shows, athletic events, pasta parties and karaoke nights. But in spite of the recreational diversions, she said, "We have to fine-tune our approach and ask ourselves what additional programs should be in place."
That is precisely what Chiara Diamond, a 16-year-old junior at South High School, had in mind when she collected signatures from 160 students for an alcohol-free Friday and Saturday teen nightclub.
"The only real place to go is the movie theater, which becomes uninteresting after a while because kids want to go to a place where they can talk and be loud, and Gino's Pizzeria, but the only thing kids do there is stand outside and smoke and talk," Chiara said. "But that gets old and boring once you've been everywhere a gazillion times."
Lily DeSimone said she thought the problems were worse than described in the survey. The Great Neck real estate agent, a former P.T.A. member whose two daughters graduated several years ago from North High, recalled hearing that "many of my kids' friends went to school at 8 in the morning and they were already drunk or stoned. The pot that was available to them was unbelievable because there are so many kids, even in eighth grade, walking around with credit cards and $200 in their pockets, so what kick are they going to get? Not from shopping. So they look for something else.
"Here, like in all affluent communities, parents want to buy a home where they think their kids are safe walking to school and even staying home alone," Ms. DeSimone said. Venturing candidly into a realm where real estate agents usually won't go, she added: "So there's a lot of denial about sex and drugs and drinking, even though they're all rampant, and that creates a false sense of security and therefore real estate value stays high and homes remain in demand."
Norman Wheeler, a social studies teacher at South High, said: "There is a small handful of parents who are somewhat careless about keeping track of their children, but the actively involved parents are trying to find a way to reach them. This community realizes the more information their kids have about alcohol, drugs and sex, the better armed they are to make intelligent decisions. But some parents want to be pals instead of parents, and they don't know where to draw the line."
Dr. Ronald Savarese is a clinical psychologist from Great Neck. "If kids are unhappy at home and/or struggling with some form of undiagnosed adolescent depression, they are more prone to get involved with drugs and alcohol," he said. Noting that 5 percent of students surveyed reported that they often thought about committing suicide, he added: "Adults can change jobs, get divorced and pack up and move to Colorado, but kids have no place to go, and feel trapped. In fact, they are trapped.
"Today's generation is less secure than they appear, and much more vulnerable than many parents are willing to acknowledge," he continued. "They live in a highly competitive environment in Nassau County, and they're being raised in a tremendous amount of wealth, with high expectations and pressure to excel."
Others urged parents to be more involved in their children's activities. George Rodriguez, a researcher in pediatric surgery at Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park, attended a recent P.T.A. meeting at South High, where his son is in the 10th grade.
"It's depressing that in a school of 1,000 kids, only 35 people attended," he said. "Parents are too busy with their social lives and don't spend enough time with their kids, watching what they're doing."
Mr. Rodriguez said that last year, the P.T.A. mailed a booklet, published by the Town of North Hempstead, to every parent of a high school student in the district. The booklet, "Parties: No One Has The Right to Allow My Child to Drink Alcohol or Use Drugs on Their Property," described the illegality and legal consequences of giving alcohol to minors, including in a home environment.
"But the parents didn't read them," Mr. Rodriguez said. "Unless they're threatened by a financial fine or jail, they don't pay attention."
He cited an incident last summer in which a teenager in Manhasset was having a party and serving alcohol. When a neighbor called the police, the parents of the teenager were hauled off to jail in handcuffs.
"If there were more publicity of this kind of event, people would be more aware, and hopefully, they'd watch their kids more carefully," Mr. Rodriguez said.
Ms. Silverstein said that the police blotter of a local newspaper "gives sketchy details of local burglaries, auto thefts and drunk driving arrests, but no names are ever mentioned, and there is no follow-up on the disposition of the cases. If police are called to an open-house party, for example, I believe that regular reporting of these types of incidences would make parents more aware that there's bad behavior occurring out there, more than they think, and that not all parents are as responsible as they could be when it comes to supervising their teens."
Mr. Rodriguez said: "We have to stop the apathy. I wish I could read the minds of parents who are neglectful to see what makes them like this. We have to make more noise, maybe forcing parents to sign a paper saying, 'I care.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 29 about a survey of student behavior at Great Neck's high schools misstated the occupation of Ronald Savarese, who commented on the pressures that may lead teen-agers to drug and alcohol abuse. He is a certified social worker, not a clinical psychologist.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students heading to class at North High School in Great Neck, and Chiara Diamond, below, a junior at South High School, who collected 160 signatures from students for an alcohol-free nightclub for teenagers. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH HIGH SCHOOL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH HIGH SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); GANGS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); RANKINGS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); PARENTING (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); 

PERSON: AMY KATZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



790 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3949 words

HEADLINE: Newt at Rest

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was about Rick Lazio.

 BODY:
One peculiarity of this political season is that we don't have Newt Gingrich to kick around anymore. Wasn't it only two years ago that he was marshaling his armies like a silver-haired Napoleon? Newt -- he was one of those tabloid figures who needed only a first name -- traveled to 48 states that year and raised tens of millions of dollars in a campaign that was really a crusade against a prevaricating, adulterous, untrustworthy President.
The crusade, of course, failed. Today President Clinton is among the most popular political figures in America, while Newt Gingrich has a Web site and a consulting company and two nice offices in Washington. Though Gingrich was the most powerful speaker of the House since Sam Rayburn, or perhaps since Joseph Cannon almost a century ago, it's safe to predict that, unlike them, he will not have a House office building named after him. Frank Luntz, once the pollster to the Republican revolution and a Newt acolyte, says of Gingrich: "He was the single smartest political figure of the last 50 years, and now no one seeks his advice. It's a Shakespearean tragedy." 
 Well, K Street is not exactly the blasted heath; and Gingrich, who has landed quite comfortably on his feet, as virtually all ex-politicians now do, says that he prefers the metaphor of Cincinnatus retiring to his farm. He's making good money giving speeches to the faithful, and he has married Callista Bisek, a 34-year-old Congressional aide, and he is devoting a good deal of his time to studying the kind of Tom Swift science that has always intrigued him. And so he is able to summon up all the requisite scorn when he says, as ex-politicians now do, "I don't feel diminished by the absence of this city's version of importance."
Sic transit gloria mundi, as Cincinnatus might have put it. Nevertheless, Gingrich's stunning rise and vertiginous fall retrace the arc of a radical conservative movement that only a few years ago seemed about to reshape national politics and that now, at the verge of a presidential election pitting two moderate and extremely cautious men against each other, is barely a memory.
A conversation with Newt Gingrich puts one in mind of that ad for stereo speakers that shows the listener being practically blown out of his armchair by a howling wind. Gingrich may be the only figure in American politics with a mind equal to Bill Clinton's, but while Clinton's years at Georgetown, Oxford and Yale polished, and to some extent conventionalized, his intellectual habits, Gingrich -- who himself studied at Emory and Tulane -- has preserved the eccentricity and unpredictable enthusiasms of a small-town autodidact.
Gingrich has always said that he planned to be a zookeeper or a paleontologist before he discovered (at age 15) that he had a mission to save the world from barbarism. Gingrich's peculiar force of character comes from this combination of intellectual energy, self-absorption and missionary faith. He has one of those powerful minds that does not brook fine distinctions, which may explain why he was better suited to politics than to teaching history, his first profession. Sitting in his office, hanging on to my chair in the face of his gale-force monologues, I found myself either nodding weakly or arguing vehemently.
A typical exchange ran as follows: "In 1995 and 1996, between the unions, the Democrats and the Chinese Communists, I took 125,000 negative ads."
"The Chinese Communists?"
"Where do you think Clinton got part of the money?"
"Isn't that pretty indirect?"
"O.K.; between the illegal foreign money from Buddhist monks and others, the illegal American money, the unions and the Democratic Party. . . . "
I was, of course, accepting the premise that Gingrich had personally been the target of 125,000 negative ads.
It's easy to forget, now that he has gone into eclipse, but this eccentric and voluble figure pulled off one of the great political feats of the last half-century: he united the traditional party of the establishment behind an incendiary language scarcely heard in Washington since the days of Pitchfork Ben Tillman, and then, in 1994, led the party to its first majority in the House of Representatives in 40 years. And in their first 100 days in office, Congressional Republicans rammed 9 of the 10 planks in their Contract With America through the House. For a brief period, power had shifted from the White House to the Congress, and specifically to the office of the speaker of the House.
But this was, as we now know, an amazingly brief period, for in late 1995 the Republicans forced a shutdown of the government over their demand for a balanced-budget bill, thus sacrificing forever whatever moral advantage it had gained over the president.
I asked Gingrich if the shutdown had been the G.O.P.'s Waterloo, as conventional wisdom has it. "I run this game film in my own head constantly," he said. "If we had come in more reasonable, we would have been sucked into the city, we would have been negotiated into normalcy, like George Bush in 1990. You could see them gradually being absorbed into the Democrats, into 'This is reality; how can you fight reality?' "But was the shutdown necessary? Gingrich conceded that it was a disastrous miscalculation; but it was a halfhearted concession. He added, "It was really important to take a former minority party that did not have the habit of leading and get it really intense about taking on the president and forcing the budget and forcing him on welfare reform." Gingrich told me that when he related our conversation to John Kasich, head of the House Budget Committee and a key negotiator in 1995, Kasich said that he believed the president would never have signed a balanced-budget bill in 1997 if the Republicans hadn't already proved their willingness to jump off a cliff over the issue. In other words, it wasn't a mistake at all.
You won't find too many Republicans willing to buy that, but there can't be much doubt that in the mid-90's the party succeeded in shifting the center of the debate significantly to the right. The reappearance of Dick Morris in the White House in the spring of 1995 and the president's famous statement in his 1996 State of the Union address that "the era of big government is over" testify to the enormous influence wielded by the Congressional Republicans.
Looking back at that time, Robert Reich, the former secretary of labor and the leading liberal inside the Clinton White House, says, "The point of least resistance was to move toward the way Newt Gingrich looked at the world." Reich points out that when President Clinton said that he would "end welfare as we know it," he meant that he would increase funds for job training and health and child care for welfare mothers to ease their transition to work; the bill he signed, with its stringent time limits, represented the Contract With America's version of welfare reform, though he was able to moderate the bill's effects in subsequent legislation.
The same is true with the idea of a balanced budget. The Clinton administration arrived in the White House believing that while it was important to reduce the deficit in order to stimulate the economy, there could be no justification for the drastic cuts in spending that would be required to erase it altogether. But, as Gingrich says, "Dick Morris convinced Clinton that we represented the majority of the American people on the core values." Or, rather, Morris convinced the President that the majority wanted a balanced budget, whatever the cost. In 1997, the president signed a bill promising to eliminate the deficit by 2002 and incorporating a cut in capital gains taxes that the Democrats had long opposed. Clinton won the political battle, but the new budgetary policy came from the Contract With America.
What Gingrich still cannot bring himself to acknowledge was precisely how transitory, and how ruinous, that triumph turned out to be. The government shutdown was part of a far larger campaign to delegitimize government itself and to discredit the liberal culture that had sustained the big-government idea. This was the barbarism that Gingrich had promised to rout. "People like me are what stand between us and Auschwitz," he said in 1993, when the Republicans weren't yet in power, and so Gingrich was saying anything that would get him in the papers or on TV. "I see evil all around me every day."
And since the Democratic Party was the partisan expression of that liberal culture, the culture war and the political war were one and the same. Gingrich surrounded himself with Sun Belt figures like Dick Armey and Tom DeLay who shared his passions. And they failed, because the American people did not in fact hate government, or the Democrats, or even the liberal culture. Not only did Clinton win the battle of public opinion, but on all those issues that had to do with personal values and cultural choices -- abortion, gay rights, school prayer, even the despised National Endowment for the Arts -- the G.O.P. made virtually no progress. And these failures culminated in the fiasco of the impeachment battle.
Gingrich views impeachment as yet another crusade that had to be waged no matter the outcome. (This yen for the heroic but fruitless campaign may constitute the perfect proof that Gingrich was more suited to insurgency than to leadership.) "Neither our base nor our principles would have tolerated giving the President a pass on perjury," he says, referring to the deposition in which Clinton said he did not have a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky. Gingrich says that he found it "astonishing" that leading Democrats simply rallied to the president's side, while during President Nixon's impeachment drama prominent Republicans like Howard Baker "put their country ahead of their party." When I pointed out that few Democrats considered Clinton's misdeeds commensurate with Nixon's, Gingrich said, "The question is, What do you think the precedent is of allowing a sitting president to lie under oath to a federal judge and a federal grand jury, and whether you think as a precedent for the future that moves you a step closer to Nigeria and Indonesia." Here was a characteristic Gingrich rhetorical device: a question that mutated into its own answer.
But hasn't Gingrich sacrificed the right to moral grandstanding? After all, at the time of the impeachment he was himself conducting an illicit affair with Callista Bisek. I asked Gingrich as much, and he shot back, "I wasn't lying under oath." It was clear we weren't bantering anymore. "I've been through two divorce depositions in my life," Gingrich said grimly, "and I told the truth both times, because you swear to tell the truth."
"All I mean is -- "
"I just told you what I mean." It was about truth, not sex.
Of course, Gingrich is on shaky ground here too, since in 1997 he was reprimanded by the House and fined $300,000 for furnishing false testimony in an ethics case instigated against him by House Democrats. But Gingrich has always taken the position that he merely accepted assertions from his lawyers that turned out to be false; and while he is a fiery absolutist when it comes to his enemies, he permits himself the latitude of fine distinctions. He considers himself a victim of partisan politics; he considers President Clinton an unprincipled liar and a threat to national security. "A leader about whom you never know anything in terms of the truth," he says solemnly, "is a very serious problem in a free society."
Gingrich does concede that he made a serious misjudgment about public opinion. The G.O.P. made the 1998 campaign a referendum on Clinton's behavior because they genuinely despised him and because their base demanded it; but they also believed it would sell. In the end, the public's repudiation of the moralistic view of Clinton was of a piece with its repudiation of the Republicans' fixation with private choices and private behavior. Among Gingrich's own miscalculations was the decision to release quickly the 453-page Starr report, the seamy details of which wound up turning the public not so much against the president as against Starr and Gingrich and the Republicans.
And what did he learn from all this? "I realized," Gingrich says, "that I was out of sync with the culture. This is a culture that is much more open, and has gone through many more experiences, than a person of my age and my background understood." Of course, given the experiences Gingrich himself has gone through, this may be just a trifle disingenuous.
If he hadn't stepped down after the disastrous 1998 election, Gingrich probably would have been defenestrated by his party. He had alienated both conservatives and moderates, and he had far surpassed Jesse Helms as the Democrats' designated effigy. One is left to ponder the man's tragic flaw, in Frank Luntz's overheated language. Luntz accuses Gingrich of ignoring prudent advice -- that is, his own -- in favor of the warlike counsel he received from his chief political adviser, Joe Gaylord. But this is like blaming Dick Morris for President Clinton's "triangulation." The underlying point, as Luntz himself recognizes, is that though Gingrich was in many ways a brilliant strategist, he continually made the kind of tactical miscalculations that come of zeal. Dan Meyer, Gingrich's former chief of staff, says: "Newt just couldn't help himself. He got in front of a rabid partisan crowd, and they just loved his red meat."
In his 1998 book, "Lessons Learned the Hard Way," Gingrich recalls that Ronald Reagan had refused to force a government shutdown of his own, saying, "I wear the white hat, and the man in the white hat doesn't force that kind of crisis." Gingrich says he forgot about that lesson, but the truth is that he lacked Reagan's blithe confidence -- the confidence born of all those B movies -- in the power of the white hat. Gingrich was all too prepared to wade through blood to victory. He could not control the passions he aroused, and so, like Trotsky or Danton, he was consumed by the revolution he had fostered.
And yet Gingrich clings to the metaphor of Cincinnatus, the emperor who stepped aside after bringing peace to Rome. After our second conversation, he sent me an e-mail message, titled Cincinnatus Versus Shakespeare, that suggested I list "the MINIMUM things" he deserves credit for and helpfully included his own minimum list -- tax cuts, welfare reform, balanced budget, "working to strengthen our intelligence and military capacities," etc.
What, in fact, is his legacy? It's an open question whether the affirmation of many of the party's economic principles is a greater or lesser phenomenon, historically, than the rejection of its cultural agenda. And even the budgetary victories may prove transitory, for the surplus has made fiscal restraint at least momentarily superfluous. On the day of one of my conversations with Gingrich, The Washington Post carried an article headlined, "Spending Floodgates Open on Hill." Republicans, it seemed, were now vying with the Democrats to burst the spending caps that had been one of Gingrich's proudest achievements. When I pointed out to Gingrich that the revolution seemed pretty short-lived, he said, "How long is the Progressive Era? Nineteen-ten to 1915." Sic transit, indeed.
Would a victory by George W. Bush consolidate the legacy of 1994? Bush p<heart>re was the embodiment of the anodyne country-club conservatism that Gingrich and his allies abhorred. But Gingrich insists that the son would be a worthy carrier of the "opportunity society" vision, and he reels off the elements of the conservative credo in George W.'s platform -- school vouchers, Social Security privatization, tax cuts, faith-based volunteerism. On the other hand, Bush avoids the use of the ideologically loaded word "voucher," and his proposal for a deep tax cut has seemingly aroused no more enthusiasm than the one that the Republican right more or less forced on Bob Dole in the 1996 campaign. A Bush spokesman confirmed that Bush's campaign strategist Karl Rove has known Gingrich for many years, and "occasionally visits with him" to discuss matters of policy. But Bush himself never mentions Gingrich's name, and is practically running against his own party's Congressional leadership, as Clinton pretty much did in regard to the House Democrats in 1996.
Nowadays, newt gingrich is working on the next paradigm. Gingrich has, of course, always been in the paradigm business. Twenty years ago he was talking about the shift from "the liberal welfare state" to "the conservative opportunity society." The light, Reaganesque side of him dwells in a sunlit future, a visionary landscape in which man's creative powers are given free rein. Now that he no longer has armies to deploy, Gingrich can devote his energies to bringing this world into being. Visitors to his Web site, Newt.org, can find, in addition to a collection of press clippings, information about Max Tax, Gingrich's proposal to cap federal, state and local taxes at 25 percent of any individual's income; Social Security Plus, Gingrich's proposal to partly privatize Social Security; and the Age of Transitions, a 32-page paper in which Gingrich calls for a new politics based not on the traditional distinctions of left and right but on the need to address a world transformed by technological change. Gingrich suggests that only the most dramatic proposals will re-engage an electorate now busily pursuing the private satisfactions available in this new world; the first two big ideas he suggests are Social Security Plus and Max Tax.
Like George Gilder, the entrepreneurial evangelist turned futurist, Gingrich believes that free markets and new technology will transform the world. Years ago, Gingrich was fascinated by space; one of the few agencies he never wanted to cut was NASA. But space was a dud in regard to civilian applications, and Gingrich has since moved on. He now spends a good deal of his time learning about advances in medical care, information technology and nanoscience, which studies processes and seeks to build devices at the level of the individual atom or molecule. He has been to Georgia Tech to talk about quantum mechanics and to M.I.T. to talk about the "nanoworld," and he recently met with three neuroscientists at Berkeley who invented an incredibly successful reading system using an M.R.I. scanner. "It's a little bit like Lewis and Clark," he says giddily. "There's a whole continent out there." Gingrich has the kind of all-American optimism that requires wide-open spaces, even if figurative ones.
Gingrich is unlikely to make a dent in the debate over taxes or Social Security, but he may well have an influence on the more obscure field of science policy. He argues, for example, that we need to place far greater emphasis on math and science education than we have in the past. "If you don't have the breakthroughs in math and science," he says, "you will not produce the people in America for the next generation to lead us, and we will not lead the planet for 20 more years. We're like Britain in the 1870's and 80's, when their culture couldn't make the shift socially to an engineering and management society."
Gingrich says that if you have to pay kids $1,000 to take calculus, then so be it. He foresees an electronic system of patient records that would prevent many accidental hospital deaths. He wants to give telecommunications firms incentives to scrap copper wire in favor of fiber-optic cable, he wants to accelerate the use of the Internet as a learning tool in rural areas and he wants to significantly increase the federal research budget. As a conservative, Gingrich would rather be compared with Teddy Roosevelt than with Herbert Hoover. "This requires conscious thought," he says; "you don't have the luxury of just opposing big government."
In late September I accompanied Gingrich to a conference on nanoscience held by the National Science Foundation. Almost everyone there had either facial hair or dubious footwear, and Gingrich, portly and immaculate in white shirt and gray suit, was perfectly at home among them, making nanochat with impressive fluency. Nanoscience is Gingrich's favorite subject. He told me that he expected it to be "bigger than the entire 20th century" -- which is to say, very, very big. Scientists are beginning to understand how organic processes like cancer operate at the molecular level; in coming years, Gingrich says, they hope to be able to design molecular-scale anti-cancer agents. "You can drink three million of them with your orange juice, and they'll eat up the cancer," Gingrich explains. And there won't be any side effects or bad consequences.
Gingrich was invited to kick off the session, and he talked about the new world that was a-borning. He spoke extemporaneously and, as usual, torrentially. "I believe that we're actually at the edge of an age of discovery which is vastly richer than anyone understands," he said. Just as the steam engine and the textile mill and electricity created previously unimaginable levels of wealth in early ages, so would information technology and biology in the age that was dawning -- perhaps as much as $100 trillion this century. Nanoscience might well solve problems of scarcity and of environmental degradation. The change, he said, might be so great that the expression "orders of magnitude" would be too modest to express it. He couldn't quite think of an expression that would do it justice.
The funny thing was that none of the scientists who spoke after Gingrich were as fervid. They all agreed that nanoscience would produce extraordinary breakthroughs, but they were full of caveats that come of hard experience. One cautioned that it might take longer than expected for changes at the level of science to reach ordinary people, while another spoke of "the fantasy of a risk-free society." Lester B. Lave, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University, listed innovations that had proved to be less effective or more expensive than what they replaced; William Tolles, a consultant and former Navy scientist, spoke of the danger of "nanohype," and specifically of "visionaries who have painted an unrealistic view of the future, never having been in a laboratory." That sounded familiar.
Gingrich listened intently, and at the lunch break I asked what he had taken away from the session. Immediately he said, "I had a 10-minute conversation with Richard Smalley beforehand which was worth the whole morning." Smalley, a professor of chemistry at Rice, had explained to Gingrich that fears over the possible creation of "nanobots" -- self-replicating, mechanical nanoscale robots -- were absolutely groundless, since this would constitute a problem in epidemiology that science could readily solve, as it had solved previous outbreaks of dangerous living organisms. Gingrich apparently found this reassuring.
I asked if he had noticed the pervasive air of caution. He nodded impatiently. "When you get a lot of scientists in a room, they tend to become psychologically correct," he explained. He went off on a tangent about computer companies that had been too obtuse to capitalize on big breakthroughs. Mike Roco, an National Science Foundation official, overheard us and said, "I'm very concerned that we have to stand up against exaggeration." Gingrich cut him off. "Against exaggeration on both sides," he said.
It is probably safe to say that if you wanted to enlist public figures in a campaign against hyperbole, you wouldn't start with Newt Gingrich.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homecoming king: Gingrich in Georgia in 1996. His zeal would be his undoing. (Nina Berman/SIPA Press); Gingrich in Washington in 1995, before the calamitous shutdown. (David Burnett/Contact Press Images); Newt Gingrich (Jeff Reidel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



791 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Give Me Liberty, or Something Else!

BYLINE: By Kwame Anthony Appiah; Kwame Anthony Appiah is Charles H. Carswell professor of Afro-American studies and of philosophy at Harvard University.

 BODY:

 Two Faces of Liberalism
 By John Gray.
 161 pp. New York:
 The New Press. $25. 
 The word "liberalism" has very different associations in England from those that it evokes in these United States. There, political liberals are supposed to care especially about liberty -- favoring, for example, the abolition of legal restraints on drug use, consensual sex and suicide -- while economic liberals are especially preoccupied with the free market and property rights. Here, in a country where everyone at least pays lip service to liberty and the free market, liberalism's most distinctive concern is with the economic conditions of the disadvantaged, which in Europe would be the focus of the Socialist left. Despite this divide in our public vocabularies and practices, there is a lively trans-Atlantic philosophical conversation about the meaning of the liberal tradition. The pre-eminent figures in this debate are John Rawls, in the United States, and the late Sir Isaiah Berlin, in England.
These two very different figures reflect the political gap with which I began. Rawls is much more ambitious regarding the government's role in defending the worst off. Sir Isaiah, on the other hand, was an exile from Soviet Russia who spent much of his life warning of the dangers of government's infringement upon our freedoms in the name of a higher good. Faced with the three-part slogan of the French Revolution, both support liberty, Rawls adds equality, and neither has very much time for fraternity.
John Gray, who teaches at the London School of Economics, is a leading scholar of this liberal tradition. He has published a much-discussed study of Isaiah Berlin, editions of the writings of John Stuart Mill -- the greatest of the 19th-century English liberals -- and a book entitled "Liberalisms." He is the author, too, of a work on "postliberalism," which conforms to the rule that to be "post" something is usually also to be at least a little bit against it. Gray's new book, "Two Faces of Liberalism," certainly aims, in the same spirit, to take us beyond the current debate. As a result, his first task is to contest the existing framework of assumptions.
His complaints against Rawls -- which can stand in for complaints about much American liberal philosophy -- are manifold. (Indeed, Gray's approach to American liberalism is reminiscent of Prof. Quincy Adams Wagstaff, the Groucho Marx character in "Horse Feathers," who sings, "Whatever it is, I'm against it.") He finds Rawls guilty of "legalism" because he wants to preserve our rights through a constitution that effectively removes many matters from political debate, putting them, as our system's domestic opponents often say, in the hands of unelected judges. This legalism not only expresses a hostility to politics, Gray argues, but it also depends on the assumption that when rights conflict, those judges can decide which right should triumph without having to rely on controversial moral views. His point is that the decision of which right to favor very often depends on contested moral claims.
It is here that we find Gray's deepest quarrel with much of recent American liberal philosophy. He opposes what he calls the liberal "ideal of rational consensus," which supposes that reasonable people must, in the end, agree that one set of fundamental political arrangements is the best. If that were true, then it would indeed be possible, as Rawls proposed, to put the political system itself forever beyond political dispute. But Rawls believes, like most of his peers in liberal philosophy, that there are many questions about how we should live our lives that we do not need to agree upon. It is therefore, I believe, hyperbolic to say, as Gray does, that "the predominant liberal view of toleration sees it as a means to a universal civilization." Nevertheless, Rawls does think we have reason to accept the value of certain fundamental human rights, and that these provide the basis for shaping a constitution, while Gray believes, by contrast, that almost nothing about constitutional arrangements or basic rights can be settled in advance of political debate.
To replace the program of Rawls and his team, Gray offers what he calls the liberalism of "modus vivendi." "The end of modus vivendi," he says early on, "is not any supreme good -- even peace. It is reconciling conflicting goods. That is why modus vivendi can be pursued by ways of life having opposing views of the good."
All people, Gray suggests, whatever their way of life, have an interest in coexistence. There are also certain universal evils that endanger a worthwhile human life based on any conception of the good. "To be tortured, or forced to witness the torture of loved ones or compatriots; to be separated from one's friends, family or country; to be subjected to humiliation or persecution, or threatened with genocide; to be locked in poverty or avoidable ill health -- these are great evils for all who suffer them. Insofar as a conception of the good does not encompass these experiences, it is defective, even delusive." So he is in favor of an international regime of human rights to protect people from these universal evils. "There are minimal standards of decency and legitimacy that apply to all contemporary regimes, but they are not liberal values writ large."
Gray's argument for modus vivendi and against the liberalism of rational consensus relies heavily on what Isaiah Berlin called "pluralism," the view that "not all questions about the good have one true answer." Confucian ideals of loyalty to family and friends and Protestant individualism, for example, may well suggest different notions of the good, and the pluralist holds that neither need be wrong. Because they value things differently, upholders of these different ways of life will sometimes not be able to agree to the liberal framework of rights. The devout may want a society in which blasphemy is a crime; the prudish may desire a society in which pornography is proscribed. For them, freedom of expression cannot extend to blasphemy or to smut. The defenders of free speech will reply that all are free to turn a deaf ear to offensive speech, or to exercise their own freedom to condemn it, but that restraining it offends against the rights of the pornographer. In such cases, Gray argues, we cannot guarantee that one view will be correct and the other mistaken. Value pluralism means there can be more than one way of being right. Gray's view, in effect, is that there is less of a consensus on moral matters across the various ways of life than liberal theorists suppose. What is more, some of the most important disagreements that divide people and nations cannot be settled by reason alone.
You might think that the proper liberal response would be to say, as Isaiah Berlin did, that people should be left to make their own choices. The only value that the government should uphold, once it has ensured the peace, is personal autonomy. Not, of course, in the form of a fancy philosophical theory, but just by letting people take responsibility for making their own lives. But that is where John Gray thinks that contemporary liberals on both sides of the Atlantic get it wrong. Once you plump for personal autonomy, you are taking sides. Personal autonomy will argue for the abolition of blasphemy laws and permitting pornography, and at that point the devout and the prudish have a problem. If the importance of autonomy is one of the issues about which there are many true answers, then liberalism is imposing its answer on people who have a reasonable, if different, answer of their own.
Pluralist liberals will respond with varying degrees of vehemence. Some will argue, robustly, that autonomy is necessary for everyone, regardless of tradition, if you are to live a life that is good by your own standards. Others will maintain, less robustly, that while autonomy has, indeed, not been part of every tradition, this fact raises few problems in a world where everybody is increasingly coming round to the liberal celebration of autonomy.
Gray anticipates both lines of argument. He says, for example, that some Asian immigrants in Western countries provide an example of people who have prospered "without adopting personal autonomy as an ideal." But most liberals are not likely to find this very convincing. If you believe that autonomy is a central human value, you will deny that those who seek to live without it are doing well, or at least as well as they could. The robust liberal response is not going to put off by the bare assertion of the contrary. And the less robust defender of the practicality of liberalism is not bound to accept Gray's rather sketchy description of these Asian immigrants. It is at least arguable that most South Asian immigrants in Britain and East Asian immigrants in the United States, like many people who have stayed in Asia, have become increasingly attracted to autonomy of a sort. Gray dismisses those of us who believe this as "Americanocentric," but that is more insult than argument. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); ENGLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); ENGLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LIBERALISM (95%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: ISAIAH BERLIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



792 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 37; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: It's a Small World

BYLINE: By Thomas Frank; Thomas Frank is author of "One Market Under God" and editor of The Baffler.

 BODY:

 THE GLOBAL ME
 New Cosmopolitans and the Competitive Edge:
Picking Globalism's Winners and Losers.
 By G. Pascal Zachary.
 313 pp. New York: PublicAffairs. $26. 
 Of the many forms of ecstatic millennialism that accompanied the dawn of the new economy, few have proved more alluring or durable than the belief that market economies have some special relationship with the downtrodden of the earth. The market's dynamic inclusiveness is hailed in op-ed defenses of the World Trade Organization, hymned in those gorgeous-mosaic Cisco commercials, saluted by berguru Tom Peters in one of his sorties against the all-white managerial staffs of the past.
The logic behind this particular bit of corporate idealism goes like this: ethnic diversity gives rise in some reliable way to "creativity," therefore ethnically diverse companies will outperform ethnically uniform companies. Taken a little farther, the idea leads to a whole range of liberationist claims: markets militate against national boundaries; markets smash racism; markets want us to be free to wander and to sell our labor to whomever we choose.
Greater diversity in the workplace is obviously a welcome development. At the same time, the instances of business rewarding racism or profiting from racism -- from slavery and colonialism to redlining and ghetto pricing -- are so plentiful and familiar that the idea of markets as an inexorable antiracist force has never really been taken seriously by the public.
Stepping forward to defend this crucial free-market faith, G. Pascal Zachary, a senior writer at The Wall Street Journal, announces in "The Global Me" that he has discovered "a new gold standard for human development": "Hybridity," a sort of ultradiversity, is the factor determining the fates of industrialized nations, the thing that makes these countries "vital or stagnant, winners or losers." The model citizen of this new order is a figure he calls "the mongrel" and to whom he attributes all manner of virtues: "mongrels are heroic"; they are "the source of innovation, daring and toleration"; they are "more creative" than others, they have "more perspective," they "are more willing to rebel against tradition," and they feel a kinship with "the shunned, the neglected, the overlooked, the underdog."
As it turns out, the natural home of this ultracreative, mixed-race rebel is the multinational corporation. Always looking for better ways of doing things, these giant concerns have become "hybrid hothouses," "champions of diversity." Zachary reels off example after example of prominent non-WASP executives and recounts scenes in which white-collar people from many different countries clash and cooperate for the greater good of profit. The heroism of the mongrel underdog, ironically, also helps affirm the power of the world's most powerful country. As the United States is the only land where such "hybridity" is found in great abundance, it has triumphed naturally over countries like Japan and Germany that have failed to fully embrace the "new gold standard." Rather than being a source of shame, race relations emerge here as America's single greatest virtue, the rationale for our domination of the world. As in much of the euphoric literature on the new economy, the American way is also said to be the inevitable way, with other nations warned to "Mongrelize or Die!"
Whatever one may think of such arguments, "The Global Me" is a book that deserves to be taken seriously. While management gurus rely on simple assertion to make their claims about corporate fondness for the little guy, Zachary approaches the subject with an enormous amount of research and firsthand reporting. He shows an impressive familiarity with academic postcolonial studies. He visits with members of forgotten ethnic groups in the former Soviet Union. He watches television with people in deepest Borneo. And the book has lofty implications, tacitly claiming for the new market world all of the glory and the righteousness associated with multiculturalism. The cosmopolitan corporation here becomes the rightful heir of the civil rights movement, the heir of the fight against imperialism, the final flower of the human search for justice.
But in order to make the picture turn out so nicely Zachary must make some rather curious moves. While it is refreshing to see a business journalist take an interest in the big theorists of postcolonial studies, the pro-market, pro-corporate, pro-American conclusions that Zachary draws from their work is perverse in the extreme. To put it mildly, postcolonial studies -- a field concerned with the subjugation of third-world peoples by the West -- does not generally regard capitalism as a benign force. Even more telling is Zachary's failure to discuss frankly the subject of social class, a topic that is omnipresent in most postcolonial studies. Certainly the first and most obvious way in which markets shape human identity is by dividing us into classes: management and labor, bosses and bossed. But while Zachary distinguishes between "rich nations" and "poor nations" and includes all sorts of anecdotes about plucky third-world migrants, his book is written almost exclusively from the perspective of management. Working-class people, even a Central American labor leader whose story Zachary tells, are described as bearers of this or that national consciousness, not a class-based one. Only ethnic differences go to make up "creativity"; other sorts of "divergent thinking" need not apply. So while Chineseness bounces off Irishness to yield dot-com magic, working classness evidently has no contribution to make at all.
As in most such books, though, class eventually finds its way back in. When discussing the working class of our own country, for example, Zachary sometimes falls back on the old "hard hat" stereotype: Whether black or white, workers are said to be cranky, backward doubters of management's newfound cosmopolitanism. And their rebellions are to be managed, not celebrated. Zachary even recounts a cautionary tale about a "monocultural" work force that got upset about something and walked out. Their employers then hired a replacement work force with a "diversity of views," which prevented them from getting together enough to act in such a disruptive manner.
Zachary has a lively style, and the appeal of his ideas to the market's true believers should be obvious in the context of recent controversies over free trade and the World Trade Organization. But is a maquiladora really an expression of compassion for the people who work in it? Or is all this corporate multiculturalism just an effort to pull a skein of rainbow legitimacy over a typically brutal episode of financial history? 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); MILLENNIUM (72%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (69%); SLAVERY (67%); 

PERSON: G PASCAL ZACHARY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2000



793 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: A Loss for Texas Students

BYLINE: By Polly Morrice; Polly Morrice writes frequently about education.

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
A few years ago I had a job teaching creative writing at a Houston elementary school. One day my best writer -- a quiet boy in fourth grade who produced astonishingly vivid, imaginative stories -- failed to appear in class. His classroom teacher told me his family, beset with financial problems, had moved yet again, perhaps to another motel room. And she sighed, "I was counting on him for my TAAS scores."
Seemingly insensitive, her comment merely pointed up what teachers, administrators and parents in Texas have long known: that results on the TAAS, or the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills test, are all important. As the presidential race grows tighter, this statewide standardized test, given yearly to public school children from third grade through high school, has achieved notoriety as well. A study released last week by the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit research group, claims that while Texas schoolchildren, particularly those from minority groups, have posted dramatic increases on their state test scores during George W. Bush's tenure as governor, their gains on a leading national exam have been less impressive. The rise in state scores, researchers speculated, might reflect the practice of "teaching to the test," that is, drilling children on questions typical of those on the exam. 
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Bush, who has campaigned on his education record, dismissed the RAND results as "dead wrong." Al Gore seized on the study gleefully, denouncing "illusory test scores that might elevate the reputations of politicians."
As a parent who has seen the state tests close up, I think the RAND researchers have a point. Several points, in fact. First, nobody here denies that schools prep children heavily for the exam. At my daughter's elementary school, a committee I served on briefly was supposed to review the curriculum. Its true purpose was to identify children at risk for failing the test and devise strategies for raising their scores. Why the children were having problems, and what else might be done to help them, weren't matters for discussion.
The RAND study also implies that an extremely narrow academic focus may squeeze out other learning experiences -- perhaps the kind that elevate children's scores on national tests. At a well-regarded middle school, parents complained bitterly after teachers gathered up textbooks and proceeded to drill students on the state tests for weeks. Preparation included quizzing children on how to approach each question -- one step was "take a deep breath."
Finally, the RAND report raises questions about what a "passing" score on the state test actually means. The state defines passing as "meeting minimal expectations." The word "minimal" may well explain why, in my district, some schools have apparently contradictory results: a high percentage of their students pass the state test while these same students score below average on the Stanford achievement tests, exams used nationwide.
Unlike Al Gore, though, I'm not ready to declare that Texas schools aren't making progress. RAND itself released a study in July claiming that Texas students rank high nationally, especially in math. Could it be that relying on a single study, like relying on a single standardized test, doesn't give a complete picture of children's educational achievement?
As it is, an excessive dependence on standardized tests -- summed up in the catch phrase "accountability" -- could undermine the concept of local control of the schools, a sacred tenet of both candidates in this race. When much of a school's curriculum and many of its activities are determined by a statewide, uniform test, who's actually in control? Not the principal, teachers or parents, but the government, whether in Washington or Austin, that decreed the test in the first place.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Angus McWilton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP RAND CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; TESTS AND TESTING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; MINORITIES (US) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CREATIVE WRITING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); POLITICS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MORRICE, POLLY GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



794 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Bricks-and-Clicks World Needs Commercial Space

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Unlike most retailers, the Kohl's Corporation, the fast-growing department store chain, is not yet selling anything on the Web, though it intends to. The bottleneck is not in bandwidth or server capacity -- the warehouse simply isn't ready yet.
Kohl's is building a distribution center in Monroe, Ohio. It will be 525,000 square feet -- nearly 12 acres, or almost as big as nine football fields -- and expandable to twice that size. And it will have fancy equipment that can find, pack and ship an item within hours after an order comes in. 
 Only after that warehouse is running, probably early next year, will Kohl's plunge into the waters of Web retailing. Kohl's will not start any Web initiative until it has all but eliminated the risk of fulfillment problems, said Susan Henderson, a Kohl's spokeswoman.
A paradox is emerging in the retail world. As the bricks-and-mortar retailers continue their inexorable march toward the virtual store, they are discovering that selling on the Web requires a lot more bricks and mortar.
They learned the lessons of last year, when many retailers were so overwhelmed with holiday orders that they ran out of stock. Now they are scurrying to put their operations in synchronization with their Web sales to try to make sure such shortfalls never happen again.
"Retailers who dealt with Web sales on a strategic level are finally paying attention to tactics," said Mark Borsuk, a retail real estate consultant in San Francisco.
Some, like Gap, Nordstrom and Kohl's, are putting up new buildings to meet delivery needs. Others, like Home Depot, are making their stores do double duty as warehouses and distribution hubs. And many, including Kmart and Wal-Mart, have farmed out the whole process -- at least temporarily -- to so-called fulfillment houses like Fingerhut, Exel and Submitorder.com, which store and deliver merchandise for retailers.
In their own ways, the retailers are all tackling common problems. Old distribution centers, built to ship pallets loaded with the same items to a finite number of stores, are ill-equipped to send small assortments of items to an infinite number of dispersed customers. In many cases, the people on the phones at their customer call centers are not trained to communicate by e-mail or instant messaging.
Even warehouses geared to filling catalog orders are often too small or too reliant on antiquated order-handling methods to process orders in the nanoseconds of Internet time.
"Internet customers place an order, then run to the door to see if the U.P.S. truck is there yet," said Elaine Rubin, the chairwoman of Shop.org, a trade association for retailers selling on-line.
In one sense, the retailers are shooting in the dark. Web selling is still too new for them to accurately gauge what items will be in demand, and from where. Research shows that, for now, shoppers most often use retail Web sites to research products, but then take their shopping lists to the store.
Still, those habits could change, as consumers grow more comfortable with the Web, and as issues of security and delivery are ironed out. Jupiter Research predicts that e-tail sales will reach $9 billion for November and December alone.
Uncertain how much warehouse space they may need in coming months, many retailers are erring on the generous side. The result has been a boom in industrial real estate.
"In centrally located areas, the demand for industrial space far exceeds supply," said Jack Fraker, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield.
Indeed, brokers who find tenants for distribution centers, particularly places like Memphis, where Federal Express maintains a hub, and Columbus, Ohio, which is less than a day's truck ride from many other urban areas, say they are getting top dollar for their properties.
James L. Dieter, director of Insignia's United States industrial group, is currently marketing a fairly new 750,000-square-foot, fully automated distribution center near the Baltimore airport. Judging by the calls he is getting from retailers, he predicts the facility will rent out in less than six months, at $17 a square foot.
"Without the press of e-tailing, it would probably take a year to find a tenant, and I'd probably get 25 percent less in rent," Mr. Dieter said.
Investors, too, are noticing industrial property's new popularity. The AMB Property Corporation, a real estate investment trust, once had $1 billion invested in shopping malls. But it now believes that Web sales will grow faster than store sales. It took most of that money out of malls this year and has invested twice that amount in warehouses -- existing and under construction -- near Los Angeles, New York and other densely populated areas.
"We've bet close to $2 billion that retailers will want warehouses near their customers," said Hamid R. Moghadam, AMB's chairman.
Actually, many of the companies snapping up warehouses are not retailers at all, but companies set up to serve them.
"It doesn't make sense for retailers to commit their own capital until they are sure that Web sales work for them," said Bruce Edwards, who runs American retail operations for Exel. The company, based in London, has long used its 37 million square feet of warehouse space in the United States to house and distribute large items for retailers and is now chasing the Web fulfillment business.
New fulfillment companies crop up each day. Submitorder.com, for example, started last year purely to provide facilities for e-commerce. It runs a 700,000-square-foot distribution center in Memphis and two smaller ones near Columbus.
Submitorder.com has a dozen or so clients, including Museum Store, Zany Brainy and Bluelight.com. The company holds inventory for its clients, fills their orders, operates their call-in and e-mail centers, and helps consumers track the status of orders. Submitorder's fees are partly based on how much warehouse space its clients use -- an inducement to keep clients from insisting that slow-moving items stay in stock.
"An order gets into our system, and it's picked, packed and ready to ship in seven minutes," said Dennis Spina, Submitorder .com's chief executive. "But we make money on inventory turns, and if you sell one canoe, say, a year, it makes no sense to keep it in our expensive automated warehouse."
Many retailers, anxious to start their Web sales rolling, are willing to play by those rules. In January, Kmart teamed up with Yahoo and Martha Stewart Living to start Bluelight.com, which handles Kmart's online sales. Why farm out fulfillment?
"It takes 9 to 12 months to bring a new warehouse to full utilization, and it'll take longer than that to know what items our Web customers will buy," said Alex McNealey, Bluelight.com's director of operations.
Still, for many retailers, letting outsiders handle their customers requires too great a leap of faith.
Until recently, Gap filled Web orders from a 270,000-square-foot warehouse in central Ohio. But that warehouse can no longer accommodate the growth in Web sales generally, let alone the orders for items like large pants and maternity clothes that the Gap sells only online.
Gap just leased a 424,000-square-foot warehouse near the old one and is building one nearly twice that size nearby.
"If we do it ourselves, we know that our customers are not in line behind some other retailer's customers, waiting to be served," said Kellie Leonard, a Gap spokeswoman.
A small handful of retailers have figured out how to let their stores handle the distribution problem.
Home Depot, a relative latecomer to e-tailing, has just begun Web sales to do-it-yourselfers and construction professionals. For now, its Web site will only accept orders from people with zip codes near Las Vegas -- a market growing so fast that Home Depot has hired a lot of new people who can lend a hand with the Web operation. Web customers can choose whether to pick up goods at the stores or have them delivered.
Home Depot, which has well over 1,000 stores and opens a new one every two days, expects to roll its Web-sales program out nationally by next year. Web customers will only be able to order items that are stocked in their local stores, and their orders will be filled from those stores.
"Our customers really want the Internet to be a version of their store, online," said Ron Griffin, Home Depot's chief information officer.
Some retail die-hards, meanwhile, are insisting that their catalog centers can accommodate Web sales.
J. C. Penney handles all Internet customer service in one center, where it employs people who are particularly good at written communication. But Dennis Radabaugh, director of logistics, says the company's five catalog fulfillment centers had enough capacity to absorb the Web orders easily.
"There really isn't a need to differentiate between a phoned-in order or an Internet order," he said.
Similarly, Eddie Bauer has plenty of space in its 1.5 million-square-foot catalog fulfillment center to fill Web orders. Customers can pay extra to have orders delivered in 24 hours; few enough do so that their requests are not overburdening the system.
"Internet customers are even more sensitive to delivery price than they are to delivery speed," said Mark Staudinger, vice president for interactive media.
So far, Container Store, a 21-store chain that sells home storage products, distributes items to its stores, catalog customers and Web customers from one center in Dallas. "Our customers have never insisted on unreasonably fast delivery," said Kip Tindell, the company's president.
But with Internet sales picking up, Container Store is running out of space and is renting a second all-purpose center a few blocks away. Plans are to eliminate both in a few years and move all the stock into an 800,000-square-foot facility it is now building.
"We were growing anyway," Mr. Tindell said, "but Internet sales were the straw that broke the camel's back."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Painters apply the last coat to the Gap's new distribution center in Groveport, Ohio. Its new building is nearly twice the size of a 424,000-square-foot warehouse it has leased to fill orders on the Internet. (Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times)(pg. C5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KSS (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: KOHL'S CORP (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); OHIO, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STORAGE; DELIVERY SERVICES RETAILERS (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); ORDER FULFILLMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); NETWORK SERVERS (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CALL CENTERS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



795 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
Airborne and grass roots. By popular acclaim, a wireless format with a name only a geek could love is taking hold.

BYLINE: By John Markoff 

 BODY:
AT the recent Agenda 2001 computer conference in Phoenix earlier this month, there was validation and a touch of irony for the conference organizer, Robert Metcalfe, co-inventor of the Ethernet office networking standard.
Hundreds of those attending the conference sat in a huge auditorium with their portable computers wirelessly linked to the Internet via tiny PC cards plugged in to their machines. 
 It was tacit validation of a theorem Mr. Metcalfe set forth years ago, now widely known as Metcalfe's Law, which states that "the usefulness, or utility, of a network equals the square of the number of users."
The irony, of course, was that while many of the conference participants were using a technology that essentially provides wireless connections at Ethernet speeds, they were using it to read their e-mail and surf the Web rather than pay much attention to Mr. Metcalfe's conference.
There is no doubt, however, that "wireless Ethernet"-- formally known as the 802.11b wireless technical standard as specified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers -- is finally taking off.
The Ethernet standard for wiring computers into local networks caught on two decades ago because it was "open" -- owned by no single company and available for many to adopt and improve. Those same characteristics could propel wireless Ethernet as embodied in the 802.11b standard, which allows data to be transmitted at 11 megabits -- 11 million bits a second.
The 802.11b format is catching on so quickly that it is displacing alternative wireless competitors that include Bluetooth and HomeRF. The cost of 802.11b technology continues to plummet; chip sets that cost as little as $10 or less may arrive in the next two years. So it should become cheaper and easier to set up an office network wirelessly than with traditional Ethernet wires.
To be sure, there are some clouds ahead. The 802.11b wireless transmitters operate on the 2.4 gigahertz radio band, which does not require a license to use. Some technical experts worry that this band may soon grow so congested that it will create the world's first wireless data gridlock.
The standard, first popularized by Apple Computer in its Airport line of wireless products last year, is now being embraced so quickly that it is touching off a wireless "air rush" as start-up companies and telecommunication vendors vie to lock up valuable sites at airports, hotels and other public hot spots. Such companies operate the Internet server computers by which wireless users actually connect to the global network.
The appearance of the wireless standard in public spaces is following on the heels of installations on university campuses and corporate office parks. And some community 802.11b wireless networks have been set up, including SFlan in San Francisco.
As part of SFlan, some Internet hobbyists have set up inexpensive 802.11b networks on their rooftops and are distributing Internet service throughout their neighborhoods. One user, Tim Pozar, said his local network reached a half-mile radius around his home.
Brewster Kahle, a computer network expert who has led the SFlan project, said, "It's possible that a grass-roots broadband network could be built organically."
But for now, commercial efforts seem to be gathering steam most quickly. There have been a series of announcements in recent weeks by wireless companies including Aerzone , Mobilstar and Wayport, that have struck deals with airports and hotels to install 802.11b.
Just last Friday, United Airlines said it was teaming with Aerzone, a San Francisco-based subsidiary of Softnet Systems, to deploy 802.11b in Red Carpet Club airport lounges, gate areas and terminals in as many as 50 airports served by the airline.
"This is potentially a huge business because we offer the two things people want most: relatively unlimited bandwidth and mobility," said Lawrence B. Brilliant, chief executive of Aerzone.
Just two days earlier Wayport, based in Austin, Tex., announced it was installing 802.11b in the lobbies of 15 hotels in the Los Angeles area. Wayport has already started its service at the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport and the Austin Bergstrom airport.
And while so far Apple and I.B.M. are the only two computer makers to offer portable systems with built-in 802.11b capability, by early next year the standard is expected to become a common built-in feature on all makes of portable computers.
Meanwhile, a number of sports stadium deals have been announced and several of the wireless start-up companies say they have been in talks with Starbucks to offer wireless Internet service in the company's nationwide chain of coffee shops.
Indeed the possibility of Starbucks's encouraging customers to spend time sipping coffee in its stores while they read their e-mail has created a new technology buzz-phrase: the "high-loiter retail" marketplace, in the words of Brett Stewart, Wayport's president and founder.
The wireless networks based on 802.11b are also becoming popular as a convenient and low-cost way to create a network within homes already connected to the Internet through D.S.L. or cable modems.
All this activity raises the possibility that 802.11b might upset the plans of some of the big telecommunications giants that are planning to spend millions of dollars building third-generation data and voice cellular networks. If millions of computer users and companies effectively build their own high-speed data network from the ground up, the telecommunications carriers might think twice about putting money into third-generation systems.
The 802.11b standards offer far greater speed than the proposed third-generation network standards, which generally offer two megabits that must be shared by all the users of a single cell. And the industry is finishing a standard called 802.11a, which will allow even higher speed -- 54 megabits a second -- on the 5 gigahertz radio band.
In fact, a top Microsoft executive, Craig Mundie, said his company was trying to rally the computer and telecommunications industries to agree upon that standard for the future of wireless data networking.
If the largely spontaneous 802.11 wave does swamp the various other wireless data networking standards, it might be fitting. After all, it was as an anarchic self-assembling world of isolated networks that the Internet originally came into being.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER AND COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (69%); INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (91%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); DATA TRANSMISSION (76%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); STARTUPS (50%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN ROBERT METCALFE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



796 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: A State Grant Could Help Save Graham Studio

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
The ailing Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance, which closed its Manhattan school in May for lack of funds, is poised to reopen in temporary quarters as soon as January with a fresh infusion of private contributions and a promise of a $750,000 capital grant from the state senator from its home district.
The state contribution comes with strings; the dance center cannot get the money unless it raises $750,000 in private donations for operating expenses, said the state senator, Roy Goodman, Republican of Manhattan, who is the chairman of the special committee on the arts and cultural affairs and who made the grant from a state capital fund reserved for the arts, transit, biotechnology and economic development. 
 The money is intended to help the modern dance company survive a "cultural emergency," said Mr. Goodman. He is involved in a tough re-election battle against Liz Krueger, a Democrat and political newcomer who has for several years run the Community Food Resource Center, a nonprofit organization that helps provide food to city residents.
Mr. Goodman said the timing of the grant had nothing to do with his campaign. He noted that in previous years he had steered such funds to other prominent New York arts institutions.
Because of an legal battle between different factions associated with Graham's legacy, it is unclear whether, even with the money, the center will be able to teach Graham's method and dances.
"It's my understanding," Senator Goodman said, "that the works of Martha Graham have a limited shelf life and if allowed to moulder for any length of time, we could lose her works. There is some urgency to getting this done."
Earlier this year the Graham center's board temporarily suspended operations of the 500-student school, the company and its junior troupe because of its financial turmoil. The trustees were also caught in a bitter feud with Ron Protas, Martha Graham's heir and the company's former artistic director, who was fired earlier this year.
Mr. Protas controls the rights to the dances, and his lawyer is involved in thorny discussions with the board's lawyers about whether the center's dancers can perform and teach Graham's works.
Francis Mason, the chairman of the Martha Graham board, said the state's grant money would pay for the remodeling of studio space in a new building that was built on the site of the center's old headquarters on East 63rd Street. The center sold the site in 1998 to pay off a deficit of $2.4 million, which left it with no major assets.
While the construction takes place, the center intends to resume classes in January in temporary studios, Mr. Mason said. It is not clear what will be taught there because of the negotiations with Mr. Protas's lawyer about rights to the dances.
Dale Cendali, a lawyer representing the Graham board in the talks, said that the office of the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, had been trying to mediate the dispute, although no talks are currently scheduled.
"We want to move forward with the organization and not lose a generation of dancers," she said. "At the same time we're trying to give the discussion a process to work itself out. We have a lot of flexibility in terms of what exactly could be taught."
Efforts to reach Mr. Protas or Michael Quinn, his lawyer, were unsuccessful.
The board of the Graham center expects that the school could move into its permanent quarters as early as June. It plans to start paying its rent to the new building's owner next month, said Mr. Mason, who noted that the board had also hired a new architect to shape its plans.
"This is the first step forward that we have been able to take since closing down temporarily in May," said Mr. Mason, who added that he was confident now that with the state grant, other support would follow. In the months since the closing of the school, he said, board members have personally raised about $750,000 toward the new school.
"The foundation community is very interested in our returning to where we were," he said. "This grant is extraordinary and the board is tremendously pleased."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A class last year at the Martha Graham company's studio. The company hopes to resume activities. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GRAHAM, MARTHA, CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY DANCE MARTHA GRAHAM CENTER (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAHAM, MARTHA, CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY DANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PHILANTHROPY; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS DANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); DANCERS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN; GOODMAN, ROY M (SEN); PROTAS, RON MARTHA GRAHAM (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



797 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Magazines Mining Web For Readers

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, Bermuda

 BODY:
Robert W. Pittman, the president of America Online, caused a frisson at the conference here run by the Magazine Publishers of America when he announced that in the last five months, AOL had sold 500,000 subscriptions to Time Inc. magazines.
To an audience of magazine executives who privately spoke of their willingness to crawl on their naked bellies through the Gobi desert for a dozen paid subscribers, the news came like a long frosty drink of Evian. Relief -- magazine subscribers via the Internet! 500,000 of them! Manna from heaven! -- was in sight. 
 But Mr. Pittman's figures beg a compelling set of questions for the magazine industry; especially as it scrambles for new ways to bolster circulation levels in the face of declining newsstand sales, an expected increase in periodical postal rates and the collapse of the sweepstakes houses, which alone has removed millions of potential subscribers from publishers' pockets.
Among the questions are: Will subscriptions gained online be as reliable as those obtained through traditional methods? Is there a possible liability in the vogue on the Internet for signing up so-called "evergreen" subscriptions? Those are are renewed automatically on credit cards unless consumers specifically ask for them to be stopped.
And as far as Time Inc.'s parent, Time Warner, and America Online go, can the two prospective merger partners work together? Are each other's best interests -- if only as far as promoting Time Inc. magazines like Money, In Style and Sports Illustrated is concerned -- economically compatible? And, if they are, will competitors be crushed?
A closer look at Mr. Pittman's 500,000 figure is revealing. While it sounds large, many of the subscriptions are not yet paid for. They were offered in pop-up boxes on America Online -- some of the most valued commercial real estate on the AOL sites -- on a free-trial basis. That means consumers get several issues of a magazine -- sometimes months' worth -- with the option of canceling before they are even charged.
No one knows how many of those subscribers will pay up, much less keep coming back. In other words, whether or not, in the jargon of the Internet, they are "sticky."
The Internet tends to be a free-wheeling world, where it is easier, more tempting and possibly just more fun to order something with the click of a mouse than by filling out a form and walking to the mailbox. That may bring more subscribers, but it also brings fast-fingered consumers who might experience something of an Internet-shopping hangover, and who might later change their minds more readily about what they ordered.
Of Mr. Pittman's number, Jeremy Koch, the senior vice-president for consumer marketing at Time Inc., said: "This figure does not necessarily mean 500,000 subscriptions. It means 500,000 gross starts."
Of those "gross starts," 95 percent were put on credit cards. And 50 percent of those are the "evergreen," also called "negative option," subscriptions. That is different from the usual arrangement in which magazine publishers contact their customers near the end of their subscription terms and beg them to renew. The evergreens are increasingly being used for subscriptions collected on the Web, executives at several companies said.
That kind of arrangement is already raising concerns in an area of the magazine industry that is highly sensitive to controversy. Two of the industry's most profitable long-term subscription campaigns, the sweepstakes run by American Family Publishers and Publishers Clearing House, have collapsed in the last year after their tactics finally angered consumers to the point that they prompted lawsuits by the attorneys general of several states.
(At Gruner & Jahr, for example, 2.5 million subscriptions came in for magazines off those so-called stampsheets last year, said the company's chief executive, Daniel B. Brewster Jr., at the conference, but only 200,000 this year. Next year, he said, he expects almost none.)
Mr. Koch also said that his division at Time Inc. was specifically monitoring consumer reactions to evergreen subscriptions.
"We are trying to be very careful about continuous service," he said. "We need to be very careful about doing all the things that remind them of the deal so that when their credit card is charged, they do not feel we are pulling a fast one."
Mr. Koch said that AOL's gathering of Time Inc. subscriptions was is still just a test. At its heart is whether AOL will find it profitable to use such coveted commercial real estate for offers for magazine subscriptions, he said.
"I think AOL has in the spirit of this agreement thrown itself behind this effort, without worrying too much about the lost cost of other things they might be promoting," Mr. Koch said. "So this is a sort of assessment stage we are in right now, where both sides need to look at whether what we are doing is good for the other party. Do we make more money by cross-promoting this way or is there an opportunity cost that is not good for the company?"
No one will talk about the exact terms of the arrangement but it is believed that Time Inc. is being cut a break. As part of the deal, Time Inc. distributes new AOL 6.0 installation disks with several Time Inc. magazines and in arrangement with some retail outlets.
Mr. Koch said he would characterize the promotion so far as "a promising experiment in cross-selling that hopefully we can build into something bigger."
If it does get bigger, that will only further alarm executives at other magazine companies, who say that Time Inc. has an enormous advantage in attracting AOL's consumer eyeballs. "There has never been a greater opportunity in the history of consumer magazines for marketing subscriptions than with Time Inc. and AOL," said Chip Block, the publishing strategist at Ziff-Davis Publishing.
Others suggested there might be pitfalls. Stephen Sutton, the executive director of consumer marketing at Ziff-Davis Publishing, said that if less than 50 percent of subscribers did not fulfill their payments, then Time Inc. risked sending out millions of free issues to people who never intended to pay their bills, or "bad-pay copies." And he also raised the question of AOL's long-term plans.
"It seems to me that this is a big question for AOL in terms of the resources devoted to the subscription offers," he said. "Do they want to use that space to promote magazine subscriptions?"
Ziff-Davis has been soliciting subscriptions off of the Internet since 1996, Mr. Sutton said, when subscriptions to the company's Yahoo! Internet Life magazine were first offered on the Yahoo Web site. Since 1996, 2 million subscriptions have come in to the magazine through Yahoo, he said. (Mr. Sutton said that now most of the subscriptions sold on Yahoo were evergreen; the company began by selling traditional subscriptions.)
Virtually every large magazine company is beginning to think about its Internet subscription strategy.
While some are reaping real circulation benefits, others are just beginning to dip in their toes.
Among the more successful ones are Dennis Publishing, which gets 15,000 subscriptions for Maxim magazine via Maximonline.com every month, said Stephen Colvin, the company's president. Hearst Magazines has in the last four months logged over 230,000 subscriptions to O: The Oprah Magazine off of Oprah.com, according to a Hearst spokeswoman -- which means that roughly one in five subscribers came in off the Internet.
For now, the magic number -- despite its caveats -- is 500,000. Magazine publishers who do not have tentative mergers planned with online giants are feeling a little, well, envious, despite themselves.
"I am not an envious person usually," Mr. Block of Ziff-Davis said. "And right now, I am."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A pop-up advertisement for Time magazine, as seen on AOL's site.; Robert W. Pittman, the president of America Online. (Reuters)(pg. C16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GOBI DESERT (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC; TIME INC TIME INC (95%); AOL INC (84%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC; TIME INC MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GOBI DESERT (72%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); SWEEPSTAKES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); POSTAL RATES (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



798 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times in the Hatchery;
After Dot-Com Flameout, 'Incubator' Is a Despised Word

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
Call them instigators. Or catalysts or accelerators. Just please don't call a company that hatches Internet companies an "incubator" anymore.
Now that the fiery crash of Internet stocks has many investors cursing dot-coms as the devil's spawn, the investment companies that hatch dot-coms consider incubator a tainted term. 
 "It's like if your name was Monica before the Clinton scandal, it was fine; but it's not now," said Bill Gross, chairman and chief executive of Idealab, a Pasadena, Calif., company that was the first and best-known, um, I-word.
Mr. Gross knows the ignominy. Twelve days ago, tired and dragged down by a cold, he canceled a much-anticipated initial public stock offering for Idealab, warning that tough times were ahead. Two days later, Eve.com, one of the largest beauty sites on the Web and a company that Idealab had fostered, said it was shuttering its doors and laying off most of its 164 employees. And last week, Scout Electromedia, another company Idealab invested in, went out of business.
For an entire segment of the technology-financing industry, Idealab's string of bad news has been a chilling sign of the times. If Mr. Gross is losing faith in the incubator approach these days, who else might hope to make it work?
"It's pretty clear by pulling the offering they admitted what everyone knew all along," said David Dusenbury, a research analyst in Credit Suisse First Boston's technology group. "There is no market for incubators right now."
It was five years ago that Mr. Gross, already wealthy from the sale of his software company Knowledge Adventure, conceived and executed the idea of a technology incubator. The notion was to offer shelter and succor for new Internet-related businesses intent on getting quickly to market. By providing office space and administrative support, marketing and public relations in return for an equity stake in each of its wards, Idealab was offering much more than venture capital firms -- which typically dispense only money and advice.
Mr. Gross's concept was widely imitated as other entrepreneurs and financiers watched fledglings like CitySearch (which later merged with Ticketmaster Online) emerge from the Idealab hatchery and show signs of taking flight. In 1999, when Idealab spinoffs produced some of the year's hottest stock offerings, like the e-tailer eToys and the Web search company GoTo.com, Mr. Gross seemed to be sitting on a nest of golden eggs.
Now, though, with the stocks of eToys and GoTo.com trading at a fraction of last year's highs, the business model that Mr. Gross cultivated is being called into question. Within two days of Idealab's Oct. 18 announcement, Garage.com, which provides financing and other services for high-technology start-ups, announced that it, too, would delay its initial stock offering.
And publicly traded investment companies like CMGI and the Internet Capital Group, which have managed and nurtured Internet start-ups but bristle at the I-word, have seen their own stock prices plummet. CMGI's shares, which touched a high of $164.75 in January, closed on Friday at $16.75. Internet Capital, which traded at $212 last December, ended last week at $12.
CMGI's chairman, David Wetherell, is as insistent that his company will ride out the current turbulence as he is adamant that CMGI is not and never has been an incubator. It is, according to the Web site, a "leading global Internet operating and development company."
"There is a method to our madness," Mr. Wetherell said. "There aren't a lot of incubators with $1.5 billion in revenue."
In any case, whatever they may be called, there are now some 400 companies, all pursuing a business similar in many ways to Mr. Gross's Idealab. And some analysts and academics are predicting that within a year, fully half these companies will be out of business.
"The success of Idealab portfolio companies was noteworthy but was not proof that the incubator model works," said Dave Witherow, chief executive of Venture One Economics in San Francisco, which tracks the venture capital industry. "It proves the challenges and suggests that the model itself is not so simple."
But like many of his peers, Mr. Gross contends that there is nothing wrong with the business plan. Idealab has spun off 55 companies over the years, company executives said. About 50 are still in business, while the rest have failed. It is currently incubating 12 companies and will continue to create new ones.
"It's a mistake to read too much over all into this," Mr. Gross said of the recent gloomy announcements. Investors are now focused on profitability, he said, and any layoffs at the companies Idealab backs are simply a reflection of that concern. Besides, he added, Idealab spends only about $72 million a year and recently raised $1 billion in a round of financing.
"I need to show people I can create value in bad times," he said. "When people see what we can do, then they will come back."
Of the $1 billion raised, two-thirds has already been spent, said Howard Lee Morgan, Idealab's vice chairman. Much of that money went toward buying larger stakes in companies in which Idealab has already invested, but needed to increase ownership so it could retain control, including CarsDirect.com. As for the remaining $300 million or so, "we have enough money for the next two to three years," Mr. Morgan said.
According to Morten T. Hansen, an assistant professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, the median first round of financing for a start-up at an incubator is $690,000. But that does not take into account the additional money burned if a company has to stay under incubation longer than planned (say, for a third or fourth round of financing) or if jittery investors demand that an incubator commit money of its own as a show of confidence.
"You can go through money quickly," Mr. Hansen said. "For the average incubator, that is expensive depending on how many ideas fail."
In the old, time-honored approach to starting a business, start-up expenses used to be paid for by the entrepreneur (remember all those stories about plucky young companies financed on the founder's credit card?), or by a venture capitalist.
But after the notion of "Internet time" caught on and made the old evolutionary approach to entrepreneurship seem as quaint as carbon paper and Dictaphones, incubators popped up as the sort of place where entrepreneurs could hatch their embryonic ideas while getting instant access to technical experts, marketing strategists and executive recruiters until their businesses matured and could thrive on their own.
Of course, none of this came free.
Generally, like some venture capitalists, incubators command a 25 percent to 40 percent stake in a company, according to a study conducted by Mr. Hansen and his colleagues. And many of the incubators in the study required a fee along with an equity stake. Idealab, for its part, generates most of its own ideas so it is able to keep a larger equity stake than in cases where an entrepreneur brings an idea to the incubator.
Innovative as the concept might have been in the early going, Mr. Hansen said that by now more than 8 of 10 incubators are providing the same basic services, like public relations and accounting. "It is a commodity," he said.
Of the 400 or so incubators in existence today, he said, at least half have never hatched a company and will probably fail in the next 12 months. "They have no viability," he said, citing inexperience as a widespread problem.
Another criticism voiced by several analysts is that some incubators that were formed more recently have focused too much on the Internet fashion of the moment. Often mentioned in this regard is the Internet Capital Group, which specializes in the business-to-business e-commerce market. As that sector has fallen out of favor, so have the companies that Internet Capital invested in -- like Breakaway Solutions, a provider of e-business products, and Onvia.com, a marketplace to help small businesses buy and sell services and products. Shares in both companies have tumbled more than 90 percent since reaching 52-week highs. And Internet Capital has also suffered from the collapse of its own share price, making it difficult to use its stock as currency for acquisitions.
"The size of the opportunity hasn't decreased," said Ken Fox, co-founder of Internet Capital. "But building companies is hard, and the Internet didn't make it any easier."
In Idealab's case, it may have focused too much on Internet companies aiming their products or services at the consumer market.
Idealab's portfolio of companies lets you buy almost anything on the Web -- from pet products and cookware to bridal wear and cosmetics. But analysts say the failure of the beauty site Eve.com, which had almost all the makings of a winner -- lots of traffic, $1 million in monthly sales and name recognition, but no profit -- could foreshadow doom for the rest.
"We crushed everyone in the market and it wasn't enough," Mr. Gross said. He said that in the future, Idealab would not limit the types of companies it would create or invest in.
Mr. Hansen of Harvard contends that perhaps the most valuable service incubators can provide start-ups is access to a network of business relationships with more established companies. Some incubators already do that, he said, pointing to Hotbank, a Mountain View, Calif., company managed by Softbank Venture Capital, an affiliate of the big Japanese investment company Softbank.
Hotbank gives entrepreneurs access not only to the usual incubator services, he said, but also to Softbank's roster of partners, including Yahoo and Cisco Systems. But only about one in four incubators are able to provide this kind of relationship network, Mr. Hansen said.
In various ways, some incubators have begun to adapt to the new, less hospitable financial climate. Ecompanies, an incubator set up last year by Sky Dayton, founder of Earthlink, and Jake Winebaum, the former chairman of Disney's Internet unit, had trouble last summer raising a new round of financing. So it has formed a partnership with Sprint to develop wireless communications ideas. And last month, Ecompanies sold a stake in itself to Evercore Partners, a long-established, New York-based investment bank that was an adviser in the Viacom-CBS merger and has traditionally put money in old-economy ventures.
In the meantime, Mr. Wetherell's company, CMGI, has put the brakes on acquisitions and is concentrating on consolidating what it already owns. In the last few years, CMGI has acquired 34 companies and started eight others, Mr. Wetherell said. But by next July, he intends to whittle those holdings down to 15 companies.
Idealab's Mr. Gross acknowledges that he has learned hard lessons these last few months. "We've become very self-reflective," he said. "Maybe it was hubris to think it was easy."
He said Idealab would no longer acquire other companies, a strategy he said had not paid off for his company anyway. But it is conceivable that, if he regains investor confidence, Mr. Gross would consider trying to take Idealab public again though he would probably not call it an incubator.
"I believe I can take an 'idea generator' public," he said. "Just not in this market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The warehouse near Los Angeles of Sameday.com, a product distributor nurtured by Idealab, a so-called Internet incubator. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Bill Gross, chief of Idealab, has canceled an initial stock offering. (pg. C8)
 
Graph: "Fall From Grace"
The crash of Internet stocks has been especially severe for stocks of incubators - companies that nurture Internet start-ups.
 
Graph tracks CSFB Technology Holding Company index, Nasdaq Composite and Dow Industrials since Oct., 1999.
(Source: Credit Suisse First Boston)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Good Eggs, Bad Eggs"
Idealab, an Internet incubator - a company that invests in and nurtures Internet start-ups - has had some successes and failures. Here is a sampling of its companies.
 
STILL INCUBATING
Companies that are still privately held.
 
CarsDirect.com -- Research, sales and financing for new cars, and related services.
HomesDirect.com -- Auction site for houses.
ice.com -- Jewelry retailer.
Petsmart.com -- Products and information for pet owners.
WeddingChannel.com -- Wedding services, including bridal registry.
 
HATCHED
Companies that are public.
I.P.O.; stock change from I.P.O.
 
eToys -- Toy retailer.
May '99; -80.8%
GoTo.com -- Search engine.
June '99; -17.5%
NetZero -- Internet service provider.
Sept. '99; -89.3%
Ticketmaster Online-CitySearch -- City guides to local events and services.
Dec. '98; +9.8%
Tickets.com -- Sales of entertainment, sports and travel tickets.
Nov. '99; -92.0%
 
BROKEN
Companies that have either announced layoffs or shuttered their doors in recent weeks.
 
Eve.com -- A large beauty and cosmetics site shut down, laying off most of its 164 employees, citing lack of profitability.
Scout Electromedia The maker of Mod, a $99 device that the company hoped would become a city guide, shut its doors, citing insufficient funds.
FirstLook.com -- A Web marketing network laid off 34 of its 103 employees. A company spokeswoman said it had shifted its strategy from the business-to-consumer market to the business-to-business market.
Z.com -- An entertainment site, which had prominent Hollywood investors, said it would lay off half its staff of 100.
 
(Source: Idealab)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IDEALAB CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IDEALAB

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS INTERNET & WWW (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (84%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STARTUPS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); RETAILERS (63%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M BILL GROSS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



799 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

P.& G. Plays Role in Merger Between Minority Suppliers
Procter and Gamble is expected to announce today that it helped orchestrate the merger of two minority-owned companies from which it buys supplies and awarded a $100 million contract to them for going through with the deal.
Procter brought together Film Fabricators and Johnson-Bryce, two packaging companies in the South, assuring them a three-year $100 million contract to wrap Pampers diapers if they merged. It also promised to link them with other corporate customers. Page C6. 

3 Officers of Pilots' Union Resign
The top three officers of the union representing American Airlines pilots have resigned, one month after members rejected a one-year contract extension. C6.
 
Copyright Office Backs Digital Law
The United States Copyright Office has endorsed a new federal law making it illegal to break the technological safeguards for books, movies and music that are distributed digitally, a decision that gives copyright holders greater control over the way people use such works. This year, a federal judge found that the Web site of 2600 magazine, whose publisher is Eric Corley, had violated the law by distributing a program designed to break the security code on DVD's so that they could be played on computers running the Linux software operating system. But when the judge issued the ruling, the law did not prohibit the actual use of such a device by individuals because of the pending review by the copyright office. C16.
 
Jennings's New Book Stays at Home
Peter Jennings of ABC is moonlighting again as an author, following up the best-selling book "The Century" with "America," both co-written with Todd Brewster. But this time ABC's parent, Walt Disney, is keeping the book at its Hyperion publishing division, to the envy of Mr. Jennings's previous publisher, the Doubleday imprint of Random House, which said it never had a chance to bid on the book. C16.
 
Union Leaders Approve Actors' Pact
Representatives of television and radio commercial actors voted over the weekend to go back to work, ending a six-month strike against advertisers that was the longest talent walkout in Hollywood history. C10.
 
Web Merchants Make Good on Hype
With every roll-out of a Web store in 1998 and 1999 came declarations that the shop in question would revolutionize the buying experience by making it so much easier than shopping the traditional way. The truth, of course, is that it was too seldom truly easy, and the revolution has been slow to arrive. It is a paradox then that industry survivors are actually starting to deliver on the promise of easy shopping. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C14.
 
A Wireless Format Is Taking Hold
Two decades ago, the Ethernet standard for wiring computers into local networks caught on because it was "open" -- owned by no single company and available for many to adopt and improve. Those same characteristics could propel "wireless Ethernet," formally known as the 802.11b wireless technical standard. The format is catching on so quickly that it could upset the plans of some of the big telecommunications giants that are planning to spend millions of dollars building third-generation cellular networks. New Economy. C5.
 
Gateway Turns to Filmmaker for Ads
For the second time in two years, Gateway is turning to a documentary filmmaker for commercials rather than to its giant Madison Avenue agency. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C18.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 10,590.62 up 364.03
Nasdaq composite -- 3,278.36 down 204.78
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.71% up 0.08
The euro -- $0.8403 down 0.0009
The dollar -- 108.69 yen down 0.28
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income figures from March-August 2000. (September figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.)
Expected: +0.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (59%); PG (NYSE) (59%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (59%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (59%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (59%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (59%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MERGERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (87%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); FILM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AIRLINES (70%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); MUSIC (68%); BESTSELLERS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); JUDGES (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); 

PERSON: PETER JENNINGS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



800 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Italy's New Politics: The Beauty Contest

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Italians are known for their sense of style, so it is perhaps fitting that the campaign for 2001 parliamentary elections, which will determine whether Italy stays center-left or veers center-right, is fixated on looks. Italians will choose between two candidates for prime minister who could easily pass for rivals on "The Dating Game."
Silvio Berlusconi, a media tycoon and leader of Forza Italia, the leading center-right party, is a perennially tanned former cruise-ship crooner who, at 64, retains the glossy good looks and Continental charm of a Rossano Brazzi. Mr. Berlusconi is also one of the richest men in Italy. 
 Francesco Rutelli, the 46-year-old mayor of Rome, brings a dash of Paul Newman glamour to Italian politics. The monthly Catholic magazine Famiglia Cristiana is not known for swooning celebrity interviews, but even its editors could not resist informing readers that the mayor's face "would not look out of place among the busts of Roman emperors in the Capitoline museums."
Mr. Rutelli's looks have already become an issue in a campaign that has barely started. When Prime Minister Giuliano Amato, 62, decided last month to bow out in favor of the younger, more popular Mr. Rutelli, Mr. Berlusconi scoffed that his new rival was just a pretty face.
But Mr. Berlusconi does not underestimate the power of a taut jaw line. He has already flooded Italy with billboards featuring gauzy portraits of himself taken at a younger, more slender time.
Each candidate claims to be the face of a new Italy, a modern democracy shaking itself loose from lingering economic rigidity, red tape and corruption to meet the challenges of a global economy.
In American terms, Mr. Berlusconi is like a Republican, campaigning on a platform of lower taxes, less government regulation and more free-market reform.
When he became prime minister in 1994, for eight months, Mr. Berlusconi won by campaigning as a self-made businessman who could rise above the morass of political cronyism and corruption that had caused the Socialists and Christian Democrats to collapse during the Tangentopoli (Bribesville) investigations of the early 1990's.
Mr. Berlusconi is popular with Italians, many of whom do not seem to hold him accountable for his string of convictions for bribery and accounting irregularities. Most of his convictions were reversed on appeal, or the statute of limitations ran out before the legal processes were completed, but he still faces trials on charges of falsifying accounts and bribing a judge.
He has turned over management of his companies to his children and recently said that if elected he would put his assets in a blind trust. But he is lobbying fiercely to rescind a law, sponsored by the center-left, imposing equal-access rules for candidates on television and radio, which would restrict his ability to use his own networks to promote his candidacy. The synergy of his business and political interests risks lending his carefully honed image a taint of old-style politics as usual.
Mr. Rutelli, who was anointed in a balloon-filled political convention this month before embarking on a "listening tour" of Italy that included preparing a Caprese salad on a cooking show on the Italian version of MTV, faces an oddly similar problem. (That tape may never be aired, however, because the producers belatedly realized that the new law on equal access would oblige them to invite many other chef-politicians who are far less appetizing to their youthful viewers). The media-savvy mayor has already sought the advice of Jeremy Rosner and Tal Silberstein, political consultants who work with Stan Greenberg, Al Gore's pollster.
Mr. Rutelli wants to project himself as a "third way" centrist along the lines of Bill Clinton and Tony Blair. But he relies on a fractured and fractious center-left coalition whose inability to get along also recalls the revolving-door governments of old.
At least one centrist is threatening to run as a third-party candidate, which could further divide the splintered center-left.
Mr. Berlusconi's coalition has cracks of its own. He owes much of his electoral strength in the north to the Northern League, a separatist-leaning party led by Umberto Bossi. It was Mr. Bossi who caused Mr. Berlusconi's government to collapse in 1994 by withdrawing his support.
Mr. Bossi's recent statements on immigration and race are an embarrassment to his partners. He made headlines this fall when he said the next prime minister should prove he has "a legitimate family with legitimate children," apparently a somewhat bizarre attack on Mr. Rutelli, who has adopted an Ecuadorean child.
The Roman Catholic Church still has political influence in Italy, and both candidates have been courting Catholic voters.
Mr. Rutelli, who began his career in the Radical Party, advocating separation of church and state and the right to divorce and abortion, has rediscovered his Catholic roots.
Two years ago, he helped to found the Democrats, a moderate faction on the left. In 1995 he remarried his wife -- whom he had wed in a civil ceremony in 1982 -- in the Catholic Church. Rome's deft management of this year's Jubilee 2000, a Holy Year of the Roman Catholic Church, won him international praise.
But the mayor suffered a setback in July during the World Pride Roma 2000 festival, when he first embraced a gay-pride parade through Rome, then distanced himself from it after the Vatican complained. Conservatives in the Vatican were not appeased, and his liberal constituency complained that he had caved in to the church.
The economy, however, is more likely to determine who wins the election. The tax rate in Italy's top bracket is close to 46 percent, among the highest in Europe, while the bloated pension system is in dire need of reform. Unemployment is at 10 percent, and reaches 20 percent in some southern regions.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Silvio Berlusconi, above, is the center-right leader in the coming vote. Francesco Rutelli, Rome's mayor, leads the center-left. (Associated Press); (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROME, ITALY (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CORRUPTION (86%); BRIBERY (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (84%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (76%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); LOBBYING (68%); ACCOUNTING (62%); SPONSORSHIP (61%); APPEALS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (52%); 

PERSON: BERLUSCONI, SILVIO; RUTELLI, FRANCESCO (MAYOR); STANLEY, ALESSANDRA SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

 
