

601 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Return to the Streets After Curfew, but Cautiously 

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Hosham Hussein, Ali Adeeb and Qais Mizher contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Tuesday, Feb. 28 

 BODY:
Iraqis returned cautiously to the streets and to their jobs on Monday after three days of government-imposed curfew, in this capital still reeling from the worst outbreak of sectarian violence since the fall of Saddam Hussein.
 Although traffic in the capital quickly returned to its usual gridlock, the mood was apprehensive, with military and police checkpoints remaining in the streets or near mosques. Some sectarian attacks continued, with a bomb detonating outside a Sunni mosque in eastern Baghdad, killing 4 worshipers and wounding 18, Interior Ministry officials said.
The bombing was the latest in a series of attacks on Sunni mosques and civilians that began after an explosion damaged one of Iraq's most sacred Shiite shrines in Samarra last week. The violence brought the country to the brink of civil war. At least 246 people in Baghdad alone were killed, the top two city morgue officials said Tuesday. There were numerous bodies found outside the capital including 47 protesters killed in a single incident south of Baghdad right after the shrine bombing. 
 On Monday, with the daytime curfew over and a semblance of normalcy returning, signs remained everywhere of a nation still on high alert against more bloodshed.
 ''We don't know whether Shiites or Sunnis will attack us now,'' said the owner of a tea shop in the commercial area of Baghdad known as Karrada who would give his name only as Laith, out of fear for his safety. 
 In northern Baghdad on Monday, residents emerged from their homes to see Iraqi Army tanks rolling through the streets. The tanks were part of a contingent that was sent to guard a prominent Sunni mosque after mortars struck a house in a nearby neighborhood, killing 4 civilians and wounding 17, Iraqi officials said.
 South of the capital, in Mahmudiya, nine bodies were found blindfolded and shot in the head, police officials said. Four more bodies were found to the north, in Baquba.
 Iraqi security forces remained on high alert elsewhere in the country, too, with reinforced police patrols standing guard outside mosques in the northern city of Kirkuk. The American military maintained an elevated tempo of patrols in mixed Sunni-Shiite areas as well.
 Iraqi leaders continued to meet in emergency sessions to prevent further outbreaks of violence. A national security council created over the weekend to coordinate responses to the violence is scheduled to meet on Thursday for a second time. 
 Although leaders of Iraq's main Sunni Arab political bloc agreed Sunday to return to talks over the formation of a new government, those talks are still in early stages. Some disagreement persists over whether the new Parliament should meet in the next two weeks or after a full government is formed -- which could take months, said Alaa Makki, a member of the main Sunni Arab political bloc in Parliament.
 The Sunni bloc, the Iraqi Concordance Front, returned to talks on the condition that all the Sunni mosques that were raided and occupied in the violence be returned to their owners, Mr. Makki said. Most have been returned, he said, but some remain in the hands of Shiite militia fighters.
 Also on Monday, Iraq's interior minister told ABC News that the kidnapped American reporter Jill Carroll was still alive and that he knew who had kidnapped her and believed she would be released soon. Ms. Carroll, 28, was kidnapped Jan. 7, and her captors issued a statement through a Kuwaiti television station this month demanding that the Americans and Iraqis release all imprisoned women by Feb. 26 or she would be killed.
 Most of the attacks on Sunni mosques over the last week took place on the fringes of Sadr City, a vast Shiite slum where the Shiite militia responsible for much of the violence, the Mahdi Army, functions as an unofficial police force. To some Baghdad residents, the mosque attacks were as much about the crime growing out of Baghdad's poverty and general lawlessness as they were about sectarianism. 
 ''The violence was in the poor areas,'' said Haithm Khadum, 39, the owner of an electrical supply shop in Karrada, which is mostly Shiite, like the areas where the violence broke out. ''It's safe here.'' 
 He and several other residents seemed unwilling to acknowledge that any of their fellow Iraqis could have been involved in the widespread violence of the last week. 
 ''People from other countries are responsible, not the Mahdi Army, not the government,'' Mr. Khadum said. Several other men standing nearby agreed. They also agreed that the sectarian violence was worsened by Iraq's poverty and lack of an effective government. 
 ''There are no jobs,'' said Hashem Lawi Alwan, a 36-year-old day laborer. ''The security is bad, and the economic situation is bad. If this situation continues, there will be a war between the people.'' 
 But those who witnessed the mosque attacks gave a different view. 
 ''I was heading to my house in southern Baghdad last Wednesday when three guys wearing old clothes and looking filthy blocked the street with their red Opel and were shouting at people to turn around,'' said Muhammad Hussein, 34, an artist and a Sunni Arab. The men began firing a rocket-propelled grenade at a Sunni mosque, Mr. Hussein said. 
 ''I heard them talking, so I know for a fact they were Iraqis,'' Mr. Hussein said. ''But I felt as if they were brainwashed or crazy because of the attack on the shrine. We have a lot of narrow-minded people here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An Iraqi Army tank guarded a checkpoint in northern Baghdad yesterday, as part of a contingent sent to protect a prominent Sunni mosque. A bomb outside a Sunni mosque in eastern Baghdad killed four worshipers. (Photo by Akram Saleh/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CURFEW (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); HEAD INJURIES (70%) Bombs and Explosives; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Curfews

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%) Robert F Worth; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



602 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Americans Are Cautiously Open to Gas Tax Rise, Poll Shows 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and MEGAN THEE; Marina Stefan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Americans are overwhelmingly opposed to a higher federal gasoline tax, but a significant number would go along with an increase if it reduced global warming or made the United States less dependent on foreign oil, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 The nationwide telephone poll, conducted Wednesday through Sunday, suggested that a gasoline tax increase that brought measurable results would be acceptable to a majority of Americans. 
Neither the Bush administration nor Democratic Party leaders make that distinction. Both are opposed to increasing the gasoline tax as a means of discouraging consumption, although President Bush, in recent speeches, has called for the development of alternative energy to reduce dependence on foreign oil. 
 Eighty-five percent of the 1,018 adults polled opposed an increase in the federal gasoline tax, suggesting that politicians have good reason to steer away from so unpopular a measure. But 55 percent said they would support an increase in the tax, which has been 18.4 cents a gallon since 1993, if it did in fact reduce dependence on foreign oil. Fifty-nine percent were in favor if the result was less gasoline consumption and less global warming. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
 ''The tax would have to be earmarked for certain specific projects,'' one of the people polled, Rich Arnold, 54, a Republican who teaches criminal justice at Louisiana State University, said in a follow-up interview. He added, ''If it was a tax that would sponsor research for fuel cells or alternative fuel sources, I could buy that.''
 Some people were concerned that a higher gasoline tax would find its way into what they considered the wrong hands -- unless it were directed to a specific use, just as the current 18.4-cent tax is channeled into highway maintenance and construction. Lisa Fisher, a 36-year-old yoga instructor in Chicago who described herself as a Democrat, wants any additional revenue earmarked.
 ''If the tax is increased and oil companies reap the benefit, I would be against it,'' Ms. Fisher said. ''But if the tax money went to the development of electric cars, I would favor the higher tax. It is important we are not dependent on foreign oil. We are over there fighting because we are dependent.''
 Twenty-four percent of those polled said they would support a higher federal gasoline tax if the new revenue was used to help fight terrorism, and 28 percent would go along with a gasoline tax increase if, as an offset, their income taxes or payroll taxes were lowered. Betty Forde, 46, an administrator for the New York City Police Department, fell into this category. 
 ''Taxes in general are very high,'' said Ms. Forde, who earns $50,000 a year and does not own a car or drive. 
 ''This may be a bit selfish on my part,'' she said, ''but I use taxis a lot, and if the gasoline tax goes up, they are going to charge me more. There must be some offset.''
 Many mainstream economists believe that a shift that raises the gasoline tax while lowering income-based taxes is the most efficient way to reduce consumption. It might require a $1-a-gallon increase in the tax phased in over five years, said Severin Borenstein, director of an energy institute at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 Because increasing the gas tax is regressive, falling hardest on those who can least afford it, Mr. Borenstein would offset the bite by lowering income taxes in a way that would ''make most middle and lower income people better off.'' But they would end up driving less because of the rising cost of gasoline, some economists believe. By Mr. Borenstein's calculation, a 10 percent increase in the price of gasoline reduces consumption by 6 to 8 percent ''over the long run.'' 
 A higher tax might have carried some weight with Rosalee Evans of Norfolk, Va., before the price of gasoline broke above $2 a gallon last March and peaked in early September, a week after Hurricane Katrina, at $3.07. The nationwide average for regular-grade gasoline has since fallen, to $2.24 a gallon last week, the Energy Department reports. That includes the federal tax and 21.04 cents, on average, in various state and local taxes. 
 ''At least get the price down to $2 or $2.10 a gallon,'' said Ms. Evans, who works for a firm that brings entertainers to the Tidewater area and who drives a lot, recruiting talent. ''I could live with that price, and then I would consider raising the federal gasoline tax to combat global warming, but a reasonable tax increase, not a big one.'' 
 A falling gasoline price, however, would undermine the pressure on people to buy fuel-efficient cars and move closer to their work, reducing their commute. 
 The problem is that the transition would be painful, even punitive, said Ashok Gupta, an economist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group. To speed things, he would funnel some of the additional tax revenue to manufacturers ''as an incentive to offer more efficient vehicles, like hybrid cars.'' 
 Vincent Bussey, who earns $34,000 maintaining computers at a bank in Los Angeles, agreed. Like most of those polled, he opposed a higher gasoline tax unless it were used to develop ''new technologies that made the nation somewhat more self-reliant.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Americans on Gasoline Taxes''Would you favor or oppose an increased federal tax on gasoline?FAVOR: 12%OPPOSE: 85NO OPINION: 3What if the increased tax on gasoline would reduce the United States' dependence on foreign oil, then would you favor or oppose an increased federal tax on gasoline?FAVOR: 55%OPPOSE: 37NO OPINION: 8What if the increased tax on gasoline would cut down on energy consumption and reduce global warming, then would you favor or oppose an increased federal tax on gasoline?FAVOR: 59%OPPOSE: 34NO OPINION: 7Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted by The New York Times and CBS News Feb. 22-26 with 1,018 adults.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); TAX INCREASES (92%); GASOLINE (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); YOGA (50%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); POLICE FORCES (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Taxation; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather; Global Warming; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%) Louis Uchitelle; Megan Thee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



603 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: DuPont Looking to Displace Fossil Fuels as Building Blocks of Chemicals 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Nestled away in a small room on DuPont's 150-acre research center in Wilmington, Del., robotic arms fill tiny tubes with gelatinous material that was extracted from corn and soybean plants. Other metallic arms will soon dip and measure and deconstruct each sample, spewing forth a list of its attributes and traits.
 Only a fistful -- maybe one of every 50 -- will move on to the fermentation lab, a few buildings away. There, researchers will see how the samples react to different mixtures of air, glucose and microbes. Down the hall, other researchers will tinker with the microbes themselves.
All of them are chasing the same holy grail: bio-based substances that can replace oil and gas as building blocks for chemicals. ''We figure out what works in theory, and then we see what works in practice,'' Alexander D. Kopatsis, a research associate, said. 
 E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, unlike most chemical companies, has moved the quest for bio-based raw materials off the wish list and onto the to-do agenda. The company has allocated nearly 10 percent of its $1.3 billion research budget to extracting ingredients from carbohydrates -- things that grow and can be infinitely replaced -- rather than from hydrocarbons, which are mined or drilled and readily depleted. 
 DuPont already makes 10 percent of its products from nonpetrochemical substances, and Charles O. Holliday Jr., DuPont's chief executive, expects to increase that to 25 percent by 2010. By then, he says, such products will yield the equivalent of $3 billion in revenue in current dollars. The way Mr. Holliday sees it, so-called industrial biotechnology can solve myriad problems. It can insulate DuPont from the relentless rise in gas and oil prices. It can win kudos from environmentalists and shareholders who worry about the harmful effect of extracting and burning oil. It can play well in Washington, particularly since a quest for alternate energy sources was a crucial point in President Bush's State of the Union message. But during a nearly two-hour conversation in his spacious office above the Hotel DuPont, Mr. Holliday stressed his real motive in pushing for bio-based materials: his belief that they yield better products. He notes, for example, that the corn-based propane diol, a product used in carpet fibers that DuPont will begin selling this spring, offers better dye absorption and stain resistance than the petrochemical version DuPont now sells. 
 ''We're using biology to solve problems that chemistry can't,'' he said. 
 It is not just bombast. DuPont is working with the Energy Department to turn corn plants -- the husks, the ears, the stems, everything -- into vehicular fuel. DuPont is close to developing plant-based hair dyes and nail polishes that will not adhere to skin, surgical bio-glues that can stanch internal bleeding and a textile fiber made from sugar that will act and feel like cotton. 
 This spring DuPont will open a factory in Loudon, Tenn., that will make propane diol -- trademarked as Sorona -- from glucose. For now the output is earmarked for carpet fiber, but DuPont is exploring whether it can work in rigid plastics for automobile interiors or de-icing compounds for airplanes. 
 The company has already converted many labs that once worked on pharmaceuticals or textiles -- two businesses DuPont has shed -- to now search for ingredients to replace oil and gas. Next year, it plans to cluster them all in one building and move a marketing staff in with them. 
 ''Industrial biotechnology is an area in which we can differentiate ourselves, so we're spending a lot more than any other company on it,'' said Thomas M. Connelly, DuPont's chief science officer.
 DuPont's optimism has other chemical industry executives scratching their heads. Dow Chemical pulled out of a joint venture with Cargill to make polylactic acid, a component of food packaging, from corn. Eastman Chemical sold its stake in Genencor International, a leader in industrial biotechnology. 
 ''We really do believe that industrial biotech is critical to our evolution, but the technologies of the foreseeable future just do not give the returns we expect from our research dollar,'' said Andrew N. Liveris, chief executive of Dow, which is looking for ways to make polyurethane from soybean oil, but has put a higher priority on extracting ingredients from coal. 
 Friedhelm Balkenhohl, senior vice president for bio-catalysis research at the BASF Corporation, echoes that view. ''Raw material change is one of our hot topics, but even 10 years from now, renewables will account for less than 10 percent of our ingredients,'' he said. 
 Some companies are shrugging off bio-based ingredients entirely, and concentrating solely on using petroleum ingredients more efficiently. ''I'm glad that larger companies are spending their time, talent and money in such exotic areas, because they have left a wide-open field for us that we are fully exploiting,'' said Jeffrey M. Lipton, chief executive of the Nova Chemicals Corporation, which makes building-block chemicals like styrene and polyethylene. 
 The skeptics do not faze Mr. Holliday. He points to the thriving business that DuPont -- and even more so, Monsanto -- has built from genetically engineered crops. ''Ten years ago it didn't seem logical to go after insect-resistant crops, either,'' he said. ''We're not betting the company on bio-based materials, but we do think they have the potential to have the same impact on us that long-chain polymers once did,'' he said, referring to the scientific discoveries that led to nylon. 
 Industrial biotechnology is not a new concept, of course. As far back as the 1970's, companies experimented with turning crops and agricultural waste into fuels. In most cases, the processes were costly and polluting. Even worse, it often took more oil to transport the alternate fuels from farm to factory than was saved by eliminating petrochemicals. 
 The economics work better today. Prices for oil and gas remain persistently high, and few industry prognosticators predict steep plunges. Moreover, fermentation technologies have improved, as has the ability to isolate and manipulate plant genes. And the growing clamor from environmentalists and environmentally conscious shareholders has given companies an added impetus to invest in ''green'' technologies like renewable resources.
 Still, of the chemical companies, DuPont seems to have the most immediate need for the advantages that industrial biotechnology can provide. In the late 1990's it paid more than $9 billion to buy the seed company Pioneer Hi-bred, a price that many analysts still insist was too high. If DuPont can use more of Pioneer's biotechnology expertise, it can perhaps allay the criticism. 
 Moreover, DuPont's once-stellar reputation for scientific innovation has flagged of late. Although DuPont portrays itself as a new-product mill -- Mr. Holliday says that a third of last year's revenues came from products that were less than five years old -- analysts say too many of the new products represent incremental improvements. They note, for example, that DuPont's new hybrid corn seeds do yield more corn, but not enough to gain share back from Monsanto. 
 ''In the last three, four years, nothing has stood out as a really breakout product,'' said William R. Young, an analyst at Credit Suisse who has a neutral rating on DuPont shares. Goldman Sachs has an outperform rating on DuPont stock, yet Edlain Rodriguez, a Goldman analyst, agrees. ''DuPont has always prided itself on being a science company, and it has to find a way to regain that leadership,'' he said.
 It is under severe time pressure. Like many chemical companies, DuPont's costs soared when high energy prices were made worse by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. Teflon, one of DuPont's workhorse products, contains perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, which has been linked to cancer and strokes, and which the Environmental Protection Agency has asked manufacturers to eliminate. 
 And about 18 percent of DuPont's pretax earnings stem from sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar, two hypertension drugs it developed before it sold its pharmaceutical business to Bristol-Myers in 2002. The patents on the drugs expire in 2010, and so will DuPont's $751 million in annual royalties. 
 Analysts are divided on DuPont's prospects. According to Thomson Financial, of the 16 analysts that follow the company, 11 rate it a buy while five rate it a hold. Shares of DuPont, which were trading in the $50 range in the first half of 2005, fell 27 cents, to $40.05 yesterday. 
 Clearly, DuPont hopes that biochemistry will pump the stock up. ''If we can make this integrated science game work, it will be ours to lose,'' said John Pierce, director of biochemical sciences and engineering.
 It will still be a hard game to play. Oil and gas remain easier to transport than solids like corn and soybeans, and do not degrade with harsh weather. Plants also vary widely in shape and composition, making it harder to control the quality of distillates made from them. 
 ''The corn crop, the sugar crop, either can be good or bad, and that makes the market inherently volatile,'' said David N. Weidman, chief executive of the Celanese Corporation, which has temporarily shelved a patented process for getting micro-organisms to excrete acetic acid. ''We are not saying that biotechnology will never result in chemicals, but it is a long, arduous and risky road.'' 
 Then, again, so is the prospect of relying on foreign oil. Albert H. Segars, professor of technology management at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina, notes that against the backdrop of political instability in so many oil-producing regions, DuPont's biotechnology strategy seems almost safe. ''If a war breaks out with Iran,'' he said, ''your biology-based fuels will look at lot better than your petro-based ones.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles O. Holliday Jr., DuPont's chief, supports bio-based materials. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Researchers like Jack DeCarolis, a DuPont biologist, examine how extracts from plants react to mixtures of air, glucose and microbes. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (93%); CHEMICALS MFG (91%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (89%); BIOMASS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); CHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ALCOHOLS (77%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PROPANE (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); ROBOTICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Chemicals; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Carbohydrates; Hydrocarbons; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Chemicals

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Du Pont De Nemours, E I, & Co

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (95%); DD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (95%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%)

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (89%) Claudia H Deutsch; Charles O Jr Holliday

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%) DELAWARE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



604 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyist Turns Senator but Twists Same Arms

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
It might be said that Senator John Thune went through the revolving door -- backward.
 As a lobbyist in 2003 and 2004, Mr. Thune earned $220,000 from the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad, a small but ambitious company in South Dakota. The railroad hopes to rebuild and rehabilitate 1,300 miles of track, the nation's largest proposed railroad expansion in more than a century.
Now, as a junior senator from South Dakota, Mr. Thune is working to make that happen, raising questions about whether there should be curbs on lobbyists-turned-lawmakers in the same way that there are on those who take the more traditional route of leaving Capitol Hill for K Street. 
 Last year, his first in the Senate, Mr. Thune wrote language into a transportation bill expanding the pot of federal loan money for small railroads, enabling his former client to apply for $2.5 billion in government financing for its project. The loan has yet to be approved; Mr. Thune said he was trying to promote economic development in his home state. 
 ''I don't apologize, and never will,'' said Mr. Thune, a Republican, ''for working for South Dakota companies that are creating South Dakota jobs.''
 There are no legal restrictions on the legislative activities of former lobbyists who get elected to Congress. But in the wake of the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal and the subsequent focus on ethics, Mr. Thune's experience has put a spotlight on what some experts call ''the reverse revolving door.''
 The issue is among those likely to be debated on Tuesday, when the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration meets to draft changes to the lobbying law. Senator Mark Dayton, Democrat of Minnesota and a member of the rules committee, is furious with Mr. Thune over the rail project, and intends to propose language imposing a two-year ban on lawmakers' getting ''personally and substantially'' involved in matters affecting former clients.
 ''This makes some of the Jack Abramoff deals look like penny ante,'' said Mr. Dayton, who has a prominent constituent, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., that is fighting the rail expansion. ''It's the most despicable special-interest deal I've ever seen in all my 30 years in government.''
 Independent experts do not go that far, and Mr. Thune, a former House member and former South Dakota state railroad director, has a long history with railroad issues. Yet some outside experts agree with Mr. Dayton that a cooling-off period for former lobbyists is necessary. 
 Currently, lawmakers and Congressional aides are barred from lobbying former colleagues on Capitol Hill for one year after leaving public office. On Tuesday, Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi and the chairman of the rules committee, is expected to propose legislation that would go further, rescinding House and Senate floor privileges for former lawmakers who become registered lobbyists.
 Mr. Lott's bill does not address the issue of lobbyists who get elected to Congress. But Keith Ashdown, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a government watchdog group, said lobbyists-turned-lawmakers should step aside from legislation involving former clients. 
 And James Thurber, an expert in money and politics at American University in Washington who has testified before the rules panel, said candidates should not lobby for a year before Election Day.
 ''If they're going to be running for the Senate or the House they should not be lobbying right up to the election,'' Professor Thurber said, adding: ''The conflict of interest is too serious. In a representative democracy, you have to be very careful about cutting off the linkages to specialized interests while you're in office, as well as just before you get in office and after you leave.''
 According to public records and a list compiled by Professor Thurber, at least eight current members of Congress worked as lobbyists before being elected. Some, like Mr. Thune and Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, became lobbyists during a hiatus in public service. 
 Mr. Lungren, a former House member and California attorney general, worked as a lobbyist from the late 1990's until he returned to the House in 2005. Mr. Thune, who retired from the House in 2002, began lobbying after he lost his bid for a Senate seat that year. He continued through 2004, when he ran again and won.
 His one-man company, the Thune Group, which he operated out of his Sioux Falls home, had just four clients, all with South Dakota connections; they included a boneless-beef manufacturer, a company that builds ethanol plants and a major hospital in Sioux Falls. He was also affiliated with a Washington-based law firm, Arent Fox, representing a recycling facility and the National Milk Producers Federation.
 Others have had far more extensive client lists. Representative Doris Matsui, Democrat of California, represented dozens of clients -- including agricultural associations, a pharmaceutical business and Verizon, the telephone company -- while her late husband, Robert, was serving in Congress. She was elected to fill his seat when he died.
 Still others, like Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, have not lobbied for years. Mr. Bennett opened the Washington office of the J.C. Penney Company in the 1960's, he said, back in the days ''when lobbyists didn't earn as much as members.''
 Mr. Bennett said he saw nothing wrong with Mr. Thune's work; he said lobbyists often had expertise that could translate into good public policy. 
 ''I left Penney's in 1969 to join the Nixon administration and I didn't come to the Senate until 1992, but I brought with me a residual understanding of retailing and retailing issues,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''That expertise was helpful, and I did some things, frankly, that were helpful to the J.C. Penney Company. If it's good public policy, the fact that I brought that experience and expertise with me probably contributed to it.''
 That is precisely Mr. Thune's argument.
 As the railroad's lobbyist, he helped Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern obtain a $230 million loan from the Federal Railroad Administration. The company president, Kevin V. Schieffer -- a former chief of staff to a previous South Dakota senator, Larry Pressler -- said that Mr. Thune had ''real bona fide rail industry experience,'' and that he did not see any conflict.
 ''He got his last check from us a long time ago,'' Mr. Schieffer said. 
 Mr. Thune said the work convinced him that the same loan program could finance the big rail expansion, intended to transport so-called ''clean-burning coal'' from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming to the East Coast. Mr. Thune said the project was in keeping with President Bush's energy policy and would also create thousands of jobs in South Dakota.
 The trouble was, the loan program was too small -- just $3.5 billion all told, with $1 billion for smaller railroads like the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern. So Mr. Thune, drawing on existing legislation that was stalled, proposed increasing it to $35 billion, with $7 billion for small railroads. Although the Senate initially passed a lesser amount, Mr. Thune persuaded colleagues to include the full $35 billion when the transportation bill went to conference with the House. 
 Mr. Dayton, who once co-sponsored a similar bill but now says that doing so was a mistake, calls the loan provision a ''totally irresponsible boondoggle.'' Mr. Thune says that everything was done in the open, and that his constituents elected him knowing exactly whom he had worked for, and how much he was paid.
 ''If you start banning elected officials from using their working knowledge on behalf of constituents,'' he said, ''I think it would greatly erode our representative form of government.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Tuesday listing lobbyists who became politicians referred incorrectly to Representative Dan Lungren's election in 2004. Mr. Lungren, who represented Long Beach, Calif., from 1979 to 1989, was elected to represent the Sacramento area in 2004. He was not re-elected to his old seat.
A chart on Tuesday listing lobbyists who became politicians referred incorrectly to Representative Dan Lungren's election in 2004. Mr. Lungren, who represented Long Beach, Calif., from 1979 to 1989, was elected to represent the Sacramento area in 2004. He was not re-elected to his old seat.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Former Lives''Some members of Congress have worked as lobbyists either before they entered public service or during a hiatus. Here are four:MEMBER OF CONGRESSREPRESENTATIVE JO ANN EMERSONRepublican, Missouri Elected to Congress in 1996.LOBBYING ACTIVITIESMs. Emerson lobbied for the American Insurance Association from 1994 to 1996.REPRESENTATIVE DAN LUNGRENRepublican, California Served in House 1979-89
served as California's attorney general 1991-99
re-elected to his old seat in Congress in 2004.LOBBYING ACTIVITIESFrom 2001 to 2003, Mr. Lungren worked as a lawyer and lobbyist for the Venable law firm. His clients included Bear Stearns, Coalition for Indian Development, Hilton, Marriott, Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund and Lockheed Martin.REPRESENTATIVE DORIS MATSUIDemocrat, California After the death of her husband, Representative Robert T. Matsui, she was elected to succeed him in an election in March 2005.LOBBYING ACTIVITIESAfter serving in the Clinton White House (1993-98), Ms. Matsui joined the law firm of Collier Shannon Scott and lobbied for numerous companies and organizations, including Verizon, Hershey Foods, Budget Rent a Car and Fannie Mae.SENATOR JOHN THUNERepublican, South Dakota Elected to the House in 1996 and served three terms
 elected to Senate in 2004.LOBBYING ACTIVITIESAfter he left Congress in January 2003, Mr. Thune lobbied for the National Milk Producers Federation through a Washington law firm and independently lobbied for several companies including DM&E Railroad, based in Sioux Falls, and Broin Companies, an ethanol producer, also in Sioux Falls.(Source by United States Senate Office of Public Records)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); APPROVALS (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); SCANDALS (64%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: DAKOTA MINNESOTA & EASTERN RAILROAD CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (59%); AMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (91%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (91%)

PERSON: JOHN THUNE (92%); MARK DAYTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (78%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Jack Abramoff; Trent (Sen) Lott; John (Sen) Thune; Jo Ann (Rep) Emerson; Dan (Rep) Lungren; Doris (Rep) Matsui; Mark (Sen) Dayton

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (79%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (73%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (98%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States; United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



605 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: President Bush Goes to India

 BODY:
When President Bill Clinton went to India six years ago, he danced to folk music with women in a rural Rajasthani village, ate bowls of black lentil stew at a posh restaurant in New Delhi, and spotted a rare Bengal tiger at a wildlife reserve south of Jaipur. He was cheered wildly in India's Parliament. 
 President Bush's visit to the world's second most populous nation will likely be less entertaining visually; Mr. Bush, after all, isn't even planning to visit the Taj Mahal, let alone address India's legislature, which both nations have decided is too raucous to risk an appearance by this president. But Mr. Bush's two-day visit, to begin tomorrow, is a far more significant presidential trip, for both strategic and economic reasons. 
Relations between the United States and India have never been more important, thanks to global terror in the post-Sept. 11 world, the search for sustainable energy resources and the United Nations' pledge to halve world poverty by 2015. More than 500 million of the world's poor are Indian villagers. India is also home to one the largest Muslim populations in the world.
 So it's a pity that this trip, which should focus American attention on such a rich array of issues, now revolves largely around whether India and America will manage to conclude a nuclear deal that shouldn't have been initiated to begin with.
 The United States is at an important crossroad in its relations with India, home to more than one billion people and an economy that is growing at around 6 percent every year. 
 For decades after India's independence, American policy toward the huge country was one of adversarial neglect. During the cold war, Washington viewed India through the narrow prism of the geopolitics of that era. And since the collapse of the Soviet Union, things haven't gotten that much better. Relations between the United States and India chilled when India tested a nuclear bomb in 1998, going further south after Washington imposed punitive sanctions. Now the Bush administration appears to be looking at India primarily as a counterbalance to China's growing ascendancy.
 Against that backdrop, Mr. Bush would be well employed simply building bridges between the world's two largest democracies and focusing on economic issues of common concern. 
 The president is planning the obligatory trip to a center of high technology, although White House strategists, mindful of election-year fears in the United States about call centers and outsourcing, chose the more diversified city of Hyderabad instead of the call-center capital, Bangalore. Hyderabad has a big Muslim population, so it is also a chance for Mr. Bush to try to counter some of the damage done lately to relations between Muslims and the West.
 But there's not enough substance to these parts of Mr. Bush's schedule to disguise the fact that this trip is built around a bad nuclear deal. 
 President Bush's wrongheaded decision last year to make an end run around the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty by agreeing to share civilian nuclear technology with New Delhi took America's contain-China-by-building-up-India strategy a step too far. The Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty's basic bargain has been to reward countries that renounced nuclear weapons with the opportunity to import sensitive nuclear technology to help meet their energy needs. For decades, America has imposed nuclear export restrictions on India -- and Pakistan, for that matter -- in response to those countries' refusal to sign the nonproliferation treaty and their open development of nuclear weapons. 
 This carrot-and-stick approach has dissuaded many other countries capable of building or buying nuclear arms from doing so, from South Korea to Turkey to Saudi Arabia. Now President Bush wants to carve out an exception for India. That's the worst possible message to send to other countries -- Iran comes to mind -- that America and its nuclear allies in Europe are trying to keep off the nuclear weapons bandwagon. Already, Pakistani officials are requesting the same deal for their country, although it is a request that is unlikely to be granted.
 Congress would have to approve this nuclear deal, and it should kill it. If lawmakers approved the arrangement with India, other countries that signed on to the nonproliferation treaty would be tempted to reconsider the cost-benefit bargain that kept them from developing nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); MAMMALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COLD WAR (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); RELIGION (66%); CALL CENTERS (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (53%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Editorials; Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (73%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



606 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally, Led by Retailers and Big Drop in Oil Prices 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday as better-than-expected earnings from the home improvement retailer Lowe's and a decline of almost $2 a barrel in oil prices led the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a six-week high. 
 Retailers led the gains after Lowe's posted the biggest increase in quarterly profit in three years. The results helped investors shake off a government report that new-home sales fell more than economists had forecast, a signal that the housing market is cooling. 
 ''You are seeing earnings which are very much ahead of analyst estimates,'' said Brian Sullivan, who manages $5 billion as chairman of AmSouth Asset Management in Birmingham, Ala. The report from Lowe's shows ''confidence in the consumer, confidence in the economy and builds confidence in the stock market.'' 
 The S.& P. 500 added 4.69 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,294.12, just below the four-year high of 1,294.18 on Jan. 11. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 35.70 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,097.55. 
 SanDisk led the Nasdaq composite index higher after Citigroup Investment Research upgraded the stock. The Nasdaq rallied 20.14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,307.18. 
 The S.& P. 500 has advanced this month as better-than-expected earnings and lower oil prices heightened optimism that consumer spending and corporate profits will exceed forecasts. The index is up 1.1 percent in February, while the Dow average has gained 2.1 percent, and the Nasdaq is up 0.1 percent. 
 Lowe's rose $3.78, or 5.8 percent, to $69.30, for the fourth-biggest gain in the S.& P. 500. The company said fourth-quarter profit was 87 cents a share, more than the 80 cents expected by analysts. Lowe's profit gain of 37 percent was the biggest in three years. 
 Its larger rival, Home Depot, rallied 82 cents, to $42.45. An index of retail companies gained 1.9 percent, for the best performance among two dozen S.& P. 500 industry groups. 
 SanDisk, the world's largest maker of flash-memory cards, was upgraded to buy from hold by a Citigroup analyst, Craig Ellis, who said he was increasing his 2007 and 2008 earnings estimates based on networking products and royalty revenue. Its shares rose $4.74, to $61.08.
 A drop in energy prices may also help earnings. Crude oil for April delivery tumbled $1.91, or 3 percent, to $61 in New York as concern eased that exports from Saudi Arabia would be disrupted. Last week, the kingdom foiled an attack on its largest processing plant for crude oil. 
 Lower oil prices also helped alleviate concerns about inflation that have prompted Fed policy makers to increase interest rates 14 times since June 2004, to 4.50 percent. 
 Merrill Lynch added $1.12, to $77.88. The company said it would buy back $6 billion of its stock in the firm's biggest share repurchase ever. 
 Cablevision Systems gained $1.26, to $26.46. The cable company added 130,000 new phone subscribers in the fourth quarter and its sales in the fourth quarter rose to $1.49 billion, topping analysts' forecasts. 
 The home sales data pushed an S.& P. index of homebuilders down 1.6 percent. D. R. Horton, the nation's biggest homebuilder, slid 87 cents, to $35.23. Toll Brothers, the largest builder of luxury homes, fell 69 cents, to $32.65. 
 Energy companies weighed on the S.& P. 500. Schlumberger fell $2.76, to $115.38. National Oilwell Varco, a maker of oil field equipment, declined $2.68, to $61.11. 
 Avon Products climbed 70 cents, to $28.99. Avon was awarded China's first license for direct selling after the government lifted a seven-year ban on the practice. 
 Interest rates were higher, with the 10-year Treasury note yielding 4.59 percent, up from 4.57 percent late Friday, and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, falling 4/32, to 99 9/32.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auctions of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.859	97.684	High Rate	 4.510	 4.580	Investment Rate	 4.625	 4.754	Low Rate	 4.470	 4.555	Median Rate	 4.490	 4.565	Total applied for	$49,628,859	$47,559,456	Accepted	$28,195,627	$26,024,093	Noncompetitive	$996,900	$948,100	

Both issues are dated March 02, 2006. The three-month bills mature on June 01, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 31, 2006.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing the results of a Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills misstated the amount awarded in noncompetitive bids. It was $2 billion for the three-month bills (not $997 million) and $1.6 billion for the six-month (not $948 million).
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing the results of a Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills misstated the amount awarded in noncompetitive bids. It was $2 billion for the three-month bills (not $997 million) and $1.6 billion for the six-month (not $948 million).

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since November. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); ROYALTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (56%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



607 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD 

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

CLASS CONSCIOUS -- United Airlines said that it was planning to put a new emphasis on its premium-class cabins domestically and internationally, while cutting spending on economy-class customers.
 ''We are judiciously taking money and investing it in the high-value customer and at the same time we are not spending any more than we have to on the low-value customer,'' Frederic F. Brace, United's chief financial officer, said last week in a speech to industry analysts sponsored by J. P. Morgan.
He said United planned to cut in-flight service for ''low-value customers who quite frankly don't value it and aren't willing to pay for it'' while improving amenities in first class, business class and premium economy. Premium economy is a coach section with better seats and service and slightly higher fares. 
 The airline will also put some emphasis on long-haul premium-class cabins, where foreign airlines dominate in customer-satisfaction surveys and product reviews. ''We are going to invest some money in our international premium product and at the same time'' trans-Atlantic and Latin American passengers will ''pay for their alcohol in coach,'' he said. 
 He said United had been especially happy with p.m., its premium service between New York and the West Coast, which he described as a ''low-density, high-service-level product that we find people are very willing to pay for.''

MORE SEATS, ESPECIALLY OVERSEAS -- At the same J. P. Morgan conference last week, Continental Airlines said it was adding seating capacity this year, both domestically and internationally. Most other major airlines have been slightly reducing overall capacity. But Continental said it was adding 3.6 percent more seats on domestic flights to battle incursions into its hub markets by discount carriers and was adding a substantial number of international seats in response to growing demand.
 United States airlines make far more money on international routes, where discount airliners have virtually no market share. Continental said it would increase seating on trans-Atlantic flights by 15 percent, seating on Latin American flights by 12 percent and trans-Pacific seating by 7.5 percent. 

MARKETING SECURITY -- Hyatt Hotels is offering free annual membership in the only currently operating Registered Traveler program. The membership is available to Gold Passport Diamond-level members of its loyalty program. The Registered Traveler program, in which travelers who pass a federal background check receive a special ID card encoded with personal biometric data, offers a special lane for expedited screening at airport checkpoints.
 Hyatt said it had entered a partnership with Verified Identity Pass Inc., which now operates the only Registered Traveler program, branded under the name Clear, in Orlando, where it has more than 15,000 members who pay an annual fee of $79.95. By summer, Verified Identity and several private-sector competitors are expected to be offering the program at about 40 large airports. Hyatt said guests who qualify would soon be able to enroll in Verified Identity's Clear program at some of its major hotels.

FLIGHTS DECLINE DOMESTICALLY -- No wonder the planes are all full. Departures by United States airlines on domestic flights continued to decrease in January, dropping 4.3 percent, to 412,000, from January of last year, says the Air Transport Association. The average load factor, the percentage of seats occupied by paying passengers, rose 1.9, to 74.5.

WHALE OF A PLANE -- Just how many people could be crammed onto the A380, the new Airbus superjumbo jet that is expected to start flying commercially late this year? So far, all of the airlines that have ordered A380's have said they will configure it with no more than about 550 seats.
 Singapore Airlines, which expects to start flying the first A380 in November, has said its A380's will be fitted with only about 475 seats. But Airbus has said -- and its rival Boeing takes great pleasure in pointing out -- that the plane can actually be fitted with 800 or more seats. And at the Asian Aerospace air show in Singapore last week, the potential capacity edged up again when John Leahy, Airbus's chief operating officer, told reporters that the company was considering a stretched version of the A380 that could hold 1,000 passengers. Airbus has 159 orders for the plane, none from United States carriers. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (87%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); MARKETING SURVEYS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (67%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (64%); BIOMETRICS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); FINGERPRINTING (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Fingerprinting; Identification Devices; Security and Warning Systems; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (80%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (72%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Continental Airlines; Hyatt Hotels Corp; Verified Identity Pass (Co); Air Transport Assn; Airbus Industrie

TICKER: H (NYSE) (80%); UAL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (80%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (80%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (72%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey; Frederic F Brace; John Leahy

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Orlando (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



608 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

BYLINE: By Henry Fountain

 BODY:

Better End of Life for Polystyrene
 From an environmental standpoint, polystyrene is far from a dream product. Close to 80 percent of the three million tons of the petrochemical plastic in the United States each year (much of it as foam coffee cups and takeout food containers) ends up in landfills, where it doesn't break down over time. Recycling is not an economical option.
 Scientists have long sought ways to make polystyrene more environmentally friendly. Researchers at the National University of Ireland and Hamburg University in Germany have come up with a new approach. If polystyrene itself is not biodegradable, they ask, can it be converted into something that is? 
 Their answer, to be published in the journal Environmental Science and Technology, is yes. And they've called on bacteria to do the converting.
 In the process, developed by Patrick G. Ward, Kevin E. O'Connor and colleagues, polystyrene is first converted to styrene oil by pyrolysis, heating the material to about 970 degrees Fahrenheit in the absence of oxygen. Then the oil is supplied to a strain of Pseudomonas putida bacteria as its sole source of food.
 The bacteria metabolize the oil and accumulate a different kind of polymer, known as PHA, that can be extracted. This plastic is biodegradable, but it also can be used in pressure-sensitive adhesives and plastic coatings. Since it breaks down, it has medical applications, as well, in materials for treating wounds or delivering drugs within the body.
 The researchers point out that pyrolysis can be used to convert many petrochemical products into oil, and there are many micro-organisms capable of accumulating PHA. So the process has potential to recycle other types of plastic waste.

Repugnant Repellent
 When was the last time you saw a mosquito bite a frog?
 Granted, you've probably never really looked, but some frogs, it turns out, produce a natural mosquito repellent in their skin. Before the compound could be used as a replacement for DEET, however, scientists would have to do something about the smell.
 The natural repellent was discovered in green tree frogs by C. R. Williams, a researcher at James Cook University in Australia, and colleagues. They applied skin secretions to mice and found that the mice were protected from mosquitoes for up to 50 minutes. The findings were published in Biology Letters.
 Frogs produce many kinds of chemicals in their skin, including the occasional poison that keeps predators at bay. So it is not surprising that some of these chemicals can ward off mosquitoes. The researchers are not sure what chemicals are doing the repelling but suggest that they may be terpenes. The researchers found that other species, including the ruddy tree frog, produced repellents, as well.
 The secretions were not as effective as DEET, the chemical used in many mosquito repellents. But that's not the real obstacle to using frog repellents on people. The odor is very pungent, and in the concentrations that would be required, very off-putting, to other people as well as mosquitoes.

Remote Repairs in Space
 For an orbiting telescope, stability is everything. So a year ago, when a NASA spacecraft, the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer, or FUSE, lost all but one of the four reaction wheels designed to keep it pointed at its targets, the mission seemed doomed to end prematurely.
 Scientists at Johns Hopkins, the primary operators of FUSE, are now reporting that the spacecraft is fixed, and after two months of testing is back close to its original level of performance, studying the chemical makeup of the universe.
 The remote repair job involved rewriting the spacecraft's direction-control software to make use of onboard controllable electromagnets called torque bars as well as the remaining reaction wheel. The electromagnets react with Earth's magnetic field to allow fine tuning of the spacecraft's orientation.

Alluring Swordtail Scent Is Lost in Pollution
 Good communication is important in any relationship. And if the communication lines are disrupted, trouble can ensue.
 Consider what has happened to sheepshead swordtails in the Rio Calnali in northeastern Mexico. When choosing a mating partner, females of this small fish species recognize males by odor -- chemicals that the males emit. But in recent years this chemical communication has been disrupted, with the result that many females have mated with males of a similar species, the highland swordtail, that has a different scent. A whole section of the river is now almost completely populated by hybrid offspring.
 ''We're trying to look at cues that might tell us what made these animals want to hybridize,'' said Heidi S. Fisher, a doctoral candidate at Boston University who has studied the fish.
 Ms. Fisher's work, published in The Proceedings of the Royal Society B, strongly suggests the culprit is humic acid, a complex compound that results from degrading organic matter and is normally considered benign.
 Working with her adviser, Gil G. Rosenthal, and with Bob B. M. Wong, Ms. Fisher tested whether female sheepsheads could choose between male sheepsheads and highlands in clean water, in water from the river and in clean water spiked with humic acid. Only in the clean water did the females show a preference for males of their species.
 In recent years, more untreated sewage and agricultural runoff has entered the Rio Calnali, providing plenty of organic matter for the production of humic acid. So ultimately, human activity created the conditions for hybridization to occur. It has continued, Ms. Fisher said, because the species are so closely related that their hybrids can reproduce. In fact, she said, ''they seem to reproduce just as well if not better than the parental species.'' 
 So the hybrids could take over even if water conditions were to return to normal. ''The initial disturbance, even if short-lived, created enough hybrids to have an impact,'' she said.
 The research also shows the value of using biology to detect environmental change. Analyzing the content of the water, for example, provides a measurement at only one point in time. But studying the effect on the fish gives a longer-term view. ''Looking at the biology, you can see that something happened a while ago and had a larger effect,'' Ms. Fisher said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); BACTERIA (90%); PETROCHEMICALS (90%); POLYSTYRENE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); RODENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (86%); POLYMERS (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); STYRENE (78%); FISHES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); BITES & STINGS (69%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (66%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Research; Polystyrene; Mosquitoes; Waste Materials and Disposal; Smell; Navigation; Frogs; Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer; Space; Fish and Other Marine Life; Waste Materials and Disposal; Sheepshead (Fish); Odors; Reproduction (Biological)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%) National University of Ireland; Hamburg University; Environmental Science and Technology (Journal); Cook, James, University; Biology Letters (Journal); Johns Hopkins University; Boston University; Proceedings of the Royal Society B (Journal)

PERSON: Henry Fountain; C R Williams; Heidi S Fisher

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%) Rio Calnali River (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



609 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Health&Fitness; A CONVERSATION WITH -- Debora Spar; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: An Economist Examines The Business Of Fertility

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
Four years ago, when Debora Spar, a political economist, began researching ''The Baby Business: How Money, Science and Politics Drive the Commerce of Conception,'' some of her colleagues at Harvard Business School wondered why she had picked a book topic as ''soft'' as the fertility industry. 
 Dr. Spar, a professor of business administration and an associate dean at the business school, disagreed, contending this $3-billion-dollar-a-year sector of the medical economy was ripe for research.
''The new technologies, particularly in vitro fertilization, have permitted us to do things we couldn't before,'' Dr. Spar, 42, said on a recent visit to New York City. ''Many of the once infertile can now make babies and people will pay almost anything to do that. But because this is so new, it's also unregulated, and a lot of the usual economic rules don't apply. To me, this is fascinating.'' Her book on the business has just been published. 
 As for her own family, Debora Spar is the mother of three school-age children, the youngest adopted, at age 6, from Russia. ''I wanted a little girl,'' she said. ''I had two children the old-fashioned way already, and the idea of trying adoption was very powerful.''

Q. Why write a book about the economics of fertility treatment?

A. In September of 2001 -- a bad time to publish a book -- I published ''Ruling the Waves'' about the evolution of the Internet. In it, I argued that every once in a while a radical new technology appears -- the telegraph, satellite television, the Internet -- where people get all excited, where there are no rules, and which creates new markets. Over time, these technologies become regulated because people want and need rules.
 As I talked about my book, people asked, ''What's the next technology that will have this?'' I became convinced it was reproductive medicine, which started only 30 years ago with the I.V.F.-facilitated birth of Louise Brown. 
 Reproductive technologies allow some people who previously couldn't have babies to do that. In almost every human society, perhaps 15 percent of the population is infertile, so there's always been a big demand for babies. Right now, the estimated average cost of producing a baby through these new treatments in the U.S. can be well over $50,000. 
 As I looked into it, I became convinced that reproductive technology was a market -- with supply, demand and price coming together in a transaction. As with the early Internet, where people were high on the lack of rules and eventually wanted protection against scammers and online pedophiles, I think we'll eventually want rules protecting the health of the women and babies.

Q. Isn't it a little cold to talk of infertility in economic terms?

A. But the baby business is a business. My argument is, We need to move away from the emotion that clouds this so that we can make better decisions.
 I think many in this market don't want to see it as related to science or medicine, which also clouds their thinking. If you look at the promotional materials of fertility clinics, it's all about ''family building'' and ''creating a child.'' It doesn't have a scientific feel to it. It's treated more as an intimate experience.

Q. At Columbia University, there are ads in the student newspaper offering to pay tall blondes with high SAT's $8,000 to $20,000 for eggs to be used by infertile couples. Is this a good price?

A. Hmm. I think the price for Harvard eggs is higher, around $25,000. There have been ads offering even $50,000 and $100,000 for ''exceptional eggs'' though no one's ever come forward to say they've gotten that much.
 The donor typically is young -- 20 to 21 years old. She's run up the credit card bills, and she doesn't want Mom and Dad to know. She sees these very pretty ads in the school newspaper and this seems like a good way to solve a problem. The concern is that we don't know the long-term effects of doing this. 
 For egg extractions in general, there have been a couple of instances of horrific side effects. There are lots of cases of smaller ones. When you take large doses of hormones to produce eggs -- either as a donor or an infertile woman -- you're going to have bloating, mood swings, discomfort. All this is manageable. But if you do that three or four times, are there longer-term effects we don't yet know about? 

Q. Do you worry about eugenic implications of Ivy League egg-shopping?

A. Yes. People sometimes do act as if they were picking from a salad bar. And yet, we know that most of the things people want in their children cannot be identified on a single gene. Intelligence? It's a combination of genes and environment.
 I am about to do a statistical study of sperm banks. What we know anecdotally is that for egg donors, it's more often looks that are the desired traits. From men, people seek intelligence and height. You cannot even think about donating sperm if you're a short man. The average height of a sperm donor is 5-10. The average height of an American male is nowhere near that.

Q. Why are fertility treatments so costly? Doesn't the price of a new technology come down after a while?

A. I think it's because the supply is still smaller than the demand. Infertile people are willing to pay almost anything. I would also argue that prices haven't come down as much as they should because this isn't treated like regular medicine.
 There's limited insurance coverage -- only 14 states include I.V.F. under some circumstances as part of medical insurance. In the other 36, the only way to get these treatments is to pay cash.
 The nationwide average for one cycle of I.V.F. is $12,400. If you are a 24-year-old woman with blocked fallopian tubes, one cycle will probably do it. If you are 48, you might get five or six cycles. At that age, the odds of success are something like 1 percent. Those women will go for three, four, five cycles, till the treatments work or the women give up. Some of these women will eventually look to adoption.

Q. Should fertility treatments be covered by insurance?

A. They do that in Denmark. But they've also considered some of the social issues that insurance brings up. The Danes say infertility is a medical condition for any woman under 40. Over that age, no coverage.
 If we insured consistently, we'd have to ask, At what point is a woman is too old to have a child? We'd have to ask if we want to cover homosexual couples who are technically infertile if they want to have babies with their partners. Now, no one wants to grapple with any of that.

Q. What was the most unexpected thing you learned working on your book?

A. Everyone I spoke to who had gone through these difficult processes -- high-tech reproduction, surrogacy, international adoption, donated eggs or sperm -- came out with a child that they were convinced was the only child that they were ever destined to have.
 No matter how they acquired that child and regardless of whether they had a genetic relationship to it, they saw it as theirs.
 To me, it shows that there's something in humans that connects us to our children and it goes even deeper than genetics alone.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW FRONTIER -- Debora Spar compares the fertility industry to the Internet. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (76%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (76%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) Reproduction (Biological); Books and Literature; Finances

PERSON: Claudia Dreifus; Debora (Prof) Spar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



610 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 604 words

PERSON: Dennis Weaver

HEADLINE: Dennis Weaver, 81, Sidekick on 'Gunsmoke'

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
Dennis Weaver, whose portrayal of Deputy Chester Goode in the classic television western ''Gunsmoke'' made him the favorite sidekick of the early television era, died on Friday at his home in Ridgway, Colo. He was 81.
 The cause was complications of cancer, said Julian Myers, his publicist. 
The lanky Mr. Weaver became famous for his limping deputy with a drawl, the buddy of Marshal Matt Dillon, a portrayal for which he won an Emmy in 1959. But he starred in nine television series. From 1955 to 1964, he was on ''Gunsmoke,'' the longest-running prime-time drama series on television. He also starred in ''Gentle Ben,'' from 1967 to 1969, playing Tom Wedloe, an Everglades ranger who adopts a black bear as a pet.
 He went from nerd to sex symbol in ''McCloud,'' playing Sam McCloud, a New Mexico deputy marshal on loan to the New York City police, who sometimes rode his horse through the city streets. ''McCloud,'' which was broadcast from 1970 to 1977, earned him two Emmy nominations. 
 Mr. Weaver also had leading roles in 40 motion pictures, including Orson Welles's 1958 film ''Touch of Evil,'' and the 1971 classic ''Duel,'' directed by a young Steven Spielberg, made for television but released theatrically in Europe. In it he played the prey of a murderous truck, with an unseen driver. 
 After growing up on a Missouri farm, Mr. Weaver served as a Naval Air Corps pilot, and he graduated with a degree in fine arts in theater from the University of Oklahoma. In 1948, he was a decathlon finalist in the United States Olympic trials. 
 He was in his 20's when he made his Broadway debut in ''Come Back, Little Sheba,'' which led to his signing a contract with Universal Studios and going to Hollywood. He did not hit it big in Hollywood, and during his struggle to make a living as an actor his jobs included selling pantyhose and delivering flowers. After playing a series of character actors, often in westerns, he landed the role of Chester Goode in ''Gunsmoke.'' 
 Mr. Weaver's long career ranged beyond acting. He released several country music albums and had a one-man show in which he played 19 different Shakespearean characters. At one time he had a comedy/variety stage show with his wife, Gerry, and son Rusty. He directed several episodes of various television shows, wrote poetry, and in 2001 his autobiography, ''All the World's a Stage,'' was published. 
 In 1982, with his wife and some friends, he founded an organization called Love Is Feeding Everyone, which fed more than 100,000 people in Los Angeles each week. In 1993, he and his wife founded a nonprofit group called the Institute of Ecolonomics -- a word Mr. Weaver coined from combining ecology and economics -- to find solutions to environmental problems. In 2003 the institute created a ''Drive to Survive'' campaign in which Mr. Weaver led a fleet of alterative-fuel vehicles on a cross-country tour to Washington to raise awareness about reducing the country's dependence on oil.
 Since 1990, Mr. Weaver and his wife had lived in an earthship: an almost 10,000-square-foot, solar-powered home in Ridgway constructed from about 3,000 recycled tires and 300,000 tin and aluminum cans. 
 From 1973 to 1975, Mr. Weaver was president of the Screen Actors Guild. In 1986 he received his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. For the last nine years he had been the host of Starz Entertainment's ''Westerns'' channel. His last role was as Henry Ritter, a grandfather in ''Wildfire,'' a dramatic series on the ABC Family Channel.
 Besides his wife, Gerry, and son Rusty, Mr. Weaver is survived by his sons Rick and Rob and three grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dennis Weaver, far left, with James Arness, in ''Gunsmoke.'' Above, Mr. Weaver brought the West to New York in ''McCloud.'' (Photo by NBC)
 (Photo by CBS, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); DEATHS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MARSHALS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (73%); FILM (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); TRACK & FIELD (70%); POLICE FORCES (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); OLYMPICS (63%); POETRY (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); THEATER (51%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%) Felicia R Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (74%)

CATEGORY: Popular Entertainers

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



611 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: A.F.L.-C.I.O. To Spend $40 Million On Election

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
With Republicans on the defensive over corruption, the A.F.L.-C.I.O's leaders said on Monday that there was a strong chance in this fall's elections to oust what they said were antiworker majorities in the House and Senate. 
 The union leaders voted to spend $40 million in the campaign, their most ever in a midterm election.
''The 2006 elections present a crucial opportunity for working people at a time when our country is at a tipping point,'' the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s leaders said in a resolution. ''In the House and the Senate, the opportunity exists to wrest control from the radically antiworker majorities that control both bodies.''
 Union leaders said they would concentrate their efforts on 15 Senate races, 40 House races and governors races in California, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
 ''This a unique situation,'' said Karen Ackerman, political director of the federation, a grouping of 52 unions and nine million workers. ''The political environment is very fluid. The Republicans are in disarray.''
 The $40 million is an increase from $35 million in the 2002 campaign even though the federation cut its budget by 25 percent after four unions quit last year. The money will not be used for contributions, but to mobilize union members.
 Insisting that the federation was nonpartisan, John J. Sweeney, the president, stopped short of saying he favored Democrats over Republicans, although he said Democrats usually took a better stance on worker issues. In the past, Mr. Sweeney has called President Bush the most antiworker president ever, citing his tax cuts favoring the wealthy and his efforts to revamp Social Security.
 Tracey Schmitt, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, said: ''The A.F.L.-C.I.O. can throw money at Democrats' campaigns, but the truth is their support of failed policies and failed candidates has been rejected by voters year after year. Millions of hardworking Americans have benefited under this president's economic policies.''
 At the federation's annual winter meeting, leaders adopted a tougher stance on trade. They called for an across-the-board surcharge on all imports, a move they said would reduce the record trade deficit. They said trade rules permitted such a move when a nation's balance of payments is out of control.
 Ms. Ackerman said that even though several major unions withdrew from the federation last year those unions were likely to cooperate closely with it on Senate, House and governors' races.
 Labor leaders asserted that Democrats would be more effective if they did more to emphasize pocketbook issues, like soaring health costs and threats to pensions.
 ''The Democrats have been working on this,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''I don't think they're there yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); TAX LAW (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Organized Labor; Finances

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



612 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Colombia Reach Trade Deal After 2 Years of Talks

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
After nearly two years of negotiations, the United States and Colombia agreed Monday to a trade deal that would be the largest Washington has concluded with a Latin American country since signing a free trade pact with Mexico in 1993. 
 The pact was a rare victory in Latin America for the Bush administration, which in the last two years has had to redirect efforts away from fashioning a 34-country trade bloc to negotiating deals with individual countries. Big players like Brazil have balked at talks because of hurdles like American farm subsidies, while Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, has led the charge against free trade on ideological grounds.
 President Bush signed a pact with Central America last summer, and American negotiators concluded a trade deal with Peru in December. The United States is working on a pact with Ecuador, which is under pressure now that its two much larger neighbors have reached agreements. American officials would like to bundle the three countries -- at the moment beneficiaries of trade preferences that expire in December -- into one pact, though prospects for doing so and presenting the agreement for Congressional approval before the end of the year appear dim.
 ''It's a revealing sign that these deals keep going forward one by one absent major movement on a hemispheric basis,'' said Cynthia Arnson, director of the Latin America Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington. 
 The deal with Colombia is important because the country's economic output, which tops $100 billion, is bigger than that of any other country in the region that has a trade deal with the administration. Two-way trade between the countries was $14.3 billion last year -- with American exports to Colombia at $5.4 billion. 
 The United States, which has provided Colombia with nearly $5 billion to fight drugs and Marxist rebels since 2000, also has an interest in seeing President Alvaro Uribe succeed. 
 However, Lori Wallach, director of Global Trade Watch, part of the advocacy group Public Citizen, said the deal battered generic drug makers in Colombia and important agricultural sectors like chicken, wheat and rice. It also permits American companies to bid on public services contracts, a delicate issue in Latin America, where there has been criticism of foreign conglomerates running services like water.
 ''It's a model that's very useful for a very narrow set of U.S. interests,'' Ms. Wallach said. Three members of Colombia's intellectual property rights negotiating team quit last year, citing American intransigence. Opponents of the deal have pledged to fight it as the American and Colombian Congresses begin debate.
 While some Colombian producers, like growers of flowers, would benefit, several sectors worry that American agricultural products would swamp Colombia. That could displace farm workers, who might turn to illegal drug crops, like coca, the leaf used to make cocaine.
 Rice growers, who are found in much of the country, say they expect to be put out of business eventually. 
 ''Our worry is that with the disappearance of rice, there will be more cultivation of coca,'' said Rafael Hernandez, head of the rice growers association. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FARM LABOR (76%); RICE FARMING (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); APPROVALS (70%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (67%); COCAINE (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); GENERIC DRUGS (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (62%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); DRUG POLICY (50%) International Trade and World Market; Treaties

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); ALVARO URIBE (58%) Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); PERU (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Colombia; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



613 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Schumer and Bloomberg Clash on Ground Zero Plan

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg clashed yesterday over competing visions for rebuilding ground zero in a rare display of tension between two of the state's most powerful politicians. 
 Senator Schumer said the mayor's proposal to build apartments and a hotel at ground zero instead of office space ''does not make sense'' and reflected a ''lack of confidence in downtown.'' He called on the Bloomberg administration to commit $1.75 billion in tax-exempt financing, known as Liberty Bonds, to commercial development at ground zero.
Mr. Schumer also demanded that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey move its offices to the Freedom Tower, the most symbolic and expensive of five proposed office towers, and abandon its efforts to move to another tower at ground zero, which he said was better suited for corporate tenants. 
 Reacting to Mr. Schumer's remarks, Mr. Bloomberg immediately rejected the suggestions, using the more combative tone that has become a hallmark of his nascent second term.
 ''We're not going to put Liberty Bonds into something that would, two or three years from now, come to a grinding halt,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a City Hall news conference. ''And I think the time to address this issue is before construction starts, right now, not when you're halfway done.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said that the fundamental problem at ground zero would remain even if the Port Authority became the anchor tenant at the Freedom Tower: not ''enough money to make this project move forward.''
 The city recently issued a report concluding that Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who controls the lease at the World Trade Center site, would run out of money for the project in 2009, then default on his lease and walk away with hundreds of millions of dollars in profit.
 Neither Mr. Bloomberg nor Mr. Schumer has a seat at the table in the bitter negotiations under way. But Mr. Bloomberg has increasingly moved to insert himself in the debates about the rebuilding of downtown, which is largely controlled by Gov. George E. Pataki and the Port Authority, which owns the site.
 To that end, Mr. Bloomberg also opened up another front yesterday in his critique of the progress of the ground zero rebuilding effort, saying he hoped that the people involved in the fund-raising for the memorial there were up to the ambitious task of raising what may be $1 billion for the project.
 ''The city has lots of obligations,'' he said, ''and if the plans require the city to come up with money, we're going to have to work through that.''
 The sparring between the mayor and the senator came as something of a surprise, considering that the two have enjoyed a good relationship despite belonging to different parties. The mayor's transportation commissioner, Iris Weinshall, incidentally, is married to Mr. Schumer. Mr. Schumer has long argued that the trade center site should remain a commercial center.
 ''We are at yet another point where all parties must put aside their differences, come together to find a solution that will allow Lower Manhattan to get back on its feet, and become an economic engine once again for this great city,'' Mr. Schumer said yesterday to a breakfast forum sponsored by the Association for a Better New York.
 His comments came just slightly more than two weeks before the March 14 deadline, imposed by Governor Pataki, for Mr. Silverstein and the Port Authority to resolve their differences over who will build what at the site, and when. 
 Mr. Pataki, who is considering a run for president when his term ends in December, has insisted on an April groundbreaking for the Freedom Tower, which is expected to cost more than $2 billion.
 Behind the scenes, John P. Cahill, the governor's chief of staff, has been trying to broker a deal in time for the deadline, although Port Authority executives say that little progress has been made so far. 
 In a statement released yesterday, Lynn Krogh, a spokeswoman for the governor, embraced Mr. Schumer's proposals. ''We're glad that Senator Schumer agrees that all the remaining Liberty Bonds should be dedicated to ground zero, that it is appropriate to house government offices in the Freedom Tower and that construction should commence on an expedited basis,'' she said.
 Mr. Schumer did not spare Mr. Silverstein from criticism either. He called on Mr. Silverstein to slash his development fee in half, a notion that could cost the developer more than $150 million, and adhere to strict construction deadlines for building five towers there. At the same time, he called for an independent auditor to assess Mr. Silverstein's ability to complete rebuilding.
 As he was leaving the breakfast meeting where Mr. Schumer spoke, Mr. Silverstein, who contends that he is willing and able to build four towers at ground zero, said he could not be more supportive of recommendations that he get all the remaining Liberty Bonds to rebuild the towers and that the Port Authority should serve as the anchor tenant for the Freedom Tower.
 Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority, with support from Mayor Bloomberg, has proposed his own solution for speeding up the rebuilding process and dealing with the financial shortfalls at the site.
 He said Mr. Silverstein should proceed with building the 2.6-million-square-foot Freedom Tower and a second tower but relinquish control of two other building sites on Church Street and a major portion of the site in exchange for a drastic reduction in rent, which is now $140 million a year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer at Port Newark yesterday. He also spoke at a breakfast in New York. (Photo by Marko Georgiev/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); TAX LAW (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); Finances; Liberty Bonds

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: World Trade Center (NYC); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Charles V Bagli; Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



614 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says Bush Adviser Obsesses About Her and '08

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Raymond Hernandez contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton took a swipe at the White House on Monday, saying that Karl Rove, the president's political adviser, ''spends a lot of time obsessing about me.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton's comments came during an interview with an Albany radio station, after she was asked about a new book that quotes Mr. Rove as saying she is certain to be the Democratic presidential candidate in 2008.
''I don't know where he gets his information from,'' Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Rove during the interview on WROW-AM. ''If I were thinking about this, I'd say, 'Why are they spending so much time talking about me?' ''
 In ''Strategery,'' a book released on Monday by Bill Sammon, a White House reporter for The Washington Examiner, Mr. Rove is quoted as calling Mrs. Clinton ''the dominant player on their side of the slate.''
 ''Anybody who thinks that she's not going to be the candidate is kidding themselves,'' Mr. Rove is quoted as saying in the book. Mr. Rove is also quoted saying that he believes Mrs. Clinton would have a tough time in the general elections because of a ''brittleness about her.'' 
 When pressed to add more about her strategy and future, Mrs. Clinton demurred, saying that she was focusing on winning re-election this fall.
 Republicans, Mrs. Clinton said, are hoping ''that all of their missteps, which are now numbering in the hundreds, are going to somehow be overlooked because people, instead of focusing on the '06 election, will jump ahead and think about the next one,'' she said during the radio interview. 
 A spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, Tracey Schmitt, said, ''Senator Clinton would be better served if she spent less time flattering herself with perceived obsession and more time focusing on her job.''
 Mr. Rove has reportedly spent some time courting possible challengers to Mrs. Clinton. Last fall, Edward F. Cox, who was considering a bid to run against Mrs. Clinton, said that he had received an e-mail from Mr. Rove saying that ''we have to do something about her,'' referring to Mrs. Clinton. 
 Mr. Cox, a lawyer who is married to Tricia Nixon, later decided not to challenge Mrs. Clinton. 
 Earlier this month, John Spencer, the former mayor of Yonkers and the only declared Republican candidate for the Senate, said he had met with Mr. Rove's aides at the White House. 
 Later on Monday, as Mrs. Clinton spoke to hundreds of municipal officials gathering for a conference in Albany, the senator zeroed in on local issues like economic development and the declining populations in upstate New York. She continued to assail the Bush administration's proposal to allow a Dubai company to take over operations at six American ports.
 ''I want to keep focused on what's actually going on,'' she said. ''We have a lot of serious problems right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking on Medicare yesterday. (Photo by Mitch Wojnarowicz/Amsterdam Recorder via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%) Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: KARL ROVE (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%) Jennifer Medina; Karl Rove; George W (Pres) Bush; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



615 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Ports Argument and Iraq Hurt Bush in a New Survey 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and MARJORIE CONNELLY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Americans are strongly opposed to the Bush administration's agreement to allow a Dubai company to operate terminals at six American ports and are increasingly negative about the situation in Iraq, according to the latest CBS News poll. 
 Seventy percent, including 58 percent of Republicans, said Dubai Ports World, a company controlled by the emir of Dubai, should not be permitted to operate at United States ports, while 21 percent supported the arrangement.
In addition, 62 percent of those polled said the efforts to bring stability and order to Iraq were going badly, up from 54 percent last month.
 The port agreement and the pessimism on Iraq appear to be significant factors in driving Mr. Bush's approval ratings back down to the lowest levels of his presidency. In the poll, 34 percent approved of how he is handling his job, down eight points from a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in January.
 Mr. Bush's latest job performance rating is the lowest measured for him in a poll conducted by The Times or CBS News, though virtually indistinguishable from the 35 percent job approval in a CBS poll last October.
 There has been a decline in Mr. Bush's support even among Republicans. In the January Times/CBS News poll, 83 percent of Republicans approved of the way he was handling his job; in the latest poll 72 percent approve. Approval among self-identified conservatives also dropped to 52 percent, from 62 percent.
 A decline in the president's job performance rating was halted late last fall by positive economic news, the Iraqi elections, the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. and a public relations effort to improve his image. But the latest poll shows that the ratings for his overall handling of the job, as well as his management of the economy, Iraq and the campaign against terrorism, have all dropped.
 On Iraq, 30 percent said they approved of his management of the situation there and 65 percent disapproved. In January, 37 percent of the public approved. In addition, 36 percent said things were going well in Iraq, down from 45 percent in January.
 Republicans are over all more positive about the work in Iraq than Democrats, with 65 percent saying that things are going well there for the United States. But that number was still down from 76 percent in January.
 Previous presidents have had similar or worse numbers as their nadirs. The Gallup Poll had a 24 percent approval rating for Richard M. Nixon in July 1974. The low point for Jimmy Carter in polls conducted by The Times and CBS News was 26 percent in July 1979. Times/CBS News polls showed George Bush with 34 percent in June 1992 and Bill Clinton with 36 percent in September 1994.
 The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Wednesday through Sunday with 1,018 adults and has an overall margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The margin of sampling error is larger for subgroups and for comparisons between polls.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Falling Approval''Percentage who approve of the way George W. Bush is handling his job as President.Graph tracks percent who approve of the way George W. Bush is handing his job as President since 2001.Feb. 22-26: 34%(Source by Based on nationwide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. The latest poll was conducted Feb. 22-26 by CBS News with 1,012 adults)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (88%); POLITICS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (63%); COUNTERTERRORISM (62%); TERRORISM (62%) United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Ships and Shipping; Ports; United States Politics and Government; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Cbs Corp

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Marjorie Connelly

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Dubai

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006



616 of 616 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: The Turnpike As a Career Path

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Of all the jobs in New Jersey politics, one of the most demanding may well be the position of personal driver -- the behind-the-wheel assistant who must deliver the candidate on time and without incident to Main Street parades, chicken dinner fund-raisers, back-room meetings and other stops in between.
 The pay is bad. The hours are worse. And the diet is usually drive-through. Still, volunteers are never in short supply, because so many drivers have parlayed their on-the-road experiences into better jobs higher up the ladder of politics or public service.
Former Justice Peter G. Verniero of the New Jersey Supreme Court was fresh out of college when he signed on as Thomas H. Kean's driver in the 1981 campaign for governor. 
 Assemblyman Bill Baroni was also just out of college when he drove a car dubbed the Chuckwagon in the unsuccessful campaign of Chuck Haytaian, the former Assembly speaker, for the United States Senate in 1994. 
 Scott L. Kisch came to the job later in life, after serving in the Marines and working in public relations. He ended up as Jon S. Corzine's one and only driver until the state police took over the duties when Mr. Corzine left the Senate to become governor. 
 ''He's as close a counselor as I've had,'' Mr. Corzine said of Mr. Kisch, who is now chief of staff for the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission. ''It's an important role to have an alter ego that you can be secure in, and you care about what they have to say.''
 In politics, more than in most pursuits, there are many examples of young drivers who used their experience to blaze their way to success. Bill Clinton was a driver in the 1968 re-election campaign of one of his home-state senators, J. William Fulbright. Pete Wilson, later the governor of California, drove Richard M. Nixon when the former vice president unsuccessfully ran for governor in 1962. Bernard Kerik, a future New York City police commissioner, was a volunteer driver for Rudolph W. Giuliani's first campaign for mayor. And Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, now the House chief deputy majority whip, started his career as a college intern, then a campaign driver, for former Representative Tom Bliley, also from Virginia.
 The importance of a driver resonates all the more in New Jersey, a state often defined by its traffic and toll roads. Because the state can be traversed in less than four hours, the car is the preferred method of transit -- in contrast to New York, for instance, where politicians routinely rely on planes and trains to shuttle between New York, Buffalo and Albany.
 What makes the car even more indispensable in New Jersey are a profusion of official and partisan events related to the state's multilayered thicket of government: 566 municipalities, 21 counties, hundreds of boards and commissions. 
 ''For the right person, it can be a steppingstone,'' said Alan Marcus, a veteran Republican lobbyist. ''You are in close proximity to the candidate and have plenty of opportunity to make a positive impression. But for the wrong person, it's the worst, because a lot of these candidates or office holders treat the driver like he's nobody, and all they say is, 'You're driving too fast! You're driving too slow!' '' For the politician in the back seat (or, in the case of Mr. Corzine, the front, since he considered Mr. Kisch more of a confidant than a chauffeur), having a driver eliminates the potential embarrassment of getting stopped for speeding, or something worse. The Star-Ledger of Newark recently surveyed the driving records of all 120 state legislators, and found that 26 had their licenses or registrations suspended, including five who were found to be driving drunk.
 With someone else at the wheel -- it is almost always a man, sometimes an assistant doubling as the driver -- political candidates or government officials can read briefing papers and newspapers. Concentrate on making phone calls. Take a nap. Or eat.
 ''You could say that we ate our way through the state,'' said Mr. Baroni, who changed his lifestyle after Mr. Haytaian's campaign and eventually lost 130 pounds.
 In the annals of New Jersey drivers, the most unconventional may have been John Spagnola, who while still a student at Yale drove Bill Bradley during his 1978 campaign for the Senate. Mr. Spagnola later played for the Philadelphia Eagles, and he is now a managing director in Philadelphia for a financial consulting firm. 
 Jeff Tittel drove former state Senator Alexander J. Menza of Union County, and is now the director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club.
 Mr. Kean, meanwhile, hired not only Mr. Verniero but also William J. Palatucci, who became the state Republican Party's finance chairman. ''The car was our sanctuary,'' recalled Mr. Verniero, who also served as the state attorney general. ''It was our home away from home.''
 If Mr. Kean was low-key, his polar opposite was former United States Senator Robert G. Torricelli. In an interview, he described the driver as ''the burn-out job of politics,'' and said that he probably changed his driver and press secretary every six months. ''I probably drove them harder than most,'' he said.
 Once, according to several former assistants, Mr. Torricelli became upset that a driver had become lost in Newark. So he kicked him out of the car, drove off by himself and earned a reputation as, well, the ultimate back-seat driver.
 ''If it's true, I don't remember it,'' he laughed. ''But it's a great political legend.''
 And yet, the intensity and intimacy of the car forges strong bonds. On occasion, that intimacy has attracted the interest of prosecutors. Federal agents wired the car of a former Hudson County executive, Robert Janiszewski, who was convicted of extortion.
 Several of Mr. Torricelli's former drivers still work closely with him, while others say that the experience toughened their political hide. 
 The alumni include Eric Shuffler (former counselor to Gov. Richard J. Codey); James P. Fox (chief of staff to Gov. James E. McGreevey and now deputy executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey); Paul Fader (chief counsel under Mr. Codey); and Joseph A. Fiordaliso (now the chief of staff at the state's Department of Transportation.)
 ''I wouldn't trade it for anything in the world,'' said Mr. Shuffler, now a political consultant.
 For Mr. Kisch, 40, the chance to serve Mr. Corzine was enhanced by their ties to the Marines. Mr. Kisch, an Annapolis graduate, is a former officer and Mr. Corzine had enlisted in the Reserves. They also shared the status of political outsiders, being socially liberal in professions dominated by conservatives.
 After Mr. Kisch served as deputy campaign manager in 1999, Mr. Corzine asked him to be his driver and on-the-road adviser, at an annual salary of $90,000, eclipsing the usual driver's figure of $30,000 to $40,000.
 When Mr. Kisch was driving the senator, the back seat of Mr. Corzine's sports utility vehicle doubled as a mobile library, with the 9/11 Commission Report and state and federal budgets part of the permanent collection. Mr. Corzine read so much that the upholstery was stained with newspaper ink. On the telephone, Mr. Corzine was steady but firm. Rarely did he lose his cool. ''He's a count-to-10 kind of guy,'' said Mr. Kisch. ''He keeps an even keel. But if, by chance, he forgets, he's got me there to remind him.''
 These days, even though they do not see each other as much, Mr. Kisch said that he can still offer something that all friends and employers treasure: discretion.
 ''He knows I'll never write the book that I could write,'' said Mr. Kisch, who also lives in the same building in Hoboken as Mr. Corzine. ''I get credit not only for what I do, but what I prevent.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey chatted recently with his former longtime driver, Scott L. Kisch, who now is chief of staff of a state commission. (Photo by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Scott L. Kisch, a former driver for Governor Corzine, is the chief of staff of the state's Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MAYORS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PARADES & MARCHES (57%); POLICE FORCES (56%) Chauffeurs and Drivers

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (56%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) David W Chen; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Scott L Kisch

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2006

 
