

401 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: When a Campaign Intrudes on Vacation

BYLINE: By Elisabeth bumiller

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush has spent the last three Augusts at his ranch in the scorched flatlands of Crawford, Tex., where he has cleared brush, gone for runs in 105-degree heat and summoned sweaty cabinet members to eat fried jalapeno peppers at the only restaurant in town. No one ever confused the place with that white-wine-swilling island in the Atlantic Ocean, to reprise the president's put-down of Martha's Vineyard, and so Mr. Bush has loved it all the more.
 But this year, the 2004 campaign has ruined Mr. Bush's Texas vacation. Or put another way, if Mr. Bush doesn't give up a lot of his summer holiday, the fear at the White House is that he could be on a permanent one after the first of the year. 
 ''The decision was made awhile ago,'' a Bush adviser said Friday. ''The president will spend a good portion of his time traveling in August as we head toward the convention.'' The adviser spoke on condition of anonymity because the president's August schedule is still in some flux. 
 Final details are to come, but the bottom line is that Mr. Bush will spend only two weeks at the ranch compared with his usual four. He will be there the last part of July, when the Democrats are at their convention in Boston and the Republican candidate traditionally lays low. He will also be there for less than a week in late August, around the height of the Olympics, when the White House expects Athens to drown out the bleat of the presidential campaign.
 ''It's one final opportunity to have a little down time before the final sprint to the finish line,'' the adviser said.
 As with all decisions at the White House, politics was paramount. In a summer when Michael Moore's film ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' is attacking Mr. Bush for spending 42 percent of his first eight months in office on vacation instead of worrying about Al Qaeda (Mr. Moore's calculation came from The Washington Post), the image of Mr. Bush lazing away August on his 1,600 acres was not one that Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, particularly relished.
 Still, there was debate over Mr. Bush's vacation within the White House. One group argued that the president should do whatever he wanted, while another, including Mr. Rove, said in essence that he should not. As far as can be told, no one did any polling, unlike Bill Clinton's former adviser Dick Morris, who incurred the president's wrath in 1995 when he went so far as to suggest that his surveys showed a presidential camping vacation would play well with swing voters.
 ''Can I golf?'' Mr. Morris wrote in his memoirs that Mr. Clinton sarcastically replied. ''Maybe if I wear a baseball cap?''
 At this White House, Mr. Rove's views, which may well have been the president's views, prevailed, to no one's surprise. ''What Karl advocated happened,'' said a Republican close to the White House. ''I don't think any voting decision is going to be made on what the president did for three weeks in August, but there are people who believe very strongly that it created the wrong visuals. They didn't want those pictures.''
 The plan is now for Mr. Bush to campaign all-out starting immediately after the Democrats leave Boston, when he will try to batter back what the Republicans expect to be John Kerry's post-convention bounce. White House officials say that Mr. Bush may use the ranch as an occasional overnight stop for campaign swings to Western states, and that he will also spend a weekend at his parents' summer home in Maine to attend the wedding of his nephew George P. Bush. Otherwise, the president will be based in Washington.
 The last time Mr. Bush was running for president, he opened August at the Republican convention in Philadelphia and spent most of the rest of the month in a campaign sprint across the country. The Bushes had bought their Crawford ranch the year before, in 1999, and during the 2000 campaign were still building their house on the land. Mr. Bush did not vacation at the ranch until the following August in a 27-day idyll that was attacked by the Democrats. Later it became a symbol of what critics said was the administration's sleepiness before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which occurred less than two weeks after the president returned from Texas.
 But Mr. Bush still spent 27 days at the ranch in August 2002 and 29 days there in August 2003. (The numbers are courtesy of Mark Knoller of CBS News, whose records rival those of the White House.) Mr. Bush's pattern in those years was to disappear for the first week of vacation, reappear to attend an economic forum (2002) or to look at damage from forest fires (2002 and 2003), disappear again, then re-emerge for a few more political trips and a fund-raising swing through California.
 This year, there has been no word on Mr. Bush's mood about his truncated vacation. When asked if the president was complaining, the adviser crisply replied that he was ''very energized by the campaign.''
 One thing is certain: as much as Mr. Bush likes his ranch, he likes winning more.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's campaign team has decided he will campaign more and vacation less this August. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); CAMPING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (79%); BILL CLINTON (59%) Elisabeth Bumiller; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Karl Rove

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Crawford (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



402 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Union Square Journal; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Interests and Ideals Meet, And Usually Get Along

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
Lauren Grasch strolled through Union Square Park one day recently, intending to buy flowers, when she bumped into a member of ''Billionaires for Bush,'' the satirical group that, despite its name, opposes the president. 
 Ms. Grasch, 25, an event planner with liberal leanings, had been looking for a way to get involved before the election, and the group's humor appealed to her. So on a whim, she volunteered. 
 A week later, she was back in the park, transformed into one of the ''Billionaires'' -- the mistress of events for New York -- complete with a flapper-era dress and elbow-length gloves. 
 The inspiration for her involvement and her character came, she said, from nothing more than a stroll through the park. 
 ''There's an open forum here,'' she said on Saturday, a lengthy cigarette-holder in hand. ''It allows people to hear what others are saying.''
 After serving as an impromptu memorial in the days after Sept. 11, Union Square Park became a gathering spot for those affected by the tragedy. Now the park is being transformed once again -- this time, into a commercial and political hub. 
 On any given weekend, the 3.5-acre park is host to more than a dozen issue-oriented groups. CD vendors bump up against Jews for Jesus, as fans of Ralph Nader compete for attention with Socialist Workers Party volunteers. 
 And the crowd of solicitors is growing. On Saturday, new tables with recruiters for John Kerry's presidential campaign and the AIDS group Act Up appeared, and yesterday, a wellness festival -- the first ever held by Tendu magazine -- swarmed the area with 30 vendors and a stage in the middle of the park for lectures and public pilates. 
 ''Every week, there's something else,'' said John Contino, founder of Mighty Mutts, an animal adoption agency that has been appearing on the park's southwest corner since 1994. ''There used to be a special event once a month. Now it's all the time.''
 Much of the activity echoes the park's past. In 1865, thousands gathered on the oval slice of land where Broadway and Park Avenue South meet just above 14th Street to celebrate Civil War victories. 
 On March 6, 1930, 35,000 unemployed workers gathered to hear speakers denounce capitalism, and a generation later, the park played host to Trotskyites, civil rights rallies and anti-Vietnam be-ins.
 This time, however, the park has become a venue where competing ideas, groups and vendors vie for attention but somehow get along. The political activists tend to lean left, but differ on candidates or tactics. 
 For example, at the south end of the park on Saturday, Claudia Logan, 52, and Karen Nachbar, 31, registered voters at a table adorned with blue John Kerry signs. A few feet away, Jerry Kann wandered with a clipboard, aiming to get enough signatures to put Mr. Nader on the ballot in November. He stood only a few feet from Ruth Robinett, 58, who hoped to grab a few signatures of her own, for local Socialist candidates.
 There were also volunteers asking for people to donate $18 a month to support a poor child abroad, and a pair of musicians trying to collect a few bucks of their own. 
 By 4:30, Jason Blank was holding a 30-foot-wide banner declaring ''Stop the Police State'' and railing against New York Police Department officers driving by. Less than a block away, on the eastern edge of the park, two patrolmen spent the afternoon signing up recruits for the city's police exam. 
 The officers, Alex Kitsakos and Israel Linares, seemed unperturbed by the park's almost circuslike atmosphere. When someone dressed as a 10-foot white bowling pin walked by -- an advertisement for Bowlmor.com -- Officer Kitsakos yelled, ''Hey you want to do something different?'' 
 Both officers said they come to the park simply because it yields results. Between 100 and 150 people sign up for the exam during a typical afternoon in Union Square, they said, making it one of the most successful recruiting locations in Manhattan. ''It does great,'' Officer Linares said, standing in front of a flag-painted van. ''There are universities nearby. There's a great diversity of people who come here, and there are even tourists who come through and want to take the exam.''
 Members of other groups also said that their presence was largely pragmatic. Ms. Nachbar, a neighborhood resident who decided to set up the John Kerry table a few days earlier, said that the park lets everyone piggyback on the popularity of Saturday's farmer's market, which attracts shoulder-to-shoulder crowds from all over the city. Mr. Contino, the Mighty Mutts veteran, said that the park also benefited from its location at the hub of the L, N, Q, R, W, 4, 5 and 6 subway lines. ''It's not east; it's not west,'' he said. ''People come from all sides.''
 And according to vendors and weekend activists, the city's Department of Parks and Recreation also deserves some credit. In 1985, the south end of the park was expanded to include a wide concrete set of stairs -- the spot occupied on Saturday by Mr. Blank's antipolice banner and a group of Brazilian dancers. In 2002, further renovations added space on the southwest corner, where artists, musicians and activists now congregate. 
 Since 9/11, police and park officials have tended to be slightly more lenient with crowd control. Noise, from megaphones or live music -- which played for hours in the park during last August's blackout -- often goes overlooked. 
 ''The advantage of the south steps is that it's not directly in front of people's homes -- unlike other parks,'' said the city's parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe. The surrounding buildings are commercial, he said, making it ''a space where you can let it go a little bit more than usual.''
 There are critics of the lax approach, including Mr. Contino, who says that the noise makes it hard to catch the attention of pedestrians. 
 But most people seem to enjoy the park as a center of public expression. Even after failing to recognize that Billionaires for Bush was a group of satirists rather than wealthy Republicans, Lynne Watson, a computer graphics designer who lives in Greenwich Village, said she welcomed the park's latest incarnation. ''They need this kind of space in New York City,'' she said. ''It's nice to know that there's a spot to come and express yourself.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters used wide banners and a lenient noise policy to promote free speech. ''There's an open forum here,'' said one.
 A health and wellness festival, left, and a group's protest of President Bush's policies were among the weekend activities at Union Square Park. (Photographs by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); RIOTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); AIDS & HIV (51%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Police; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: JEWS FOR JESUS (54%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Union Square Park (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004



403 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: '94 Deal With North Korea Holds Lessons for Today

BYLINE: By GRAHAM ALLISON. 
Graham Allison is director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. His book ''Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe'' will be published next month.

 BODY:

GOING CRITICAL
The First North Korean Nuclear Crisis
By Joel S. Wit, Daniel B. Poneman and Robert L. Gallucci
Illustrated. 474 pages. Brookings Institution Press. $32.95.
 As Henry A. Kissinger has noted, a defining challenge for statesmen is to recognize ''a change in the international environment so likely to undermine national security that it must be resisted no matter what form the threat takes or how ostensibly legitimate it appears.''
 North Korea's acquisition of a nuclear arsenal would constitute just such a transformation for the United States. Thus the stark contrast between the Clinton administration's frenetic intervention that froze North Korea's nuclear program in 1994 and the Bush administration's paralysis since North Korea withdrew from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in early 2003 offers powerful lessons not just about history but about political choices today.
 ''Going Critical: The First North Korean Nuclear Crisis'' presents an authoritative account of the 1994 deal with North Korea, known as the Agreed Framework, by three participants in the negotiations. Robert L. Gallucci served as chief negotiator of the Agreed Framework, with his co-authors, Joel S. Wit at the State Department and Daniel B. Poneman at the National Security Council fine-tuning the nuts and bolts. Their book provides a gold mine of previously undisclosed decision memorandums, cabinet meeting minutes and scribbled notes from talks with the North Koreans.
 On this level alone it is an indispensable complement to other notable books on this confrontation, including Leon V. Sigal's excellent ''Disarming Strangers: Nuclear Diplomacy With North Korea,'' Selig S. Harrison's provocative ''Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement'' and James M. Minnich's lesser-known but valuable ''Denuclearization of North Korea.'' The new book also provides a lively and engaging look into the inner workings of United States foreign policy making that is sure to captivate North Korea specialists and general readers alike.
 ''Going Critical'' addresses the four central questions about the 1994 Agreed Framework:
 First, did it prevent the production of additional nuclear weapons? Yes. During the eight years stretching from the agreement to the second North Korean nuclear crisis in October 2002, North Korea's program to reprocess plutonium for nuclear weapons -- beyond the one or two the C.I.A. estimated Pyongyang produced during the first Bush administration -- remained frozen.
 Second, was this freeze obtained at an acceptable price? Critics objected that in signing the Agreed Framework the United States yielded to extortion. The authors labor artfully to find a more flattering description of the deal. But since the economic costs were paid principally by South Korea and Japan, and prevented creation of additional nuclear weapons that could be sold to the highest bidder, they say that historians will judge that a bargain.
 Third, did the parties comply? On this question the authors are as quick to describe North Korean duplicity as they are reluctant to acknowledge Washington's. In truth neither side intended to comply fully, and neither did. 
 Pyongyang promised ultimately to dismantle its nuclear facilities and leave the Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons, but did neither. The American-led consortium committed to build two proliferation-resistant nuclear-power reactors by 2003 but did not. The United States also pledged to move toward normalization of relations with North Korea. Though the European Union, Canada, Australia and New Zealand all established diplomatic relations with Pyongyang during the same time period, Washington did not.
 Fourth, did North Korea's secret unranium-enrichment program, discovered in October 2002, violate the framework? The authors marshall evidence for the case that it did. But if this were a matter of tax law, North Korean lawyers would argue at least as persuasively that while pursuit of this second track to nuclear weapons was inconsistent with the spirit of the framework, it did not breach the strict letter of the law.
 In sum ''Going Critical'' reminds us that while the Agreed Framework was imperfect, it succeeded in stopping North Korea from reprocessing 8,000 fuel rods that would have otherwise provided plutonium for six additional nuclear bombs. In contrast, despite its curtsey to United States allies in recent six-party talks, the Bush administration has for more than three years followed a strange strategy of ''no carrots and no sticks.'' As Vice President Dick Cheney summarized the administration's position on North Korea, ''We don't negotiate with evil, we defeat it.''
 While the Bush administration has debated whether to talk to North Korea, and if so, in what arena and about what, Pyongyang has continued reprocessing more plutonium for more nuclear weapons every day. On its current course North Korea will soon be a nuclear weapons state with a serial production line able to produce an additional dozen weapons a year.
 If in the months ahead North Korea tests a nuclear weapon and declares itself a nuclear weapons state, what will the United States do? South Korea and Japan will very likely move to develop their own nuclear arsenals before the decade is out. If North Korea's ''Missiles 'R' Us'' expands into ''Nukes 'R' Us,'' selling nuclear weapons to Al Qaeda, how will the United States react? If the megaterrorist attack Washington is now warning us about involves a nuclear bomb built from North Korean plutonium, the president's failure to heed the Kissinger warning about unacceptable transformations will be judged by history the gravest strategic failure of a new century. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); WRITERS (87%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXTORTION (71%); LITERATURE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); HISTORY (68%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: Graham Allison; Joel S Wit; Daniel B Poneman; Robert L Gallucci

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



404 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: When Business Class Means Second Class

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Listen to business travelers like Michael Kolsky, and you might be left with the impression that the travel industry has forgotten the basics of customer service.
 ''I check into a hotel, and I'm given the worst room,'' said Mr. Kolsky, the president of Mikol Ltd., a beverage consulting company in Blaine, Wash. ''I board a plane, and the flight attendants ignore me. It used to happen occasionally. Now it happens constantly.''
 But listen to representatives of the airline, hotel or car rental business, and you could be left with the impression that business travelers, who have become increasingly budget-minded, are getting exactly what they deserve. 
 At a Cornell University hospitality industry conference this spring, for example, Matthew J. Hart, then the executive vice president of Hilton Hotels, declared that guests who book discounted accommodations online are more likely to be stuck in a room next to the ice machine or elevator. (Mr. Hart has since been promoted to president of the hotel chain.) 
 The remark drew laughs from the audience but also nods of agreement, said Judy A. Siguaw, a professor of marketing at Cornell who attended the panel discussion. ''Corporate America wants to save money,'' she said. ''But business travelers have not adjusted their expectations accordingly.'' Indeed, her guest-satisfaction research suggests that they are demanding more from a travel industry that is prepared to offer less.
 Several new studies support that conclusion. The latest American Customer Satisfaction Index survey, a quarterly measure of customer sentiment compiled by the University of Michigan Business School, found that business travelers give airlines a failing grade. Not only that, but their opinion is sinking: the airline score slipped by 2 points this year, to 63 out of a possible 100. Leisure travelers, by comparison, gave commercial carriers the same grade as in 2003: a 67.
 Corporate travel managers -- the executives who manage business travel at large corporations -- acknowledge that their employees are more demanding. An internal survey by the National Business Travel Association, a trade group, found that 79 percent of business travelers said they were entitled to a higher level of service than other travelers.
 Taken together, the polls not only point to a widening gap between what business travelers expect and what they get, they also suggest that the indignity they dread above all others -- being treated like tourists -- is tormenting them. And as skies become more crowded and hotel occupancy rates soar this summer, tensions are bound to run even higher.
 ''Business travelers as a whole have been significantly less satisfied than leisure travelers during the past two years,'' said David Van Amburg, the managing director for the American Customer Satisfaction Index. He said the situation was similar to the one that leisure travelers faced after airline deregulation in the 1970's, when carriers cut everything from legroom to meal service. Tourists eventually adjusted.
 But will business travelers? Not if they can help it, they say.
 Airline passengers like the Rev. Ronald Culmer, an Episcopal priest in Winnetka, Calif., are reluctant to put up with bad service and shrinking space. On one transcontinental red-eye flight, a passenger in the narrow economy-class seat next to him fell asleep, Father Culmer recalled, ''and I had his hands, his head, his drool and half of one leg in my seat.'' On another, the cabin was so cramped that there was no way to escape the prodding elbows of flight attendants and the bumping of their meal carts. ''Where can you go at 35,000 feet?'' he asked.
 Father Culmer says the only alternative to suffering in flight is an upgrade to first class, but like many other frequent fliers, he wonders why it should be the only option.
 The complaints are not limited to airlines. Kathy Bible, a lawyer for a trade organization in Tallahassee, Fla., says car rental companies have also stopped caring about business travelers the way they used to. She remembers a recent experience with her organization's preferred car rental company in which she was subjected to discourteous employees, her reservation was lost, and she was given the keys to the wrong car twice.
 ''When I returned the car, I was charged for gas even though the tank was still full,'' she said. And on the company's shuttle bus, a driver ''very rudely told me I couldn't get off the bus through the back door where the other passengers were departing; instead, I had to get off through the front door. I had a hard time refraining from giving him a Dick Cheney greeting as I got off the bus. But I controlled myself.''
 But do business travelers deserve preferential service? ''Yes, I do expect to be treated better,'' Ms. Bible said. Business travelers support the travel industry in good times and in bad, she reasons, and they often also pay more, booking airline tickets with fewer restrictions, hotel rooms on short notice or full-size cars.
 Generally, the travel industry agrees that business travelers who pay more deserve more. It is the ones who book deeply discounted airfares, hotels or cars through the Internet who perturb them.
 Mr. Hart's comments at the Cornell conference were hardly unique. Efforts to rein in bargain-hunting business travelers have included changing loyalty programs so that benefits are tied to fare prices instead of just the number of miles flown, as Delta Air Lines did last year. The pay-for-perks attitude also extends to employees, who seem less willing to tolerate business travelers who demand to be pampered even when they travel on the cheap.
 Raul Zambrana, a flight attendant for a major American airline who is based in Frankfurt, remembers two recent passengers in first class who were particularly difficult. ''They came in with a queen and king of England attitude,'' he recalled. ''They threw stuff everywhere. They told us to put their bags in the overhead compartment. They held the meal service because one of them needed to work.''
 Mr. Zambrana says he has no problems with high-maintenance passengers who have paid the full price, in some cases upward of five figures, for a first-class seat on an international flight. ''But as I was looking at the flight's paperwork, I noticed that in the remarks columns, next to their names, it said, 'operational upgrade,' '' he said. ''Which means they didn't pay for it. It turns out the passengers were flying on an inexpensive economy-class ticket.''
 Although he was put off by the passengers' sense of entitlement, he says he did not allow it to interfere with his job. But his disdain for passengers with Champagne tastes and beer budgets is widespread in the travel industry, especially among employees who have accepted pay and benefit cuts to help their companies weather hard times. For such customers to demand red-carpet treatment strikes them as impudent.
 The rift between corporate travelers and the travel industry has always existed to some extent, says Jack O'Neill, the chief operating officer for the corporate travel agency Carlson Wagonlit Travel USA. But higher costs on the part of the travel industry and increased demand by leisure travelers have turned that fissure into a chasm. ''On the one hand, business travelers are the travel industry's best customers -- they drive profitability,'' he said. ''On the other hand, with all the focus on travel spending, business travelers are finding new ways to save money.''
 Is there a way to bring the two sides closer? As difficult as these regular customers may be, Mr. O'Neill said travel companies, and particularly airlines, do not want to lose them to their competition. ''I think they really want to treat business travelers better,'' he said. ''But how can you do that when your planes are flying full?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A passenger at a United Airlines counter at San Francisco International Airport. As business travelers increasingly search for bargains, some in the travel industry are less inclined to cater to their demands. (Photo by Noah Berger/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%) Travel and Vacations; Hotels and Motels; Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Opinion; Computers and the Internet; Automobiles; Renting and Leasing; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%) National Business Travel Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



405 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; THE DOCTOR'S WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: A Political Circus Is Part of the AIDS Meeting

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

DATELINE: BANGKOK, July 19 

 BODY:
The 15th International AIDS Conference that ended here last week after six days of pageantry, speeches from world leaders and demonstrations by advocates was an unrecognizable descendant of the first meeting, in Atlanta in 1985.
 That meeting, held four years after the discovery of AIDS, was conducted over three days in the sterile and somber atmosphere of a scientific meeting. There were only 2,100 scientists and they were trying to figure out why a new disease had suddenly appeared. I recall their curiosity as they tried to decipher the rapidly emerging but tentative medical findings and sought ways to detect and treat the puzzling new syndrome. 
 In contrast, the Bangkok AIDS conference, the largest so far, drew more than 17,000 delegates. Science took a back seat to the concurrent sessions on social, economic, legal, policy making and other aspects of AIDS. 
 Three elephants depicted on the conference logo became an unintentional symbol of the boisterous political circuses that AIDS conferences have become. The conference's circus atmosphere even affected top public health leaders like Dr. Peter Piot, who directs the United Nations AIDS program.
 In a jocular yet serious AIDS prevention effort on the eve of the conference, Dr. Piot went to a Bangkok toll booth to hand to drivers the condoms that are the main weapon in controlling the spread of H.I.V. The toll booth scene was a variant on a Thai police program, known as cops and rubbers, to hand out condoms in traffic.
 ''No one was embarrassed, and some asked for more condoms,'' Dr. Piot told me of the experience that he shared with Mechai Viravaidya, a Thai senator whose efforts to promote condom use and safer sex helped prevent millions of Thais from getting infected over the last decade. 
 The transformation of the AIDS conferences from austere scientific meetings to mammoth jamborees is due to two main factors. One is that AIDS has become one of the worst epidemics in history, killing more than 20 million people so far, mostly in Africa. Second, conferences are now less focused on a failure to find a cure for the disease and more on the failure to deliver the many treatments now available. 
 At the time of the Atlanta conference the AIDS virus had yet to be named H.I.V. There were no effective anti-retroviral drugs. Some doctors were shunning AIDS patients. Hospital workers left meals at their doors. Many others feared they might become infected from casual contact despite epidemiological evidence to the contrary. Fewer than 10,000 cases were reported in the United States, mostly among gay men, injecting drug users and hemophiliacs. But the case count was doubling every six months. 
 Dr. Helene Gayle, an official of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the new president of the International AIDS Society, which co-organizes the conferences, said she attended the Atlanta conference out of curiosity, not because of a feeling of an impending pandemic. Dr. Gayle told me that when she joined the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 1984, superiors counseled her to avoid involvement in AIDS because it was ''an oddball disease'' that would soon disappear. 
 Few participants at that time were aware of how H.I.V. was swiftly spreading to devastate Africa. The only three African participants were from what was then called Zaire and came with Dr. Piot, who was working there at the time. 
 In Atlanta, I recall none of the demonstrations that soon began to be conference fixtures as advocates increasingly scolded scientists and government officials for their seeming lack of urgency to discover new therapies and deliver them. In some ways, the demonstrators have helped focus attention on the magnitude of the pandemic. The meetings have grown so large and diverse that the fastest and most diligent participant can attend only a small percentage of the presentations because many meeting rooms are acres apart. 
 The conferences also have become big business with many commercial exhibitors. In Vancouver in 1996, there was electrifying news that combinations of anti-retroviral drugs could keep H.I.V. in check. Reports in Durban, South Africa, in 2000 and Barcelona, Spain, in 2002 are now credited with playing major roles in lowering the price of the anti-retroviral drugs and setting the stage for their delivery to people in poor countries. 
 The United States contributes more money for AIDS than any other country. Yet participants in Bangkok still harshly criticized the Bush administration for doing too little, emphasizing a policy of abstinence and severely restricting the number of government scientists allowed to attend the conference. Two federal agencies, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, have been strong forces in earlier conferences. Yet the Bush administration did not allow some scientists to travel to Bangkok to discuss their papers that had been accepted for presentation. 
 No conference has been held in the United States since 1990 as a protest against the government's policy to refuse visas to H.I.V.-infected people. Keeping AIDS in the news has become a main goal. Bangkok was chosen as the conference site largely to galvanize media attention on Asia and to educate heads of state and other political leaders on how to prevent the devastation that has struck Africa. 
 Nelson Mandela, the former president of South Africa; Yuweri Musaveni, president of Uganda; and Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations, lent their prestige. Mr. Annan described AIDS as a ''weapon of mass destruction'' and urged the Bush administration to battle H.I.V. as fervently as it has terrorism. 
 Mr. Annan told the BBC: ''We hear a lot about weapons of mass destruction, we hear a lot about terrorism. And we are worried about weapons of mass destruction because of the potential to kill thousands. Here we have an epidemic that is killing millions. We really do need a leadership.'' 
 But, at the same time, the Thai government had to cancel a summit meeting on AIDS because of 10 heads of state the Thais invited, only Mr. Musaveni accepted. He told health workers that to educate people about H.I.V., they must drop their professorial approach and become more like politicians and celebrities. Participants proved the point as they jammed sessions to hear Richard Gere and watch MTV's new global public service announcements.
 It is too soon to know the legacy of the Bangkok meeting. In the end, it may be that both scientific advances and political circuses have useful roles in stopping the spread of AIDS. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: All dressed up and giving out condoms: The Bangkok AIDS conference was a far cry from the earlier ones. (Photo by Udo Weitz/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AIDS POLICY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); EPIDEMICS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); VIRUSES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); HOSPITALS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); HEMOPHILIA (60%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%) Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation; International AIDS Society

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%) Lawrence K (Dr) Altman; Helene (Dr) Gayle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%) Bangkok (Thailand); Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



406 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Don't Dumb Down the Military

BYLINE: By Nathaniel Fick. 
Nathaniel Fick, a former Marine captain, is writing a memoir of his military training and combat experience.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I went to war as a believer in the citizen-soldier. My college study of the classics idealized Greeks who put down their plows for swords, returning to their fields at the end of the war. As a Marine officer in Afghanistan and Iraq, however, I learned that the victors on today's battlefields are long-term, professional soldiers. Thus the increasing calls for reinstating the draft -- and the bills now before Congress that would do so -- are well intentioned but misguided. Imposing a draft on the military I served in would harm it grievously for years.
 I led platoons of volunteers. In Afghanistan, my marines slept each night in holes they hacked from the rocky ground. They carried hundred-pound packs in addition to their fears of minefields and ambushes, their homesickness, loneliness and exhaustion. The most junior did it for $964.80 per month. They didn't complain, and I never wrestled with discipline problems. Each and every marine wanted to be there. If anyone hadn't, he would have been a drain on the platoon and a liability in combat. 
 In Iraq, I commanded a reconnaissance platoon, the Marines' special operations force. Many of my enlisted marines were college-educated; some had been to graduate school. All had volunteered once for the Marines, again for the infantry, and a third time for recon. They were proud to serve as part of an elite unit. Like most demanding professionals, they were their own harshest critics, intolerant of their peers whose performance fell short. 
 The dumb grunt is an anachronism. He has been replaced by the strategic corporal. Immense firepower and improved technology have pushed decision-making with national consequences down to individual enlisted men. Modern warfare requires that even the most junior infantryman master a wide array of technical and tactical skills. 
 Honing these skills to reflex, a prerequisite for survival in combat, takes time -- a year of formal training and another year of on-the-job experience were generally needed to transform my young marines into competent warriors. The Marine Corps demands four-year active enlistments because it takes that long to train troops and ensure those training dollars are put to use in the field. One- or two-year terms, the longest that would be likely under conscription, would simply not allow for this comprehensive training.
 Some supporters of the draft argue that America's wars are being fought primarily by minorities from poor families who enlisted in the economic equivalent of a Hail Mary pass. They insist that the sacrifices of citizenship be shared by all Americans. The sentiment is correct, but the outrage is misplaced. There is no cannon-fodder underclass in the military. In fact, front-line combat troops are a near-perfect reflection of American male society. 
 Yes, some minority men and women enlist for lack of other options, but they tend to concentrate in support jobs where they can learn marketable skills like driving trucks or fixing jets, not throwing grenades and setting up interlocking fields of machine gun fire. African-Americans, who comprise nearly 13 percent of the general population, are overrepresented in the military at more than 19 percent -- but they account for only 10.6 percent of infantry soldiers, the group that suffers most in combat. Hispanics, who make up 13.3 percent of the American population, are underrepresented at only 11 percent of those in uniform. 
 The men in my infantry platoons came from virtually every part of the socio-economic spectrum. There were prep-school graduates and first-generation immigrants, blacks and whites, Muslims and Jews, Democrats and Republicans. They were more diverse than my class at Dartmouth, and far more willing to act on their principles.
 The second argument most often advanced for a renewed draft is that the military is too small to meet its commitments. Absolutely true. But the armed forces are stretched thin not from a lack of volunteers but because Congress and the Pentagon are not willing to spend the money to expand the force. Each of the services met or exceeded its recruiting goals in 2003, and the numbers have increased across the board so far this year. Even the Army National Guard, often cited as the abused beast of burden in Iraq, has seen re-enlistments soar past its goal, 65 percent, to 141 percent (the figure is greater than 100 because many guardsmen are re-enlisting early). 
 Expanding the military to meet additional responsibilities is a matter of structural change: if we build it, they will come. And build it we must. Many of my marines are already on their third combat deployment in the global war on terrorism; they will need replacing. Increasing the size of the active-duty military would lighten the burden on every soldier, sailor, airman and marine. Paradoxically, a larger military becomes more sustainable than a smaller one: fewer combat deployments improves service members' quality of life and contributes to higher rates of enlistment and retention. For now, expanding the volunteer force would give us a larger military without the inherent liabilities of conscription. 
 And while draft supporters insist we have learned the lessons of Vietnam and can create a fair system this time around, even an equitable draft would lower the standards for enlistees. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was chastised for saying Vietnam-era draftees added no value to the armed forces. But his error was semantic; the statement was true of the system, if not of the patriotic and capable individuals who served. 
 The current volunteer force rejects applicants who score poorly on its entrance aptitude exam, disclose a history of significant drug use or suffer from any of a number of orthopedic or chronic injuries. Face it: any unwilling draftee could easily find a way to fail any of these tests. The military, then, would be left either to abandon its standards and accept all comers, or to remain true to them and allow the draft to become volunteerism by another name. Stripped of its volunteer ideology, but still unable to compel service from dissenters, the military would end up weaker and less representative than the volunteer force -- the very opposite of the draft's intended goals. 
 Renewing the draft would be a blow against the men and women in uniform, a dumbing down of the institution they serve. The United States military exists to win battles, not to test social policy. Enlarging the volunteer force would show our soldiers that Americans recognize their hardship and are willing to pay the bill to help them better protect the nation. My view of the citizen-soldier was altered, but not destroyed, in combat. We cannot all pick up the sword, nor should we be forced to -- but we owe our support to those who do.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Etienne Delessert) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (76%); VOLUNTEERS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); POOR POPULATION (68%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Law and Legislation; Minorities; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Nathaniel Fick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



407 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: The Arabian Candidate

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the original version of ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' Senator John Iselin, whom Chinese agents are plotting to put in the White House, is a right-wing demagogue modeled on Senator Joseph McCarthy. As Roger Ebert wrote, the plan is to ''use anticommunist hysteria as a cover for a communist takeover.''
 The movie doesn't say what Iselin would have done if the plot had succeeded. Presumably, however, he wouldn't have openly turned traitor. Instead, he would have used his position to undermine national security, while posing as America's staunchest defender against communist evil. 
 So let's imagine an update -- not the remake with Denzel Washington, which I haven't seen, but my own version. This time the enemies would be Islamic fanatics, who install as their puppet president a demagogue who poses as the nation's defender against terrorist evildoers.
 The Arabian candidate wouldn't openly help terrorists. Instead, he would serve their cause while pretending to be their enemy.
 After an attack, he would strike back at the terrorist base, a necessary action to preserve his image of toughness, but botch the follow-up, allowing the terrorist leaders to escape. Once the public's attention shifted, he would systematically squander the military victory: committing too few soldiers, reneging on promises of economic aid. Soon, warlords would once again rule most of the country, the heroin trade would be booming, and terrorist allies would make a comeback.
 Meanwhile, he would lead America into a war against a country that posed no imminent threat. He would insinuate, without saying anything literally false, that it was somehow responsible for the terrorist attack. This unnecessary war would alienate our allies and tie down a large part of our military. At the same time, the Arabian candidate would neglect the pursuit of those who attacked us, and do nothing about regimes that really shelter anti-American terrorists and really are building nuclear weapons.
 Again, he would take care to squander a military victory. The Arabian candidate and his co-conspirators would block all planning for the war's aftermath; they would arrange for our army to allow looters to destroy much of the country's infrastructure. Then they would disband the defeated regime's army, turning hundreds of thousands of trained soldiers into disgruntled potential insurgents. 
 After this it would be easy to sabotage the occupied country's reconstruction, simply by failing to spend aid funds or rein in cronyism and corruption. Power outages, overflowing sewage and unemployment would swell the ranks of our enemies.
 Who knows? The Arabian candidate might even be able to deprive America of the moral high ground, no mean trick when our enemies are mass murderers, by creating a climate in which U.S. guards torture, humiliate and starve prisoners, most of them innocent or guilty of only petty crimes.
 At home, the Arabian candidate would leave the nation vulnerable, doing almost nothing to secure ports, chemical plants and other potential targets. He would stonewall investigations into why the initial terrorist attack succeeded. And by repeatedly issuing vague terror warnings obviously timed to drown out unfavorable political news, his officials would ensure public indifference if and when a real threat is announced.
 Last but not least, by blatantly exploiting the terrorist threat for personal political gain, he would undermine the nation's unity in the face of its enemies, sowing suspicion about the government's motives.
 O.K., end of conceit. President Bush isn't actually an Al Qaeda mole, with Dick Cheney his controller. Mr. Bush's ''war on terror'' has, however, played with eerie perfection into Osama bin Laden's hands -- while Mr. Bush's supporters, impressed by his tough talk, see him as America's champion against the evildoers.
 Last week, Republican officials in Kentucky applauded bumper stickers distributed at G.O.P. offices that read, ''Kerry is bin Laden's man/Bush is mine.'' Administration officials haven't gone that far, but when Tom Ridge offered a specifics-free warning about a terrorist attack timed to ''disrupt our democratic process,'' many people thought he was implying that Al Qaeda wants George Bush to lose. In reality, all infidels probably look alike to the terrorists, but if they do have a preference, nothing in Mr. Bush's record would make them unhappy at the prospect of four more years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CLOSINGS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); POWER FAILURES (66%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); MILITARY TRAINING (65%); RELIGION (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); HEROIN (50%) Terrorism; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



408 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; From Pariah to Belle of the Oil Ball; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: For Energy Companies, Libya Is Suddenly the Hottest Date Around

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
Is Libya the new Iraq? When Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, an influential energy industry newsletter, posed that question recently in a comparison of investment opportunities in both countries, the answer was clear. 
 Many multinational oil companies, previously enamored of Iraq, have shifted their focus in the near term to Libya now that it is shedding its pariah status and their frustrations have increased in Iraq amid growing security fears and uncertainty over that country's investment climate.
 Despite the wariness that persists over Libya in some diplomatic quarters, the Bush administration's recent easing of restrictions on doing business with Libya has touched off a frenetic race among energy companies to re-enter a nation that once produced oil gushers for American companies but has been off-limits to them for two decades. 
 A vanguard of American lawyers, bankers and consultants, many of them based in Houston, has traveled to Tripoli in recent weeks to evaluate Libyan opportunities. Many of these visitors are focused on expectations that Libya plans to offer as many as 11 new oil exploration blocks this month to foreign companies, in the first opening of the nation's oil fields available to Americans since the early 1980's. 
 ''The risks of entering Libya now are relatively low, in terms of politics and getting to the oil,'' said Stephen Davis, co-head of the Middle East and North Africa section of Vinson & Elkins, a Houston law firm that is handling much of its Libya business through a new office in Dubai. ''There's really nothing quite like it, since the terrain is already familiar to many American companies.'' 
 The reason for the attraction is simple: Libya produces about 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, but would be able to double that to 3 million barrels a day in a decade with large infusions of American investment and the introduction of new drilling technologies, according to industry executives and analysts.
 In the halcyon days of Libya's oil industry in the early 1970's, before a long, slow decay set in after the nationalization of many oil operations in the country, Libya produced 3.3 million barrels a day without much difficulty. 
 Speaking at an oil industry conference in Houston in May, Tarek Hassan-Beck, director of planning at the National Oil Company of Libya, emphasized that the country has about 36 billion barrels of known oil reserves, accounting for about 3 percent of the world's total, but that only 25 percent of its reserves had been explored. And Libya also has plentiful reserves of natural gas.
 Important obstacles remain, of course, before Libya completely comes in from the cold. No airlines from the United States are yet permitted to fly to Tripoli, Libya's capital, and strict limits remain in place that prevent Libya from obtaining access to funds frozen in American bank accounts and acquiring equipment for military purposes from American companies.
 American investors are also waiting for greater clarity on whether Libya will enforce a rule requiring them to certify they do not do business with Israel; meeting with such a request would be illegal for American companies.
 Still, the legacy of American involvement in Libya's oil industry has enhanced the interest of some companies. Senior executives of companies that once considered Libya their lifeblood, like Occidental Petroleum, ConocoPhillips, Amerada Hess and Marathon Oil, have all traveled to Tripoli recently to negotiate a return to oil fields that were once among the world's most prolific before falling into relative disrepair. 
 Their larger competitors, including Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco, are also signaling a re-engagement with Libya. Exxon Mobil, for instance, reached a deal earlier this month to sell its fuel distribution business in Niger, one of Libya's landlocked sub-Saharan neighbors, to Tam Oil, the international investment arm of Libya's national oil company. The deal, the first of its kind for an American company since most sanctions were lifted last spring, was indicative of a thaw in commercial relations.
 The motivation for kick-starting Libyan energy ventures is clear. With oil prices expected to remain at elevated levels for several years, the only large oil producer other than Libya with the capability of doubling oil production over the next decade is Iraq. While Iraq's oil reserves of 112 billion barrels are triple Libya's, security concerns in Iraq have seriously limited the efforts of large American and other international oil companies seeking to grow operations in that country. 
 Another reason for the interest in Libya is that the crude oil produced there is low in sulfur, and thus is relatively easy and cheap to refine for consumption in the United States and Europe. And Libya's location on the Mediterranean, providing smooth access to southern Europe and the United States, avoids the security pitfalls of transporting oil through more delicate areas like the Strait of Hormuz, connecting the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. 
 ''While Iraq remains a wait-and-see game, Libya has quickly moved to the fore as a place to invest and explore,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, after returning from a trip to Tripoli this month. ''At a time when the energy industry is very sensitive to geopolitical risk, that's no easy feat.''
 Libya is considered the second-most-important exploration prospect in the world this year, outranked only by Britain with its large fields in the North Sea, according to a list compiled in May by Fugro Robertson, a British energy consulting firm. Libya ranked ahead of Iraq, Trinidad and Tobago, Algeria and Egypt. 
 Senior Libyan officials have wasted little time in attempting to lure new American energy investments. Mr. Hassan-Beck, the director of planning at the National Oil Company of Libya, estimated that Libya would need about $30 billion in new investments over the next 10 years. 
 European, Canadian, Indian, Chinese and Australian companies have been investing consistently in Libya during the last two decades, and especially in the last five years or so, while their American competitors were shut off from the country. Many of these projects are providing or are about to provide a steady stream of oil and natural gas exports from Libya to markets in Europe and in particular to Italy, a legacy of the colonial period when Italy held sway over Libya's affairs.
 For instance, Libya soon expects to start exporting natural gas to Italy through a 370-mile pipeline under the Mediterranean to southeastern Sicily, in a $5.6 billion venture with Eni of Italy. The output from smaller oil exploration projects involving Repsol YPF of Spain, Total of France, OMV of Austria and ONCG Videsh of India are also enabling Libya to benefit from high oil prices, lifting oil export revenues to $13.4 billion in 2003 from $5.9 billion in 1998. Oil revenues are expected to be even higher this year. 
 Increasing oil revenues and the easing of sanctions are also alluring for companies that provide oil-field services or oil-industry equipment, since American companies are considered leaders in advanced oil and gas recovery technologies, many of which they have under patent, according to a recent report on Libya by the Energy Information Administration. 
 Halliburton, the oil-field services giant, for example, retained a Libyan presence through a loophole that allowed a German subsidiary to remain in the country, but was unable to meaningfully expand its business or import technology from the United States. Wendy Hall, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, said new regulations governing business activities in Libya would ''put Halliburton on a level playing field with our non-U.S. competitors.''
 Energy is not the only area that interests American companies as they weigh re-entering Libya, though the focus is overwhelmingly on oil and gas because the economy still depends on oil exports for 95 percent of its hard currency. Ventures seeking to open business-class hotels and to sell medical equipment in Libya are also said to be under way. In addition, although limits remain in place preventing sales of military equipment to Libya, military contractors are evaluating potential contracts in Libya. 
 ''It's one of the only large, nonaligned countries with lots of hard cash that hasn't been able to buy American for a long time,'' said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with the Teal Group, a defense consulting firm in Fairfax, Va. 
 Mr. Aboulafia said an important test of Libya's potential as a market for American defense companies will be whether the Bush administration allows Libya to take delivery of eight C-130 Hercules aircraft that have been parked on a runway at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Marietta, Ga., for more than two decades. Libya was not allowed to receive the planes, which were purchased in the 1970's, after being placed on the State Department's list of companies that support terrorism. 
 Peter Simmons, a spokesman for Lockheed Martin, which sold the planes to Libya, said the company had no indication of whether Libya would eventually be allowed to take delivery of the aircraft. ''They remain parked there at the end of the runway,'' Mr. Simmons said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker supervised a maintenance crew at the Zawia refinery in Libya earlier this year. Libya says that it has about 36 billion barrels of known oil reserves, about 3 percent of the world total, but that only 25 percent of its reserves have been explored. (Photo by John Moore/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Halliburton, the oil-field services giant, retained a Libyan presence through a loophole that allowed a German subsidiary to remain in the country, but was unable to meaningfully expand its business. (Photo by John Moore/Associated Press)(pg. C8)Map of Libya highlighting Tripoli 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (72%); LAWYERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%); TERRORISM (59%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Exploration of Resources; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: DAVIS CO INC (67%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (56%); NATIONAL OIL CO OF ZIMBABWE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); SIC5171 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (51%)

PERSON: Simon Romero; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (88%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Iraq; Libya

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



409 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Drug Approved for Heart Failure in Black Patients

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
A drug aimed at treating heart failure specifically in black patients has proved so effective that the clinical trial in which it was being tested has been halted early, the company sponsoring the trial said yesterday. 
 The results are expected to lead to approval of the first drug specifically for a single ethnic group. They seem to validate the gamble by the company, NitroMed, to take a drug that had failed to win approval for general use and test it only on African-Americans, an approach that ignited controversy on the relevance of race to medicine. The company's stock soared on yesterday's announcement.
 Michael D. Loberg, the president and chief executive, said the company had been expecting the drug to be approved in early 2006 but would now be ready to introduce the drug in early 2005, if the Food and Drug Administration approves it that soon for use by blacks. 
 NitroMed has argued that blacks have a higher rate of heart failure than the American population as a whole and that they tend not to respond to some existing heart failure drugs as well as other groups. For NitroMed executives, those factors, and some earlier evidence that blacks respond better to the drug, which is called BiDil, justified a test of the drug just in that ethnic group. 
 Yesterday, NitroMed said that an independent committee of medical researchers overseeing patient safety in the trial decided it would be unethical to continue giving some patients a placebo because those getting the drug were living significantly longer. The trial, which began in 2001 and had enrolled about 1,050 of the 1,100 patients eventually intended to take part, was halted immediately and all the participating patients will be offered BiDil. 
 ''It is a spectacular result,'' said Anne L. Taylor, a professor of medicine at the University of Minnesota and the chairwoman of the study. ''It offers an additional treatment for a group of patients who traditionally, with standard medications, have not done as well.'' 
 The stock of NitroMed, a still unprofitable start-up company based in Lexington, Mass., rose 73 percent, or $4.31, to $10.21 yesterday. Early in the day it had climbed above $16. The company, incorporated in 1992, went public only last November, when its shares were first offered at $11. 
 Dr. Loberg said there were about 750,000 blacks with heart failure, a debilitating condition in which the heart does not pump enough blood. If all of them used the drug, sales could reach $1 billion a year, he said, although he declined to project what sales would actually be. In all, there are about five million Americans with heart failure. 
 NitroMed's trial had become a focus of the debate over what role race should play in determining medical treatments. Some scientists say that race has little meaning and that specific genetic factors that cross racial lines determine who will get a disease or who will benefit from treatments. 
 But some doctors say that until those specific genetic factors are known, race can be a convenient classification because people of the same race tend to share certain genetic characteristics. And heart disease in blacks tends to be linked more to hypertension than to arterial blockages that are a major cause in white heart patients. NitroMed says that blacks are also more likely to have a deficiency of nitric oxide. But some of the higher rate of heart failure in blacks could be explained by socio-economic factors or a lack of access to medical care.
 Labels for some drugs already make note of racial differences. The label for Cozaar, a hypertension drug, notes that the drug's effect in reducing blood pressure is ''somewhat less'' in blacks and that there was no evidence that the drug's benefit of reducing heart attack, strokes and death in the overall population applied to blacks. 
 To help win over critics, NitroMed got the Association of Black Cardiologists to be a co-sponsor of the trial. 
 Clyde Yancy, a member of the association and part of the steering committee for the trial, said the study needed to be conducted because blacks had been under-represented in previous trials and there were questions about whether they should be given the existing drugs. 
 ''We had an unmet medical need to further understand the issue and the question of heart failure in African-Americans,'' said Dr. Yancy, head of the heart failure and heart transplant programs at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. 
 Still, he said, he saw drawbacks. ''There are many who believe that this is a dangerous slope to begin to define treatment decisions according to race,'' Dr. Yancy said. ''I don't disagree with that.''
 BiDil works by enhancing the level of nitric oxide, a chemical that is produced by the cells lining the blood vessels and that plays a role in dilating blood vessels and controlling blood pressure. NitroMed specializes in drugs related to nitric oxide. Besides the work on BiDil, it has a collaboration with Merck to develop nitric-oxide-based COX-2 inhibitors, a category of painkiller that also includes Vioxx from Merck. Enhancing such painkillers with nitric oxide could be a way to reduce gastrointestinal side effects. 
 It also has agreement with Boston Scientific to develop nitric-oxide-coated cardiovascular stents -- meshlike devices that doctors use to prop open coronary arteries in hopes of preventing heart attacks. 
 BiDil is a combination of two old generic drugs, neither of them approved for heart failure. Jay N. Cohn, a professor at the University of Minnesota School of Medicine, first thought of combining them to treat heart failure in the 1970's, and a trial was conducted in the early 1980's. 
 That trial showed the drug to have some effect, but the Food and Drug Administration rejected the drug, arguing the data were not strong enough. After Medco Research, a company that had licensed the drug, dropped it, the rights reverted to Dr. Cohn. NitroMed, which was interested because the drug fitted its focus on nitric oxide, licensed it in 1999. 
 Reviewing the data from the old trial, Dr. Cohn and NitroMed found that the drug had been remarkably effective in the subset of patients who were black. By contrast, the results in the white patients were not statistically significant. Based on the old data, NitroMed applied in 2000 for approval to use the drug for blacks. The F.D.A. said it would consider approval if NitroMed conducted another trial to confirm the results, according to the company. That was the trial that has just been halted. Data from the trial will be released in the fourth quarter.
 ''This has been 30 years,'' Dr. Cohn said. ''I have to feel that I am finally vindicated.'' 
 Questions still remain about the size of the potential market. Dr. Loberg said he thought sales of the drug would grow quickly because the trial tested BiDil for use in addition to other heart failure drugs. So BiDil would not be competing directly with those other drugs. 
 Some analysts on a conference call convened by NitroMed yesterday questioned whether the company would be able to protect BiDil from generic competition, since doctors could write two separate prescriptions for the generic components that make up BiDil. Dr. Loberg said that would be difficult because the generic drugs are not sold in the same doses as are used in BiDil. 
 Dr. Loberg said that when scientists analyze the trial results they will look for genetic characteristics that can predict which patients are most likely to benefit from the drug. If such markers are found, it would be possible to test people in other ethnic groups for those markers, perhaps extending use of the drug. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The headline of the Market Place column on the front page of Business Day yesterday, about a clinical trial for BiDil, a drug aimed at heart failure specifically in black patients, misstated the outcome. The trial was halted because the drug was so effective; the drug did not receive approval.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); HEART DISEASE (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); STARTUPS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Heart; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); BiDil (Drug); Blacks; Research; Heart

COMPANY: NITROMED INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%) Nitromed Inc; Food and Drug Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



410 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Rights Group Says Sudan Aids Abuses

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 19 

 BODY:
An international human rights group said Monday that it had Sudanese government records showing that the authorities in Sudan are recruiting, arming and protecting the Arab militias attacking black Africans in the Darfur region in a campaign that United Nations officials have called ethnic cleansing.
 Officials in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, have denied reports of complicity with fighters held responsible for the deaths of 30,000 people and the displacement of more than a million. They have answered the international outcry over the crisis with vows to disarm the militias and curb the violence. 
 ''What these documents show is there is a need to go past the fiction maintained by Khartoum that there is a serious distinction between the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed militia that the government has sponsored,'' said Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch.
 In a news conference at the United Nations, Mr. Roth deplored the delay in obtaining a Security Council resolution placing sanctions on Sudan's leaders, and he said the time had come to cease trusting Khartoum's claims that it will head off the problem and its pleas for time to do so.
 ''The Khartoum government is trying to have it both ways maintaining a facade of cooperation with the international community but in fact doing relatively little to rein in the ongoing atrocities in Darfur,'' Mr. Roth said.
 Both Secretary General Kofi Annan and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell went to Darfur this month to pressure Sudanese officials, but a United States-sponsored draft resolution has run into delays on the Security Council from countries interested in giving Sudan time to comply with its promises to act.
 Mr. Roth displayed the Arabic documents and English translations of them and said they had been authenticated by Sudanese sources that the human rights group had found reliable in the past.
 One, dated days after the Feb. 9 public declaration by the Sudanese president, Omar Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, to ''end all military operations in Darfur,'' ordered provincial officials instead to increase recruitment and support fighters.
 Another, a month later, called for additional ''provisions and ammunition.'' A third laid out plans for resettling lands from which black villagers had been evicted or eliminated.
 Mr. Roth said his group had also turned up evidence that instead of disarming Janjaweed warriors, the government was incorporating them into the new police and security forces it was creating in the name of combating the militias.
 Mr. Roth ridiculed the draft Security Council resolution, which does not call for sanctions against Sudanese leaders, only restrictions on travel and money of Janjaweed officials. ''Freezing bank accounts and restricting travel for people who don't have bank accounts and don't travel won't do any good,'' he said.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Sudanese Militiamen Are Sentenced
 KHARTOUM, Sudan, July 19 (Reuters) -- A Sudanese court sentenced 10 Arab militiamen to amputation and six years in jail on Sunday in the first conviction of Janjaweed fighters for looting and killing in the Darfur region, according to a court document obtained here. 
 The ruling said the militiamen were convicted under articles pertaining to waging war, killing, armed looting and the possession of weapons without a license. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); POLITICS (61%); MILITARY RECRUITING (58%) Freedom and Human Rights; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) Human Rights Watch; United Nations

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Kenneth Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (96%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



411 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Business and Politics

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Machine at Work,'' by Paul Krugman (column, July 13), looks at one company, Enron, and its ties to Tom DeLay, the House majority leader. After reading it, though, you might get the impression that America's corporations and Mr. DeLay are plotting to take over our political system.
 Let's remember that corporations employ our workers; they innovate, invent and are the engine that helps keep our economy strong. 
 Does Mr. Krugman want Congress to pass laws preventing corporations from earning profits? Does he want every business executive to be prevented from participating in the electoral process? 
 If a corporation and its managers break the law, they should be prosecuted. 
 Give courts the evidence and juries will convict, as we can see in several recent cases.

SALVATORE J. BOMMARITO
New York, July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); JURY TRIALS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (68%) United States Politics and Government; Ethics

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) Salvatore J Bommarito; Paul Krugman; Tom (Rep) Delay

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Texas

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



412 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Retirement Wave Creates Shortage of Air Traffic Controllers

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Nearly half of the nation's air traffic controllers will reach the mandatory retirement age in the next decade, according to government estimates, forcing the Federal Aviation Administration to triple its current rate of hiring and training at a time when air traffic is expected to grow significantly. 
 Of the 15,100 controllers who do the vital work of managing the skies from control towers and in vast, dim rooms with rows of radar scopes, about 7,100 will turn the mandatory retirement age of 56 by the 2012 fiscal year, and most will have the option of retiring years earlier. The F.A.A. says that means it will have to hire about 790 a year, a vast increase from current hiring levels.
 The F.A.A. acknowledges the challenge, but says it can cope. 
 ''The retirement wave is real,'' said Greg Martin, an agency spokesman in Washington. ''We're going to have to be ready for it. We will be ready.'' 
 The bulk of retirements are coming in the next few years because most of the current controllers were hired in 1982 as replacements for the 11,350 fired by President Ronald Reagan for going on strike the previous year, and they are approaching retirement age.
 So far, though, the agency does not even know how many controllers it will need at each tower and radar center. According to a June report by the federal Department of Transportation's inspector general, which audits F.A.A. operations, the hundreds of air traffic offices across the nation use different methods to calculate how many new workers they will need, leaving the F.A.A. with no clear picture of what is coming. 
 In New York, for example, one radar center said it would need 29 new people for the two-year period ending on Sept. 30, 2005, counting all categories of attrition, including resignations and removals. The other radar center counted only mandatory retirements and projected transfers. The La Guardia Airport tower said it would lose eight people, basing its estimate on attrition in earlier years.
 A controller shortage could become particularly acute in New York, where government statistics show that it takes longer to train apprentices than anywhere else, and where more trainees drop out than elsewhere. 
 The F.A.A. has said that jobs in the New York area are hard to fill because controllers can earn nearly as much in other locations, where the cost of living is lower and the work is less hectic.
 The retirement crunch is coming at a time of sharp growth in air traffic as the economy rebounds, and as commercial airlines are using smaller planes to add more flights and expand schedules. This saves the airlines money but makes the skies more crowded. This year the secretary of transportation, Norman Y. Mineta, called for tripling the air traffic capacity of the United States over the next 15 to 20 years to make room for more private and commercial flights, but budget cuts forced the F.A.A. to cancel some programs to let each controller handle more traffic.
 At a news conference yesterday at a hotel near La Guardia, officials with the controllers' union, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, complained that it takes a long time to train new hires because, with inadequate staffing, there is no one available to train them. And, they said, new equipment designed to speed air traffic will sit idle because there is no time for controllers to learn how to use it.
 For example, the Air Route Traffic Control Center for New York, in Ronkonkoma on Long Island, was supposed to send 10 veteran controllers to a seven-week training course in September to learn to use a new system that, for the first time, provides a graphic, radarlike display of airplanes over the Atlantic Ocean. But sending the controllers required taking in new trainees in early July, so they could take over some of the day-to-day work done by the veterans. The trainees did not arrive, so a fewer number will go for training, meaning the implementation of the system will be delayed.
 A spokeswoman for the F.A.A.'s Eastern Region, Arlene Salac, blamed the absence of the trainees on ''funding constraints.''
 Julio A. Henriques, president of the union chapter at the New York center, said the new system would be delayed for so long that the controllers who were trained this year would need refresher courses before they could start. Ms. Salac said there would be ''some delay.'' 
 Union officials also said that because of staffing shortages, excessive overtime is required, more than volunteers will take, so that some of it is assigned involuntarily.
 Mr. Martin, the F.A.A. spokesman, said the contract allows involuntary assignment of overtime and that this has been limited to asking a controller to work an extra two hours. Union officials said controllers were sometimes ordered to come to work on a sixth day a week.
 ''The rubber band keeps getting stretched tighter and tighter,'' said Dean Iacopelli, president of the controllers' union at the New York Terminal Radar Approach Control in Westbury, on Long Island.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Controllers were fired after striking in 1981. Their replacements are near retirement. (Photo by David Handschuh/Associated Press)Graph: ''Time to Retire''Many air traffic controllers were hired to replace those fired in 1981 for staging an illegal strike. Now the replacements are reaching mandatory retirement age or are eligible for retirement.Graph tracks controllers retiring nationwide, since 1996. (Source by Department of Transportation)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (94%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); COST OF LIVING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); STRIKES (66%) Airlines and Airplanes; Air Traffic Control; Hiring and Promotion; Labor; Airlines and Airplanes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (71%) Federal Aviation Administration

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%) Matthew Wald; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



413 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Europe Approves Genetically Modified Corn as Animal Feed

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
The European Union on Monday approved the importation of a genetically modified corn from the United States for animal feed, an important break in a six-year moratorium on the approval of biotechnology crops that has touched off a trade war.
 The announcement of the approval in Brussels was met with relief at Monsanto, the biotechnology giant that produces the corn, where it was seen as a welcome change after years of rejection. The decision will allow the importation and sale of Roundup Ready Corn 2 feed corn, but not its cultivation.
 ''Europe's decision on Monday represents definite progress,'' said Lee Quarles, public affairs manager at Monsanto's headquarters in St. Louis. ''We haven't seen action out of the European Union since 1998.'' 
 But the Bush administration said the decision would not deter it from pursuing its case against the European Union at the World Trade Organization, said Richard Mills, the spokesman for the United States trade representative.
 ''Our bottom line is Europe needs to have a predictable, timely, transparent and science-based regulatory system for biotech products,'' Mr. Mills said.
 Europeans are far more suspicious of genetically modified food than Americans, and they consider the issue one of safety rather than free trade. European consumers have protested what they call ''frankenfoods'' and have said that American multinationals cannot force them to accept a product they consider unsafe for human consumption or for the environment.
 The European Union has sought to ease consumer fears by passing stringent labeling rules in April to ensure that no one unknowingly purchases genetically modified food.
 Margot Wallstrom, the top European official for the environment, who made the announcement on Monday, said in a statement that the corn, known as NK603 maize, had been rigorously tested and was considered ''as safe as any conventional maize.''
 ''Clear labeling provides farmer and consumers the information they need to decide whether to buy the product or not,'' she said.
 She also underscored that the corn would be easily traced following the strict new rules.
 Syngenta, the Swiss biotechnology company, won approval in May to sell a genetically modified sweet corn in the European Union, which does not include Switzerland.
 Neither corn was approved for cultivation in Europe, where officials fear that sowing the seeds of biogenetically engineered crops will ruin the diversity of their plants and cause environmental damage.
 The United States and Europe have been feuding over the issue since the moratorium began. It came to a boiling point last year when the Bush administration filed its case at the W.T.O., contending that the European ban amounted to an illegal trade barrier. That case is still pending.
 At the same time, President Bush said that the European opposition to biotechnology was a threat to efforts to end world hunger because several African nations had rejected United States aid of genetically modified food for their starving populations. European officials dismissed the charges, saying that they gave a much larger proportion of their gross domestic product to aid developing countries and that they had not interfered with the American food aid program to Africa.
 Some of the largest United States agriculture and biotechnology companies have invested billions of dollars during the last decade to develop genetically altered crops. Nearly 100 million acres of farmland in the United States are now planted with genetically altered crops, and agriculture officials say American farmers have lost at least $1 billion over the last five years because they have been unable to export to Europe. One out of every three acres of farmland in the United States is planted for export.
 Agribusinesses have pushed the administration to open the European market, potentially the most lucrative for them. Large farmers who grow these crops have been reminding law makers and officials that in this election year they carry special weight in swing states in the Midwest.
 Monsanto will have to wait at least three more months to for the approval of the European Union to be finalized. Mr. Quarles of Monsanto said he was reluctant to guess when the genetically engineered feed corn will be exported and sold in Europe.
 ''This is the first step toward selling corn in Europe,'' he said. ''We're optimistic we'll receive word from the European Commission in a timely fashion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (92%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); LIVESTOCK FEED (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (71%); PRODUCT LABELING (71%); FOOD LABELING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%) Grain; Genetics and Heredity; International Trade and World Market; Feed; Grain

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (58%); SYNGENTA AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) European Union; Monsanto Co; World Trade Organization

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (58%); SYT (NYSE) (58%); SYNN (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



414 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Is Poised to Tighten Grip on Georgia

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, July 19 

 BODY:
In 2002, Georgia politics seemed to undergo a sudden tilt. Senator Max Cleland, a Democrat, lost his seat to Saxby Chambliss, a Republican. Same with Gov. Roy Barnes, who was ousted by a Republican challenger, Sonny Perdue.
 But this year, no one will be taken by surprise if Georgia's second Senate seat goes to the Republicans, even though it is being vacated by a Democrat, Zell Miller, who is retiring. 
 Mr. Miller, 72, himself personifies a state in political transition. He is a supporter of President Bush who is scheduled to speak at the Republican National Convention and who wrote a book about Democratic politics called ''A National Party No More.'' Local pundits call him a Republicrat.
 Democrats failed to recruit a heavyweight candidate in the Senate race, leaving Tuesday's primary crowded with eight contenders, none with significant statewide experience. It was not for lack of trying. Party leaders were turned down by a host of people, including the lieutenant governor, the secretary of state, a popular former Atlanta mayor, and even Vince Dooley, the University of Georgia's athletic director. 
 Meanwhile, the Republican primary has a clear front-runner in Representative Johnny Isakson, 59, who holds Newt Gingrich's former seat in an affluent suburban district.
 Of the five Senate seats in the South that are being vacated by Democrats, Georgia's is the only one that is not considered a tossup.
 ''It appears that the state Democratic Party has pretty much conceded the state to the Republicans this time,'' said William Boone, a professor of political science at Clark Atlanta University.
 Democrats say they have strong candidates who were simply not prepared to give up their offices, as they would have been required to do under the state's ''resign to run'' law. And, they say, economic troubles will draw people to their tent.
 ''The Democratic candidates are focusing on things that really matter to Georgians,'' said Emil Runge, a spokesman for the state Democratic Party. ''The Republican candidates have spent their entire campaigns this year on a race to the extreme positions in their party. They've really been marginalizing themselves.''
 Mr. Isakson's Republican opponents have accused him of an excess of moderation. One video e-mailed to voters described Mr. Isakson as an abortion-rights advocate because he had voted to allow abortions at military hospitals overseas if they were not paid for by the government. The mailing came from the campaign of Mac Collins, 59, a six-term congressman who represents the area south of Atlanta. Mr. Collins has billed himself as ''100 percent conservative'' and announced that his running mate was ''common sense.''
 Mr. Isakson's other opponent is Herman Cain, a businessman who is a former chairman and chief executive of the Godfather's pizza chain. 
 He is now a motivational speaker and president of a leadership company called T.H.I. Inc., which stands for ''The Hermanator Experience.''
 Mr. Cain, 58, has contributed $775,000 of his own money to his campaign and raised another $2 million. He is the rare African-American Republican candidate, and though he has no political experience he has attracted attention with his smooth oratory.
 ''This is about someone who will challenge the boat, rock the boat, and even drive the boat at times,'' Mr. Cain told the audience at a recent Republican breakfast. He also has a proposal to replace income tax with a national sales tax. 
 All three of the Republican candidates favor the Iraq war, tax cuts and a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. But unlike his opponents, Mr. Isakson has made two previous runs for statewide office, and according to Federal Election Commission filings he has raised $5.4 million, far more than the others.
 The Democratic field is even more unruly, including three lawyers, a real estate broker and two businessmen with virtually no political experience among them.
 The biggest surprise in the race came when Representative Denise L. Majette, in office less than two years, jumped in at almost the last minute. Ms. Majette's candidacy upset some of the supporters who had helped her unseat a five-term incumbent, Representative Cynthia A. McKinney, in 2002.
 Ms. Majette has said that entering the race is in keeping with God's plan. But she has not been able to raise the money she needs to compete with an opponent, W. Cliff Oxford, who was tapped by the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee as a ''self-financer'' who could pay for his own campaign. 
 Still, Mr. Oxford comes with more than his own millions -- he has a 500-page divorce filing in which his wife said he physically abused her. He denies the charge, and she has said she supports his candidacy. 
 Ms. Majette's departure from the House race defused a much-anticipated rematch between her and a subdued Ms. McKinney, who is seeking to regain her seat in the solidly Democratic Fourth District in DeKalb County. 
 Instead, Ms. McKinney faces five opponents in that primary. While she still has supporters and name recognition, she has raised less money than two opponents, Cathy Woolard, a former president of the Atlanta City Council, and State Senator Liane Levetan, who is a former chief executive of the county.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about primaries for the Senate in Georgia misstated the name of the leadership company headed by Herman Cain, who sought the Republican nomination. (He lost.) The company is T.H.E. Inc., not T.H.I.; the initials stand for The Hermanator Experience.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Denise L. Majette, foreground, is among the eight Democrats vying for the Senate seat coming open with Zell Miller's retirement. Ms. Majette was preparing for a debate in Atlanta with the others. (Photo by John Amis/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ABORTION (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%); SUBURBS (51%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (50%) Elections; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%) Senate (US) 

PERSON: JOHNNY ISAKSON (79%); SONNY PERDUE (73%); SAXBY CHAMBLISS (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Johnny (Repr) Isakson; Zell (Sen) Miller; Shaila K Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Georgia

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



415 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Report Suggests Forgetting About Stadium on West Side

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The city should rezone the far West Side of Manhattan for high-rise office and residential development and expand the Javits Convention Center, but abandon its plans to build a $1.4 billion stadium for the Jets, according to a long-awaited report issued yesterday by the Regional Plan Association.
 The report by the association, an influential private planning organization, was a setback for the Jets and the Bloomberg administration, which had sought to scuttle the group's analysis, or at least soften its criticisms. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has made the stadium a central element of his $6.5 billion plan to transform the West Side. The stadium would double as an exhibition hall and as an Olympic stadium if the city wins its bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics. 
 But the association questioned the wisdom of building a stadium, and suggested an alternative: an ambitious residential and commercial development on a platform over the West Side rail yards, along 11th Avenue between 30th and 34th Streets, that ''would take advantage of its waterfront location and Manhattan's persistent demand for new housing locations.''
 ''A stadium is not the only possible use for the site and it may be counterproductive in terms of the agreed upon goal -- revitalizing the West Side district,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the association. ''The experience in North America is that stadiums, particularly football stadiums and dual-use stadiums, have repelled commercial and residential development, not attracted it.''
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff insisted yesterday that the stadium would serve as a catalyst. The Jets, he said, were willing to invest $800 million in the stadium, which would work as an adjunct to the convention center, providing increased revenues that would pay for public improvements and attract other development. The stadium project requires $600 million from the city and the state.
 ''We tried very hard to show the R.P.A. where their analysis is flawed,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''This is a halfhearted recipe that will not produce significant change on the West Side. Our ultimate goal is to produce the kind of place that will be a magnet for developers and for visitors.''
 L. Jay Cross, president of the Jets, called the report ''shortsighted and ill considered.''
 ''I don't think it represents a large consensus of their board,'' Mr. Cross said. ''And I don't think the evidence supports their conclusions.''
 The report did win instant support from some stadium opponents like the Hell's Kitchen/Hudson Yards Alliance, a coalition of community groups and elected officials.
 ''The R.P.A. doubts the stadium will generate enough economic activity to justify its unprecedented public cost, and questions whether the stadium will serve as a viable extension of the Javits,'' said Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, a member of the alliance who represents much of the far West Side. ''The report shows that the stadium would compound the area's traffic congestion and devastates the Bloomberg administration's assumption that few stadium patrons will come by car.''
 But John Fisher, a member of the West Side Coalition, which opposes almost all aspects of the administration's plans to rezone and develop the West Side, charged that the report did not go far enough in questioning the overall appropriateness of the administration's plans for that part of Manhattan, including what he said was the lack of demand for office space and the plan's shaky financial structure.
 The association, made up of dozens of corporate sponsors from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, had hoped to issue a report by its staff in May, but its board came under intense pressure from Mr. Doctoroff and Jay Kriegel, executive director of the city's Olympic bid committee, NYC2012. Paul A. Crotty, a group president at Verizon, and other members of the association's board argued on the city's behalf. But ultimately a majority of board members said the report should be published.
 The Jets and the Bloomberg administration have carefully toted up a list of their own supporters, including Assemblyman Peter M. Rivera of the Bronx; Robert Catell, chairman of KeySpan; William B. Harrison Jr., chairman of J.P. Morgan Chase; the restaurateur Danny Meyer; the Real Estate Board of New York; the Partnership for New York City; and the city's convention and visitors bureau.
 The battle was still being waged yesterday, when Mr. Crotty, Arthur E. Imperatore Jr. of New York Waterway and three other members of the plan association's board issued a letter to reporters lamenting the ''premature'' release of the report ''without adequate participation of the board.'' 
 But Peter W. Herman, chairman of the association, said the issue had received the most intensive review in his 34 years with the organization. Only a handful of the board's 56 members expressed dissent, he said. The city and team's project has been battered by criticism from several civic groups and especially by millions of dollars' worth of television commercials that question the wisdom of the state and city investing $600 million in a stadium when public money is needed for schools and health care. The ads are the work of the Dolan family, which controls Cablevision and Madison Square Garden and views the proposed stadium as a competing site. 
 The controversy surrounding the stadium has even ensnared a bill providing for the $1.4 billion expansion of the adjacent Javits Convention Center, which has nearly unanimous support. The bill, which was sponsored by Gov. George E. Pataki, ran into stiff opposition last month because, critics said, it contained language linking the convention center to the stadium.
 The plan association's report yesterday endorsed the expansion of the Javits and recommended developing the West Side in stages. It said the city should proceed with rezoning, but hold off until 2010 on the $2 billion extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square west to 11th Avenue and south to 34th Street, which would spur intensive development. The delay, the report said, would give Lower Manhattan an additional five years for rebuilding before it begins to compete with office projects on the West Side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); OLYMPICS (69%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%) Stadiums and Arenas; Football; Area Planning and Renewal; Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%) New York Jets

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Daniel L (Deputy Mayor) Doctoroff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City; West Side (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



416 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEW MEXICO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: A Hispanic Electorate With Many Variations

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE 

 BODY:
The crowd was cheering wildly as John Kerry, John Edwards and their spouses danced around one another on the open-air stage at the National Hispanic Cultural Center. Then Teresa Heinz Kerry took her turn at the microphone and said, ''I am an immigrant, too,'' clearly making a bid for the many Hispanics in the audience.
 This time the applause was lukewarm and there was some head-shaking; many Hispanic families have been in New Mexico for generations and some take a dim view of immigrants.
 ''You know what the problem is with this state?'' said Erlindo Castillo, a librarian in Santa Fe, in an interview afterward. ''Too many Mexicans.'' 
 ''They come here for the free services and to take our jobs, and then they send all the money back across the border,'' said Ms. Castillo, an American flag in one hand, a Kerry poster in the other. 
 With a population of just 1.8 million people spread across 121,666 square miles, New Mexico has the largest percentage of Hispanic residents -- 42 percent -- of any state. And at a time when both major political parties are struggling to attract Hispanics, who make up the country's fastest-growing voter demographic, New Mexico is prized as a laboratory for how to get that done.
 Indeed, that experiment may well hold the key to this year's presidential election in this swing state.
 So despite its mere five electoral votes, New Mexico has become a focus of both parties. President Bush and Senator Kerry have both been here several times this year, and Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards included the state in their first joint campaign swing. 
 The commercials on New Mexico television started almost as soon as the primaries wound down. Between March 13 and early June, the Bush campaign spent $883,538 on them, compared with $829,224 for the Kerry campaign and about a half-million dollars more for Democratic-leaning political groups.
 Recently, both the Kerry and Bush campaigns announced a round of Spanish-language advertising to run in key states, including New Mexico.
 But courting Hispanics is complicated and nuanced in a state where some families of Spanish heritage trace their lineage back to the 17th and 18 centuries and others are more recent arrivals from Mexico and other Latin American nations.
 Issues like immigration or bilingual education, which candidates can use to appeal broadly to Hispanic voters in other states, do not always hit the mark so neatly here. Voters in New Mexico from old-line Hispanic families can share a cultural identification with newcomers, but have very different views on such touchstone issues.
 The Hispanic vote here has gone solidly Democratic in recent decades, and is expected to do so again. But Republicans hope that a strategy of appealing to more conservative old-liners with a message of traditional family values and to bedrock Roman Catholics by stressing opposition to abortion will peel away enough votes to make the difference.
 When he was governor in neighboring Texas, Mr. Bush embraced his state's growing Mexican-American population and ran better among Hispanics than Republicans usually do. 
 Republicans say their hope is not to win the Hispanic vote here, but to woo enough from the Democrats to supplement the party's white conservative base. In 2000, Al Gore carried New Mexico by a slim 366 votes, making it a blue island in a sea of Rocky Mountain red.
 ''I think about that number all the time,'' said Sheriff Darren White of Bernalillo County, who is running President Bush's campaign in the state's most populous county. ''We don't intend to let it happen again.''
 Of course, many Hispanic voters here are firmly Democratic, like John P. Sanchez. Recently retired after 25 years as a law enforcement officer in the impoverished Rio Grande Valley, Mr. Sanchez had his medal-studded Vietnam Veterans cap pulled tight across his forehead as he watched Mr. Kerry address the crowd in Albuquerque.
 ''For me, this is about us having kids over there in Iraq, dying for no good reason,'' Mr. Sanchez said. ''Republicans are crazy if they think they're going to get the Hispanic vote in New Mexico this year. They come here and say a couple of words of Spanish? What is that to me, you know what I mean?''
 But there are pitfalls for the unwary, involving questions of identity and self-perception.
 To many Hispanic families in New Mexico, especially in the northern mountains, the English speakers who trickled down the Santa Fe Trail in the 19th century were using the new highway. Their ancestors had come up the Camino Real, from Spanish colonies to the south. 
 ''What makes us most unique is that we have this very old group of Hispanics whose ancestors came here starting in the 1600's,'' said F. Chris Garcia, formerly president of the University of New Mexico and now a political scientist there.
 ''The old-line families, even those who are still living in poverty, have very ambivalent views about these newcomers, and it shows in views about border issues and other things,'' Professor Garcia said. 
 Until the New Deal, the predominantly Roman Catholic, Hispanic community here voted solidly Republican. Since then, Hispanics have been steadfast Democrats, voting 62 percent for Mr. Gore in 2000. But Hispanic turnout, in all age groups, has consistently been significantly lower than turnout for whites, blunting the impact they might otherwise have.
 For Republicans, the strategy here is to appeal to the conservatism of the Hispanics by speaking of traditional family values and abortion. 
 Nazarena Martinez and her husband own a 132-acre horse ranch called Cielito Lindo, or Beautiful Sky, on the eastern slopes of the Manzano Mountains. Her family has been in New Mexico for three centuries. 
 ''My grandpa was a Republican, and when a lot of other families turned Democrat under Franklin Roosevelt, we stayed Republican,'' she said. ''In their heart, I believe, the Spanish people in New Mexico share with Republicans the values of faith, family and property rights. We believe that you do what you want with your own land. And I think once this is made clear to people, there will be many more Hispanics for President Bush.'' 
 Elsewhere, one hears a different story. Christine Trujillo lives in Albuquerque but was born and raised in Taos County on land granted to her family in the late 1600's. ''We're pretty typical,'' she said. ''Land rich and dirt poor.'' 
 Now, she is the president of the New Mexico Federation of Education Employees, and a strong supporter of Mr. Kerry. ''Only in the last 10 years have the party people begun to realize that we are a huge voting bloc,'' Ms. Trujillo said. ''But the truth is that the Republican Party here has never had a place at the table for us. And now they want to attract us with single-issue appeals like abortion? That is such garbage.'' 
 New Mexico is the nation's fifth-largest state, in terms of area, but 36th by population. This translates into vast stretches of nothing, a high and dry landscape of parched scrublands and mesas covered with mesquite, sagebrush and ponderosa pine.
 A third of the state's population is in Bernalillo County, home to the state's largest city, Albuquerque, and its nearest suburbs. And Albuquerque's political influence is even greater when fast-growing suburbs in neighboring counties are included. 
 Albuquerque's politics are fluid; the richer neighborhoods of the Northeast Heights tend to go Republican, while the working-class South Valley, predominantly Hispanic, goes heavily Democratic. In 2000, the metropolitan area went to Mr. Gore, but also elected a Republican to Congress, Heather A. Wilson.
 The Democratic stronghold in New Mexico is in the north, along both sides of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, from Santa Fe to Taos to the Colorado line, an area of liberal activism and vacation homes that one local historian called the ''movie star and mysticism belt.'' But Democrats, buoyed by a growing Hispanic vote along the Mexican border, have also done well in recent elections in Dona Ana County, home to Las Cruces, the state's second-largest city. 
 For Republicans, the stronghold is in the east, the ranchlands called Little Texas whose landscape, population and voting patterns are barely distinguishable from those of neighboring West Texas. Republicans also see hope in growing suburban areas like Rio Rancho, northwest of Albuquerque, and more distant exurbs in adjacent Sandoval County. 
 The question is, who are the people who have moved into Rio Rancho and Las Cruces and Santa Fe since the last election? Are they the same conservative retirees from elsewhere in the Sun Belt who have been moving here for decades, or are they, as Democrats hope, part of a new wave of more liberal refugees from the Northeast and the West Coast? 
 At a recent Republican barbeque, Barbara Longeway, chairwoman of the Sandoval County Bush campaign, wore a T-shirt reading, ''Friends Don't Let Friends Vote Democrat.'' 
 ''I see a few bumper stickers around here for Kerry, but not too many,'' she said. ''So I'm pretty confident.'' 
 The Democrats also feel confident. Recent voter registration data shows a rise in the proportion of Democrats since 2000, said Moses Mercado, Mr. Kerry's state campaign director, now 52 percent, up from 47 percent. And while an April poll by the American Research Group found Mr. Bush's and Mr. Kerry's popularity tied at 47 percent, a June poll taken by the group just prior to Mr. Kerry's selection of Mr. Edwards as his running mate saw some movement in Mr. Kerry's direction.
 The key, leaders from both parties say, will be how well the Democrats turn out the Hispanic vote. ''It's absolutely pivotal for us,'' said John Wertheim, the state Democratic chairman.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Sanchez, left, a Democrat, exemplifies just one point on the state's Hispanic political spectrum. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)Chart: ''A Close Race in a Bellwether State''Of all the swing states, none may be harder to call than New Mexico, whose five electoral votes Al Gore won in 2000 by a mere 366 votes.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized according to the total number who voted and shaded by the winning candidate.Chart shows total votes casted for Gore and Bush in each county.MARGIN OF VICTORYIn percentage points in past presidential elections.2000DEMOCRATIC: 0.1 VICTORY1996DEMOCRATIC: 71988REPUBLICAN: 51984REPUBLICAN: 201980REPUBLICAN: 18NEW MEXICO'S ECONOMYGraphs track New Mexico's economy in the following areas since 1999:Change in real household income versus year earlier.Change in median home price versus year earlier.Unemployment rate.Percentage without health insurance. (tracked since 1997)ELECTED OFFICIALSGOV.REPUBLICAN: 0DEMOCRAT: 1SENATORSREPUBLICAN: 1DEMOCRAT: 1REPS.REPUBLICAN: 2DEMOCRAT: 1DEMOGRAPHICSBLACKN.M.: 2%U.S.: 12HISPANIC:N.M.: 42%U.S.: 13INDIANN.M.: 9%U.S.: 1MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOMEN.M.: $35,251U.S.: $43,052(Sources by Dave Leips Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)Map of New Mexico highlighting the following counties:AlbuquerqueRio RanchoSanta FeFarmingtonLas CrucesAlamogordoRoswellClovis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FAMILY (89%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (87%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (84%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); REFUGEES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Hispanic-Americans; Election Issues; Political Advertising; Spanish Language; Presidential Election of 2004; Immigration and Refugees; Education and Schools; Bilingual Education; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); AL GORE (64%) Rick Lyman; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (77%) New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



417 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: 2 Tribune Publishers Retire Amid Circulation Investigations

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The Tribune Company said yesterday that Raymond Jansen, the publisher of Newsday, and Louis Sito, the publisher of Hoy, the company's Spanish-language daily, were retiring early and under pressure.
 The announcement came hours after Newsday published a four-page examination that provided new details of how the two papers had exaggerated circulation figures in recent years.
 Among the findings of a team of four Newsday reporters was that Newsday, based in Melville, N.Y., had long increased its readership numbers by delivering free (and often unsolicited) copies to people's homes, and then counting them as paid. In some instances, the reporters found, papers were delivered to people who had died or whose homes had burned down. 
 A memorandum to Tribune employees sent yesterday by Dennis J. FitzSimons, the chairman, president and chief executive, said that the reports of inflated circulation at the two papers -- which the company first disclosed last month --''impacted our stock price.'' Shares of Tribune closed at $42.44, an increase of 21 cents from Friday. But the shares have lost nearly $5 since June 17, when the company first acknowledged the inflation of circulation figures.
 ''Our top priority is to resolve the circulation issues in New York as quickly as possible,'' Mr. FitzSimons wrote. ''It is a complex situation, but we are making progress.''
 In addition to providing new leadership in the midst of the scandal, the management changes also serve to further cement the Tribune's hold on Newsday and Hoy, both of them formerly owned by Times Mirror. Since acquiring Times Mirror in 2000, Tribune, based in Chicago, has replaced all of the publishers and most of the top editors of the other major papers in the chain, including The Los Angeles Times.
 Tribune said in a news release that Mr. Jansen, the publisher of Newsday since 1994, would be succeeded by Timothy P. Knight, who was named the newspaper's president and chief operating officer less than a month ago. Mr. Knight, 38, a lawyer who joined Newsday in February 2003 as executive vice president and general manager, previously worked as a vice president for The Chicago Tribune.
 In a letter to Newsday employees, Mr. Jansen, who turned 65 on Sunday, said he had long planned to retire by the end of the year -- but that his departure, which now takes effect Aug. 15, had been accelerated by Tribune's disclosures last month that the paper had inflated its average weekday circulation by 40,000 copies for the year ended last September, and had exaggerated its Sunday circulation by 60,000 copies. 
 ''Understanding what our management has to do to repair the damage to our circulation credibility,'' Mr. Jansen wrote to the paper's employees, ''it became apparent that my departure date should be sooner than anticipated.''
 Mr. Jansen was quoted in Newsday yesterday as saying that the inflation of circulation figures -- which the paper now says may have begun in 2001, or even earlier -- was a result of ''a rogue operation.'' But in a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Knight appeared to distance himself from those comments.
 ''Those are Ray's words,'' he said, referring to Mr. Jansen. ''I'm not going to characterize them.''
 Mr. Knight said that the paper's investigation of its circulation practices was continuing, and that he expected to report its findings in the next month or so.
 ''My immediate focus,'' he said, ''is to rebuild the trust we have with our advertisers, readers, employees and communities.''
 Tribune also announced the immediate departure of Mr. Sito, the publisher, president and chief executive of Hoy, the Spanish-language daily that it publishes in New York, as well as Chicago and Los Angeles. Mr. Sito, 60, a longtime Newsday executive who helped found Hoy in 1998, will be succeeded as publisher, on an interim basis, by Digby Solomon Diez, vice president and general manager of Hoy's Chicago edition.
 Mr. Solomon, 50, has worked for Tribune for 14 years, including stints as director and general manager of Exito, a predecessor of the Chicago edition of Hoy.
 Tribune said that Timothy Kennedy, vice president for strategy and development for the company's publishing unit since 2001, would become interim chief operating officer of Hoy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); SCANDALS (69%) Newspapers; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Newspapers

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%); NEWSDAY INC (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Tribune Co; Newsday; Hoy (Spanish-Language Newspaper)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (79%) Jacques Steinberg; Raymond Jansen; Digby Solomon Diez; Timothy P Knight; Louis Sito

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



418 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of the Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Nets' Future Is an Arena In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
AS the rookie owner of the Nets, Bruce C. Ratner found himself last week in a pressurized position not unfamiliar to his point man, Jason Kidd. Ratner had the ball in his hands with time running out, boxed in a bind.
 Unlike Kidd, the real estate developer doesn't have eyes in the back of his head. New to the game, Ratner never saw the Denver Nuggets' $23 million up-front bonus offer to Kenyon Martin coming. 
 ''We had already decided we were going to match because we figured the bonus would be $10 million, with a trade kicker of about 6 percent,'' Ratner said. ''Then Rod said, 'Well, it's a $23 million bonus and a 15 percent trade kicker.'''
 It was last Wednesday afternoon, lunchtime, and Rod Thorn, the Nets' president, was on the telephone giving Ratner the bad news on the Denver offer sheet Martin was ready to sign. Here Ratner was, not yet officially anointed as a team owner by the N.B.A., and already next season was hanging in the balance, along with his reputation as a spender and a sportsman. 
 In all, the offer was $83 million for a very good player, not a great one. This was the opinion of Thorn and the outgoing owners who all resisted giving Martin the so-called max money as far back as last summer, or long before Ratner entered the picture. And given the punitive front-loaded nature of the deal, it was enough to convince Ratner to turn over his power forward for draft picks and get back on defense against the crush of criticism to come.
 ''I had a split decision to make,'' he said, commenting for the first time on it, in his downtown Brooklyn office. ''I know I did the right thing.''
 He knows this the way Jerry Buss must be sure the smart play was unloading Shaquille O'Neal and handing his Lakers over to Kobe Bryant. The Lakers are not title contenders anymore without Shaq, and the Nets, without Martin, are no longer among the Eastern Conference elite. They may not see the finals again for another 30 years. Or maybe, just maybe, it will turn out as Ratner promises: the Nets will be restructured after next season, with the acquired draft picks and the kind of salary cap maneuverability Isiah Thomas and the Knicks would die for. 
 ''We will have a good team but talk is talk and doing is doing,'' Ratner said. ''The proof will be in the pudding.''
 In the meantime, Brooklyn Bruce is the obvious target for the offended fans and for the critics who lament the breakup of Kidd, Martin and Richard Jefferson, an engaging, up-tempo trio that made the Nets a smash hit the last three years, everywhere but at the box office. 
 ''I'm the kind of person who thinks that if you do what you think is right and people don't agree and are critical, you still have yourself and your beliefs,'' Ratner said.
 Some people believe that all Ratner wants from the Nets is an arena in downtown Brooklyn, surrounded by apartment buildings. About his intentions, think what you will, but the reaction to the Martin trade was a bit hysterical, as was the sympathy and deification of Thorn following the disassembling of his prize work.
 If there is blame to give, he deserves some of it, too. A year ago, Thorn and the Nets were raising balloons and Champagne glasses to Kidd when he re-signed for $103 million and ordered up another $23 million for his friend, Alonzo Mourning. Thorn knew at the time that the YankeeNets ownership was unraveling, the franchise a money drain even as an N.B.A. finalist.
 In the face of a reckoning that a high school accounting student could have foreseen, the Nets kept spending. When a visionary move was possible, when Kidd might have been sent to his suitor in San Antonio for the younger, cheaper Tony Parker, Thorn and the Nets made the popular play. They had a window to thank Kidd for the memories, to save their money for Martin and Jefferson. Against all economic logic, the Nets were operated as if they played in a sold-out arena, with millions in luxury suite riches.
 ''We don't play in a Staples Center,'' Ratner said.
 Not now, or at least for another three and a half years, which is when Ratner believes the arena in downtown Brooklyn will be ready. For now, there is a price to pay for the free-spending ways. Martin goes, and Kidd is unhappy and probably wants to leave, too. Good luck unloading the crazy money of a 31-year-old guard with a questionable knee. 
 Ratner said he wants Kidd to stay, and with Jefferson to be the nucleus the Nets build around. Money will be spent, he promised. He said he factored in operating deficits when he bought the team last winter. Twenty million dropped in a year is one thing. If you added the Martin contract, including the $23 million bonus, the estimated $20 million in luxury taxes and the $8 million in salary, what would you get? 
 ''Just too much, not a wise business decision,'' Ratner said in downtown Brooklyn yesterday, where the dream is an arena over the Atlantic Avenue railyards, and Kenyon Martin has long been forgotten.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce C. Ratner (Photo by John Marshal Mentel/Associated Press)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (57%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); News and News Media; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); DENVER NUGGETS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%) New Jersey Nets; Denver Nuggets

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (56%) Harvey Araton; Kenyon Martin; Bruce Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



419 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: CAMPAIGN MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Issue by Issue, Rivals See 2 Very Different Americas

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
They campaign in the same places: rural stretches of West Virginia, the suburbs of Philadelphia, farm country in Ohio. They talk about the same issues: the economy, tax cuts, the war in Iraq, the nation's security. They are scrapping for many of the same voters.
 But what they are saying could hardly be more different. 
 To spend a few days with President Bush and Senator John Kerry as they test the stump speeches they are preparing for the fall campaign is to hear two starkly different visions of where the nation is and where it should be going. This emerging debate suggests that after years in which major party candidates sought to win elections by blurring their differences, these two men are preparing for a contest of striking contrasts. 
 One day Mr. Bush is heralding his tax cuts as the engine that, as he told voters recently in Wisconsin, has lifted the nation into an economic recovery. He describes the economy as ''strong and getting stronger.'' Two days later, Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, is in West Virginia calling those same tax cuts a threat to health care and education, and a burden that has saddled the nation with a debt that is throttling hope for long-term prosperity. 
 Mr. Kerry looks to Iraq and sees a war that has demoralized this country, caused the needless deaths of young Americans, spawned new terrorists in the Middle East and alienated allies around the world. Mr. Bush looks at the same war and sees an American enterprise that removed a dangerous dictator, struck a blow against terrorism and is fostering the growth of democracy. 
 Mr. Kerry talks about health care as he promotes an ambitious plan to expand coverage for the uninsured and lower health insurance costs for middle- and lower-income Americans. When Mr. Bush raises the same subject, he talks fleetingly about his considerably more modest plan for tax credits to help low and moderate-income families buy insurance. The president grows more animated in denouncing trial lawyers whose malpractice lawsuits, he said, have driven health care costs out of control. Not incidentally, that allows Mr. Bush to throw an elbow at Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards, a trial lawyer who made millions suing doctors in North Carolina.
 There are some parallels between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry as they take their shows on the road. Both are campaigning in some of the more remote parts of the United States, seeking support from rural voters. And both certainly like to talk, and tend to go on a rather long time -- 40 minutes at a clip for Mr. Bush and generally about 30 minutes for Mr. Kerry, though he has been known to go considerably longer. At a certain point, even the most partisan of crowds grow a little restless with both candidates. 
 But otherwise the similarities are few. On Iraq and the economy, on the United States' place in the world and the candidates' views of each other, it sometimes seems as if Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry are campaigning in different countries.
 ''We're not going to have one of those elections where it's mealy-mouthed, and you can't tell the difference between the two candidates,'' Mr. Kerry said Friday night in Crystal City, Va., a rare instance of his saying something with which Mr. Bush would almost certainly concur.
 Part of this unusually clear choice is a reflection of these polarized times. With their sometimes less-than-nuanced statements, attacking each other and articulating sharply defended positions, Mr. Bush and, to a lesser extent, Mr. Kerry are trying to energize their most hard-core supporters to turn out and vote. 
 The debate so far suggests how Mr. Bush's decision to govern forcefully from the right in the wake of the 2000 election, particularly on the issue of tax cuts, has produced a counterreaction among Democrats, a reaction that is in turn producing an unusually unambiguous choice for voters this fall. 
 ''This economy is strong and it's growing stronger,'' Mr. Bush declared as heads nodded at the Waukesha County Exposition Center, deep in the suburbs of Milwaukee. ''Tax relief is working. It's working. Since last August we've added 1.5 million new jobs. People are going back to work.''
 Mr. Kerry, speaking at the Crystal City fund-raiser, asked: ''What does it mean when you turn around and look outside the White House and there are people wrapped up, sleeping in blankets outside the lawn of the White House and homelessness is growing?''
 He continued: ''What we're going to do is crisscross this nation and talk the truth to the American people, the truth about how you put America to work. The truth about a tax cut that we cannot afford and that we will roll back so we can invest in health, in education, in jobs.''
 The differences between the two men are not only clear in what they say but also in what they do not talk about. Mr. Kerry talks about measures to protect the environment, as he denounces ''rolling back laws that we spent 35 years to put in place to give us cleaner air to breathe or cleaner water to drink.''
 Mr. Bush does not. 
 He at times alludes to his support for a constitutional amendment to bar gay marriage. ''We stand for institutions like marriage and family, which are the foundations of society,'' he said at a rally near Green Bay.
 That is a subject that Mr. Kerry is not likely to raise.
 And Mr. Bush always invokes the attacks of Sept. 11, recounting evocatively and emotionally his visit to the World Trade Center site after the attacks. His campaign speeches are filled with promises to make the nation safer. ''I'll never forget that day,'' he said recently while campaigning in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, telling a story that always hushes the crowd. ''There were workers in hard hats shouting, 'Whatever it takes.' A guy grabbed me by the arm -- he was a firefighter or a policeman -- his eyes were bloodshot. He said, 'Don't you let me down.'''
 Mr. Kerry, a senator from Massachusetts, cannot match the drama of the presidential stories about that week. Instead, he invokes the attack to pay tribute to municipal workers who perished; he is backed by the union representing firefighters. At a recent rally his aides played ''The Rising,'' a Bruce Springsteen song about the struggle to regroup after the terrorist attacks.
 Though both men talk about values, the similarities end with that word. For Mr. Bush, values are defined with references to church, marriage between men and women, and restrictions on abortion. In Wisconsin, he emphasized his support for the law banning what it calls partial-birth abortion and for legislation requiring notification of parents when their teenagers seek an abortion. ''Yet on these positions that so many Americans share, my opponent is on the other side,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Mr. Kerry talks about values as a measure of the how the government and its officials are leading the country. ''Values are something you live, in the choices of your budget, in the people that you choose to help, in the things that you do every day to lift America up and take it to a better place,'' he said in New York this month. 
 Stylistically, the Republican and the Democrat are different as well. Mr. Bush's rallies are played against a backdrop of country music and stirring patriotic tunes. Mr. Kerry is more likely to turn to Mr. Springsteen. 
 Mr. Bush's rallies are much more elaborately produced: his bus rolled right into an indoor arena in Wisconsin with a burst of smoke and colored lights that might seen more fitting to a discotheque than a presidential rally, before depositing him by the stage. And he appears to enjoy campaigning more than Mr. Kerry does.
 Mr. Bush does draw the bigger crowd, though he has the advantage of being president. It is not unusual to encounter people in his audience who waited six hours to get tickets, including the occasional spectator who might not even plan to vote for him.
 ''I'm here to see a president,'' said Lynn Bressette, 40, a nurse from Marquette, Mich. 
 Ms. Bressette said she waited six hours for a ticket, but in this crowd she described herself sotto voce as ''a Kerry Democrat.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)Chart: ''Kerry vs. Bush. The Word From the Trail.''Quotations from speeches given by Senator John Kerry and President Bush this month.Tax Cuts and the Economy''George Bush wants to defend giving a tax cut that's permanent to people who earn more than $200,000 a year. I'm fighting to roll back George Bush's unaffordable tax cut for the wealthy and invest it in health care, education, job creation and to build America again.''Mr. KerryJuly 15, Charleston, W. Va.''This nation is on the path to progress, and we will not turn back. To sustain this economic growth, we need to keep taxes low. Higher taxes right now would undermine growth and destroy jobs. To help grow the American economy and create more jobs, I have a better idea than raising taxes. We need to make the tax relief permanent. We ought not to be raising taxes on the American people.''Mr. BushJuly 14, Ashwaubenon, Wis.The War in Iraq''The obligation of the commander in chief of the United States is to be able to look parents in the eyes, look a family in the eyes and be able to say to them, 'I tried to do everything in my power to avoid the loss of your son or daughter. But the threat was so real, the threat was so imminent, we had no choice.' And I believe that this president failed that test in Iraq.''Mr. KerryJuly 16, Crystal City, Va.''Although we have not found stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction, we were right to go into Iraq. And America is safer today because we did. We removed a declared enemy of America who had the capability of producing weapons of mass destruction and could have passed that capability to terrorists bent on acquiring them. In the world after Sept. 11, that was a risk we could not afford to take.''Mr. BushJuly 13, Marquette, Mich.Values''Values are not words. Values are not just something you throw out in politics, and say I've got more values than this person or that person. Values are something you live, in the choices of your budget, in the people that you choose to help, in the things that you do every day to lift America up and take it to a better place.''Mr. KerryJuly 9, New York City''The other day my opponent said, when he was with some entertainers from Hollywood, that they were the heart and soul of America. I believe the heart and soul of America is found in places right here, in Marquette, Mich. We are strong because of the values we try to live by: courage and compassion, reverence and integrity. We're strong because of the institutions that help give us direction and purpose: our families, our schools and our religious congregations.''Mr. BushJuly 13, Marquette, Mich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (87%); TERRORISM (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FAMILY (72%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); LITIGATION (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); LAWYERS (62%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; United States Economy; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (58%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



420 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Governors Join As 'Big Four' To Pool Clout

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ and AL BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
It is a lobbying dream team that calls itself The Big Four: a Hollywood star turned politician, a formidable East Coast fund-raiser, a close friend of the president and the president's little brother.
 They are among the nation's most prominent Republican governors -- Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, George E. Pataki of New York, Rick Perry of Texas and Jeb Bush of Florida -- and they are increasingly concerned that smaller states are gobbling up more than their fair share of federal aid, particularly because of the disproportionate clout those states have in Congress.
 So these governors are pooling their considerable political influence to advance the interests of their states, in a move that has caught the attention of politicians and power brokers along K Street in Washington. ''Very impressive,'' said Bill Paxon, an influential Washington lobbyist who was thought of as a potential speaker of the House before he left Congress in 1999. ''In the lobbying world, it just doesn't get any better than that.'' 
 The alliance represents the first time in recent memory that the governors of the nation's four most populous states have entered into a formal agreement to jointly lobby members of Congress, according to political historians and analysts.
 But more than that, it brings together some of the biggest names in the Republican Party: Mr. Schwarzenegger, who provides star power to the party; Mr. Pataki, who offers a Rolodex of wealthy Wall Street donors and is the longest-serving governor in the nation; Mr. Perry, who was George W. Bush's trusted lieutenant governor before Mr. Bush handed the job of governor to him; and Mr. Bush, who is, well, a Bush.
 The men brought their combined weight to bear last week in a letter adorned with the seals of their states -- informing Republican Congressional leaders, by way of introduction, that there was a new political force to be reckoned with here in the nation's capital.
 ''As governors of the four most populous states, we represent over one-third of the nation's gross domestic product,'' the July 15 letter said pointedly. ''Our states employ over 43 million people and represent the largest agricultural, manufacturing, technology, tourism and service-based economies in the country.''
 Specifically, the governors' soapbox agenda runs the gamut from predictable national issues (tax cuts, job creation and new energy sources) to obscure homegrown matters (stanching the flow of Hollywood jobs overseas and keeping alive the flow of post-Sept. 11 aid to New York.)
 Politically, the governors cover the entire spectrum of thought within their party -- from Mr. Pataki and Mr. Schwarzenegger, both moderates, to Mr. Perry and Mr. Bush, who are more conservative.
 The alliance stems from a sense that in Congress, small states have more power in proportion to their populations than large states have, particularly when it comes to securing federal money, according to people who were involved in the discussions to bring the men together.
 The idea began taking shape several months ago, after the chief Washington lobbyists for all four governors decided to start meeting weekly to explore ways to advance their common interests in Congress.
 At the same time, the governors themselves had an opportunity to speak directly at a National Governors Association meeting last February in Washington. Mr. Schwarzenegger, who had just been sworn in, buttonholed Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bush, separately, and floated the idea, according to one account given by an aide to Mr. Schwarzenegger.
 ''To give credit where credit is due, the California folks were very aggressive about putting this together,'' said one New York official involved in the efforts to bring the governors together. ''This was one of their big things.''
 This is not to say that there have not been major obstacles in their path. All sides, for example, saw a benefit to banding together to seek as much federal transportation aid as possible. But no consensus could be reached, mostly because New York wanted the money for mass transit while Texas wanted it for highways, according to people involved in those discussions.
 In the end, all four governors agreed to sign their names to the letter, which was sent to J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House; Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader; and two other powerful Congressional Republicans.
 It amounted to a three-page wish list. The letter was on stationery bearing an image of the map of the United States with New York, Texas, California and Florida in relief and the governor's names printed neatly below it.
 It is unclear whether the governors will get everything they want. But people in and out of government agreed that the four men would get an ear in Washington, based on who they are and the states they represent.
 ''Listen, they are influential governors, and they will always play a role in the political process,'' said John Feehery, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert. 
 In New York, Gerald Benjamin, a political scientist and the dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University of New York at New Paltz, agrees, saying he has never seen a coalition like this one before.
 ''It obviously has partisan force because these are Republican governors in big states that will count in the national presidential election,'' he said.
 Mr. Benjamin said it would be interesting to see if the group endures and forms a joint lobbying office in Washington with a common staff, because natural tensions could divide the governors.
 ''The big states might want more money and might get together for big issues at a particular time, but the convergence of interests might be pulled apart over time as different areas of policy come up where they have different priorities,'' he said.
 Besides wielding their personal prestige, these governors potentially hold direct sway in the House, where the delegations of New York, California, Texas and Florida total 139 representatives, or nearly a third of all members of the House, as the governors note in their letter. But whether these members can be organized into a single bloc is an open question, given the regional and ideological differences.
 ''I've never heard of anything like this,'' said Howard Wolfson, a Democratic strategist who is the former executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''It seems fairly unprecedented. But given the fact that smaller states have disproportionate power in Congress, it makes sense that these big states get together like this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeb Bush, Rick Perry, Arnold Schwarzenegger and George E. Pataki. (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); TAX LAW (70%); JOB CREATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); HISTORY (51%) Lobbying and Lobbyists; Governors (US); States (US)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); RICK PERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Raymond Hernandez; Al Baker; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; George E (Gov) Pataki; Jeb (Gov) Bush; Rick (Gov) Perry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New York State; California; Florida; Texas; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004



421 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: As National Geographic explores obesity, critics question the food ads in its children's magazine

BYLINE: By Nat Ives

 BODY:
JUST as National Geographic magazine is tackling obesity in a cover story called ''The Heavy Cost of Fat,'' its younger sibling, National Geographic Kids, is being accused of contributing to the obesity problem by running ads for unhealthy food.
 The Center for Science in the Public Interest has sent a letter to the National Geographic Society, publisher of the magazines, complaining about the ads for products like Hostess cupcakes and Kellogg's Smorz cereal in the publications.
 ''It is unconscionable that the National Geographic Society, with its esteemed reputation and longstanding educational mission for both adults and children, has chosen to cram National Geographic Kids magazine with advertisements for sugary cereals, candy and snack foods,'' the letter says.
 Rainer Jenss, the publisher of National Geographic Kids, said that the criticism would be carefully considered. ''We are going to sit down and go line by line over the points that they made,'' he said. 
 But parents are the real gatekeepers between Madison Avenue and their children, Mr. Jenss said, noting that internal research showed that most children read the magazine with their parents. Moreover, parents increased the magazine's circulation to 1.2 million from 700,000 during the 17 months examined by the Center for Science, he said.
 The exchange is just the latest squabble over obesity. 
 In May, the National Advertising Review Council published a paper called ''Guidance for Food Advertising Self-Regulation,'' saying its purpose was to advise marketers on advertising responsibly when 15.3 percent of children ages 5 to 11 and 15.5 percent of adolescents ages 12 to 19 are obese. The levels are three times what they were in 1980.
 Last month, Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa, proposed broad legislation aimed at reducing health care costs by providing better preventive care and promoting healthier lifestyles. The bill would, among other things, restore to the Federal Trade Commission the power to restrict advertising to children.
 The bill has gone to the Finance Committee and is not likely to become law soon, but was introduced as a possible plan, said Maureen Knightly, communications director for Mr. Harkin. ''Realizing there is not one sure-shot solution, he wanted to lay down a marker,'' she said.
 Even so, Michael F. Jacobson, executive director of the Center for Science, said the National Geographic Society should meet a higher standard than, say, Saturday morning cartoons. The complaints stem from the May issue of National Geographic Kids, which arrived wrapped in an ad for Arby's, the sandwich shop chain, that was marked ''advertisement'' at the top but otherwise resembled the actual magazine cover.
 Keith Gordon, vice president for brand development at Arby's, part of the Triarc Companies, said Arby's offered a variety of food and included nutritional information on its Web site. ''Arby's offers guests of all ages a range of menu options and continues to explore menu additions that provide guests nutritional balance,'' he said. Arby's Adventure Meals come with a pocket-size issue of National Geographic Kids.
 Ad pages in National Geographic Kids grew 7.5 percent from January through June, compared with the period last year, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. 
 Mr. Jenss, the publisher, said advertising provides crucial financing for the magazine's educational mission. ''We do accept advertising from these companies because, from a pure economic standpoint, they're the ones with the advertising budgets and the marketing dollars to reach kids this way,'' he said. ''If this helps us to fulfill our mission to get information out to young people in a respectful way, and in a way that adheres to advertising and editorial guidelines, we will continue to do that.''
 Many in the food industry and elsewhere argue that obesity remains a problem of personal or parental responsibility, not something that requires the intervention of government or advocacy groups. 
 The Onion, the satirical publication, advanced that argument in a recent issue. An article about the search for a ''cure'' quotes a fictional Oklahoma City resident who says she ''came down'' with obesity two years after she got married: '''I know it was hard for my husband to watch me suffer from the disease. When he caught obesity a year later, he got so depressed, he couldn't do anything but sit on the couch. Some days, we sit and watch television from dawn till dusk, hoping for news of a breakthrough.'''
 The August issue of the National Geographic magazine explores factors like genetics, a variety of diet plans, larger meal sizes at restaurants, sedentary living and, near the end, a sea of commercials that floods children with images of food like Double Delight Oreos.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The May issue of National Geographic Kids arrived wrapped in an ad for Arby's that resembled the actual magazine cover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NUTRITION (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (77%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); TELEPHONE BILLING FRAUD (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (67%); BRANDING (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WENDY'S CO (60%); KELLOGG CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (83%); CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (58%)

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (60%); K (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



422 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: $1 Billion Is Pledged to Help Haiti Rebuild, Topping Request

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20 

 BODY:
International donors pledged $1.08 billion on Tuesday to help rebuild Haiti, surpassing the $924 million requested by the interim Haitian government.
 The United States committed about $230 million over two years, part of a desperately needed infusion for the country, which is struggling for political stability and basic services.
 ''Today, the Haitian people have a new opportunity to fashion a better future and a new government that is determined to help them seize the opportunity that is before them,'' Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in announcing the American pledge. ''The proud and enterprising people of Haiti need and deserve this chance.'' 
 The meeting of donors was the second time in a decade that nations and international financial institutions have collected money on an emergency basis for Haiti. Contributors this time said they believed that their money would be better spent, with safeguards against corruption, close international oversight and a government that has bridged a longstanding political divide. 
 The international community, led by the United States, has spent as much as $2.6 billion in Haiti since the American-led intervention in 1994, but contributors steadily curtailed the assistance because of a breakdown in economic and political reforms.
 International officials said much of their optimism rested with the apolitical nature of the interim government, which was installed in March by a council of elders after a rebellion forced the departure, with American help, of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. The officials described the new leaders as technocrats who have promised to help lead a return to democracy but who will not be candidates themselves -- conditions that provide a window of nearly two years to begin an economic and political overhaul. 
 Gerard Latortue, the interim prime minister, said the money would largely be used to build up the country's infrastructure, including its unreliable electricity network and poor roads. Donors praised him for establishing an independent anticorruption unit as one of his early acts in government.
 ''If we have electricity and roads, you will not have to come back here every 10 years to help Haiti,'' Mr. Latortue told the donors. ''We have come out of a nightmare, but we have a new approach, a deep change in the mentality of Haitians.'' 
 The European Commission promised to provide $325 million in grants, and the World Bank pledged $155 million in grants and interest-free loans. The Inter-American Development Bank offered $260 million in soft loans, which are long-term loans at a low fixed rate. Canada pledged $112 million and France said it would give $92.8 million in grants and other assistance to its onetime colony. 
 Mr. Powell said the Bush administration's contribution would triple the amount of American aid that had originally been designated for Haiti this fiscal year. He said that $19 million of the additional aid would primarily be dedicated to fighting H.I.V. and AIDS. Other money will support a program that the Haitian government expects to create 31,000 temporary jobs in two months and to provide aid to depoliticize the national police force.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of La Saline, a vast slum in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, crossing an open sewer yesterday. Donors promised $1 billion in aid to the country. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (65%) Foreign Aid; United States International Relations

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (80%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%)

PERSON: Colin L (Sec) Powell; Christopher Marquis

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



423 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Nickel Miner Is Optimistic Despite a Loss

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, July 20 

 BODY:
Inco, the world's second-largest nickel producer, announced a $14 million second-quarter loss on Tuesday. But that loss, mostly a result of a charge, is less of a concern to the Toronto-based company than the more enviable problems it is encountering because of China's appetite for nickel.
 ''We're sold out,'' Scott M. Hand, the chairman and chief executive, said in an interview this week. 
 The $191 million in charges that produced Inco's second-quarter loss were a result of decisions announced earlier to scale down a mine project in New Caledonia in the South Pacific. Excluding those and other extraordinary charges, Inco's second-quarter earnings of $156 million were more than double what it reported for the period a year ago. Sales increased to $992 million from $599 million a year ago. 
 While renewed demand in the United States and Europe play a role in Inco's current earnings increase, Mr. Hand assigned most of the credit to China, where metal platers, stainless steel mills and electronics manufacturers lifted demand for nickel 48 percent last year.
 ''The challenge we have as an industry is providing enough supply to meet that demand,'' Mr. Hand said. ''If we can't supply it quickly enough, we always risk substitution.''
 Inco's chief hope for closing its supply shortfall is a $582 million project on the remote northern coastline of Labrador that just a few years ago was widely viewed as folly. The Voisey's Bay open-pit mine -- which has spawned an airstrip, harbor and instant town -- should allow Inco to dislodge Norilsk of Russia as the world's largest nickel company.
 The deposit at Voisey's Bay, which contains an estimated 30 million tons of ore, was discovered almost by accident in the fall of 1993. Two diamond-hunting geologists hired by a small Vancouver-based company, Diamond Field Resources, noticed a rusty rock outcropping from a helicopter. Further exploration found that not only was the deposit large, its nickel was unusually pure.
 In 1996, Inco bought Diamond Fields for $4.3 billion after a bidding war with Falconbridge, a nickel producer owned by Noranda, Canada's largest mining company.
 Almost instantly, things fell apart. A surge of exports from Russia depressed world nickel prices. And Inco discovered that buying Diamond Fields was only half the process of building Voisey's Bay.
 As Canada's poorest province, Newfoundland and Labrador has a checkered history involving attempts to revitalize its economy through ambitious projects. Given its previous failures, the province assumed a hard-line position, linking the development of Voisey's Bay to a commitment from Inco to process the ore within the province. Brian Tobin, the provincial premier at the time, vowed that ''not one spoonful'' of unprocessed ore would leave Newfoundland.
 Reaching agreements with the province, as well as aboriginal groups in Labrador, ultimately took Inco nearly six years. ''It was a long winter before we came to the spring,'' Mr. Hand said.
 Under the final agreements, there are two parts to the project. At the mine site in Voisey's Bay, Inco will also build an ore concentrator. During Tuesday's earnings announcement, the company said that it expected to start shipping ore from Voisey's by boat and rail to existing Inco smelters in Ontario and Manitoba in late 2005, several months ahead of schedule. 
 But Inco is also building a third smelter at the site of an abandoned United States air base on the island of Newfoundland as part of its agreement. It will eventually refine all of the Voisey's ore using a new and still unproven technology that promises to reduce electricity consumption by up to 70 percent.
 Michel L. Bilodeau, a mining economist at McGill University in Montreal, said he was concerned that the Newfoundland smelter project might offset the cost advantages afforded by the unusually rich and pure deposits at Voisey's Bay.
 ''Inco didn't have that much choice,'' Dr. Bilodeau said. ''They had to go ahead and pay the astronomical price to get Voisey's Bay going. But to me that means that Inco will become a little more vulnerable to downturns in nickel market prices.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott M. Hand, chief of Inco, said demand for nickel from China bodes well for his company, which is investing heavily in a mine in Labrador. (Photo by Norm Betts/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NICKEL MINING (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (89%); DIAMOND MINING (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NICKEL MARKETS (78%); METAL ORE MINING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SURFACE MINING (75%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); ELECTRONICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VALE INCO LTD (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (79%) CHINA (94%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



424 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: NASA Finally Gets Down To Business Side of Space

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

DATELINE: FARNBOROUGH, England, July 20 

 BODY:
On the 35th anniversary of man's first landing on the moon, NASA came to the international air show here on Tuesday to take one giant leap into the business side of space exploration. 
 Never before has the space agency been a participant at the Farnborough International Air Show, where major global aerospace and military contractors show their wares. But Tuesday, Craig E. Steidle, NASA's associate administrator and the head of a 50-member agency delegation, was out drumming up global business partners to help it pursue new missions to the moon and Mars. 
 First order of the day for Mr. Steidle, a retired rear admiral, was a presentation in which he hung an ''open for business'' sign on NASA. The agency's presence here follows a Bush administration initiative announced last January to bring about a greater privatization of NASA, turning over to the private sector all launchings that do not involve astronauts. 
 ''We want to start the dialogue with companies and industries,'' Mr. Steidle said. ''We want to pull our needs and desires into partnerships.'' 
 But many may find it difficult to go through Mr. Steidle's open door. Foreign companies currently account for less than 1 percent of NASA's $9.4 billion procurement budget. This low percentage is due, in part, to trade regulations intended to protect sensitive satellite technology but that also make it hard for foreign companies to compete against American suppliers. 
 Still, NASA put on a good show, in part driven by the realization that, given its daunting new agenda, it will be difficult to go it alone. 
 ''The main reason we're here is that we need to gather as much innovation as possible,'' said Mr. Steidle in an interview after his presentation. ''There are technical programs that we can work on collaboratively. NASA is looking to industry for innovation and commercialization.'' In addition, Mr. Steidle called on representatives of the Japanese and Russian space agencies, as well as the European Space Agency, to join in.
 Backing up Mr. Steidle's words was a splashy and popular display by NASA that trumpeted President Bush's call for a manned mission to Mars. But the biggest attraction of the exhibit may be a space suit available for passers-by to try on. 
 At a cost of $600,000, the traveling exhibit -- this is its first stop on what will be a worldwide tour -- was a cross between a sophisticated science exhibit and a clever marketing tool. Already, four United States senators attending the air show have stopped by.
 ''We are extremely excited about the people who have been coming through,'' said James Hull, the exhibit manager, who, like all the NASA employees here, was wearing a polo shirt with the big round NASA logo. ''We've got stakeholders, senior advisers, directors of international businesses. We are trying to send our message out.'' 
 It is a message that NASA has plenty of business opportunities, among them a lunar rover; a nuclear electric propulsion system, called Prometheus, that will guide a craft to Jupiter's moons; and a service program to repair the beleaguered international space station.
 ''The NASA budget is bigger than the gross domestic product of many South American countries,'' said Alan Ross, a Washington lobbyist who advises companies seeking federal contracts. ''So the opportunities are there for great rewards.''
 Yet, even the most enthusiastic speakers recognized the trade barriers -- as did those in the audience. 
 ''The big issue is the fact that it is difficult to get information to participate in the program,'' said Philip Davies, senior account manager of Surrey Satellite Technology, a British satellite maker in Guildford. ''How can you get work, if you can't get details of the program? The U.S. has set up a one-way flow. It is happy to import innovation, but it makes sure that nothing can go back out.'' 
 Surrey is a case in point. It has sold one of its satellites to the Los Alamos National Laboratory but Los Alamos would buy only the satellite's structure, refusing to give Surrey the business of putting in the payload, the sensitive innards of the satellite. 
 Still, given the size of NASA's budget, even a small level of participation can pay off. ''There will be opportunities for non-U.S. companies,'' Mr. Davis said. ''The U.S. marketplace is so big, even 1 percent of the business is a lot of money.'' 
 David J. Purll, space program manager of the London-based Sira Technology Ltd., a maker of optical devices for earth imagery, said that NASA programs were often too sophisticated and too large for many foreign companies. Instead, he said many foreign businesses would do better working as subcontractors to larger American companies already doing business with NASA. Among the biggest NASA suppliers are Lockheed Martin and Boeing. 
 ''No way do companies here have the resources to sell to NASA directly,'' Mr. Purll said. Yet, Mr. Purll pointed out that the scope of NASA's ambition was so grand, international participation on contracts was inevitable. 
 ''Going to Mars is so big,'' he added, ''even the U.S. cannot do it alone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (92%); SPACE INDUSTRY (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Space; Farnborough Air Show (Gb); Moon; Mars (Planet); Space

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; European Space Agency

PERSON: Craig E Steidle; Leslie Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (93%); MARS (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ENGLAND (52%) Japan; Russia

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



425 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: $20 to Spend, Surrounded by Ripeness

BYLINE: By PABLEAUX JOHNSON

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
ON a steamy Saturday morning, Frankie Mae Estes made her way through the Crescent City Farmers Market in the Warehouse District, clutching a bound book of pale green coupons.
 Ms. Estes walked the maze of 20 or so market tables, looking at late-season Creole tomatoes, fresh yellow squash and the year's last crop of Louisiana blueberries. After quick negotiations with a vendor, she ripped a few slips from the book and traded them for two pints of the sweet berries. 
 Accompanied by her friends Leatrice Augustine and Geneva Banks Williams, Ms. Estes had caught an early bus from her apartment in the Central City neighborhood to beat the summer heat. By 9 a.m., they had finished shopping and were loaded down with their morning groceries. ''We've got cantaloupe, corn, shrimp, peaches, bell peppers, cucumbers,'' she said, rummaging through her shopping bag. ''And now it's time to get home before it gets any hotter. We ain't no teenagers.''
 Ms. Estes, 79, is a participant in the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, financed by the Agriculture Department. With a nationwide budget of $15 million, the program gives low-income people age 60 and over $20 worth of vouchers a year, coinciding with the busy summer and fall market seasons. The vouchers can be used to purchase ''nonprepared'' goods -- mostly nutritious, locally grown fruits and vegetables. The program benefits people in 39 states, along with the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and six Indian tribes. Louisiana has been a participant since it began in 2001.
 ''It's been a great success for us,'' said Richard McCarthy IV, executive director of the Crescent City Farmers Market. ''We've seen seniors get a taste that alters their shopping habits. Once seniors see all the locally grown products, they see beyond the supermarket or the neighborhood grocery that can't always provide fresh produce. And once they see all they can get at the market, they use their own money as well.''
 ''In our first year, we helped qualify more than 5,000 seniors for the program,'' Mr. McCarthy said, ''and that brought over $100,000 into the market. It's a tiny program over all, but an important one. Even though $20 seems like a tiny allotment, it makes a huge difference for most low-income seniors.''
 The program, he said, ''also helps bring the farmers' market out of the froufrou foodie confines and makes it a healthier experience for the whole community.''
 The Crescent City Farmers Market, a project of the nonprofit Economics Institute at Loyola University, is in its 10th year in New Orleans. The market operates in four neighborhoods each week and serves a wide cross section of residents. ''Each market reflects its neighborhood,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''Our French Quarter market is more heavily tattooed than our Tuesday version, where the Uptown ladies come in straight off the tennis court.''
 The farmers working the tables at the weekly markets were also quick to see the value of the program.
 ''The seniors program has really helped us out,'' said Christine Monica, a farmer from nearby Garyville, who travels to New Orleans three days a week to sell produce grown on her 20-acre farm in St. John the Baptist Parish. ''When they started, it was during Creole tomato and okra season, and they bought them up. The old people cook a lot and look for the same things they used to grow in their gardens.''
 Just outside the market, Ms. Estes talked about her plans for the blueberries.
 ''I saw Martha Stewart and her mama make a pie the other day on TV,'' she said. ''A blueberry buckle pie -- and that looked real good.''
 ''I'm going to find a recipe for that,'' she said, laughing. ''But if I can't, I'll just eat them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: LOCAL PRIDE -- The Crescent City Farmers Market reflects its neighborhood. (Photo by Pableaux Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (87%); AGRICULTURE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); NUTRITION (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) Food; Aged; Farmers Markets; Vouchers

ORGANIZATION: Crescent City Farmers Market (New Orleans)

PERSON: Pableaux Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



426 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Extra Dose of Rivalry in Property Fight

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
While real estate disputes frequently result in lawsuits, a bankruptcy court battle in this city is generating exceptional interest, in part because it involves control of one of the most prominent buildings still in local hands. 
 The object of desire is International Place, a two-building complex completed by the Chiofaro Company in 1992. At 1.8 million square feet, it is the largest in the Financial District, which has the most sought-after office addresses in this city.
 Early this spring, the New York-based Tishman Speyer Properties paid $596 million in an auction to purchase the $620 million mortgage loan and $26 million in other debts from the lender, Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, also based in New York. In May, affiliates of the Chiofaro Company, which owns the complex in a joint venture with Hillman Properties of Pittsburgh, filed for bankruptcy in United States District Court here, contending that in the weeks after Tishman obtained the mortgage it had been rejecting sound lease deals in a ''hostile'' attempt to assume ownership. 
 ''The New York crowd is a bunch of pirates,'' the president and founder of the Chiofaro Company, Donald J. Chiofaro, said in a statement. While his business is not insolvent, Mr. Chiofaro said, he hopes through the bankruptcy process to reduce its mortgage interest rate from more than 7 percent to 6 percent or less. Then, he said, ''we'll send the interlopers back to Gotham.''
 The dispute has attracted special attention here -- and not only because of the New York-Boston rivalry. International Place, with towers 46 and 35 stories tall, has long set the standard for luxury offices here. ''It's a trophy property of tremendous stature with a good location that's getting better,'' said George J. Fantini Jr., chairman of Fantini & Gorga, Boston-based mortgage bankers.
 Another intriguing element of the case is that Chiofaro's partner, Hillman, which owns 60 percent of the complex, has signaled its willingness to let Tishman Speyer take control of the property from Chiofaro.
 On Monday, the parties agreed in bankruptcy court that Mr. Chiofaro would file a plan of reorganization on Sept. 7 without requesting extensions and that Tishman could discuss with creditors how it would repay them before they vote on Chiofaro's reorganization plan.
 Even if the bankruptcy court ultimately decides that Mr. Chiofaro can retain the property, which he has been developing and managing since 1980, Tishman says it will not retreat to New York. ''We like Boston and plan to expand here,'' said its chief executive, Jerry I. Speyer. In 1997, the company made its first purchase in the city: a 1.5-million-square-foot complex at 125 High Street. ''Someday,'' Mr. Speyer said, ''we'd like to build a new building.''
 A lawyer representing Tishman Speyer, R. Robert Popeo, said the company was not rejecting sound leases, just prudently watching its investment. At the auction of the International Place mortgage, ''Tishman didn't just bid to take over debt,'' he explained. ''The building had cash flow troubles,'' in part because an important tenant had left the building. 
 Without bankruptcy protection, Mr. Chiofaro's ''budget shows eventual default because he has no equity,'' Mr. Popeo added. ''Then Tishman would resolve issues with the owner or foreclose and become the owner.''
 Mr. Chiofaro disputed his adversary's contention that he had no equity in the development. ''I don't think Tishman bought it because they thought it would be worth less than the $600 million,'' he said, referring to the $596 million Tishman paid for the financing.
 Office ownership here is a sound investment, according to Mr. Speyer. ''Boston has a really good future, with its talent, universities, culture and the new greenway.'' As the $14.6 billion Big Dig, the 10-year reconstruction of the city's transportation network and utility grid, nears completion, some 27 acres of prime land are being left vacant between the Financial District and the harbor. 
 Called the Rose Kennedy Greenway, it is to have parks, stores and commercial, residential and cultural projects. International Place abuts the greenway. ''The complex is well located, lays out nicely for tenants but needs tender loving care,'' Mr. Speyer said.
 The cost of that care, the projected rental income and the sale prices of comparable towers will determine its value and the outcome of this duel. If the court decides that the luxury complex, which has views of the ocean, the city and the hills beyond, exceeds the value of its debt, the Chiofaro affiliates might retain it; if not, Tishman could acquire it through foreclosure, said Robert M. Zinman, a professor and founder of the bankruptcy program at St. John's University School of Law.
 But one element that the court will be looking at, property values, will be tricky to determine in Boston's office market, where countervailing trends are at play. Although leasing is weak and vacancies have risen sharply and could worsen, sale prices have reached record highs. 
 At the end of June, according to Spaulding & Slye Colliers, a real estate firm, 17.5 percent of the office space was available, and in the first six months of the year, 308,000 more square feet was vacated than was rented. In the middle of 2000, only 5.4 percent of the city's office space was available, and almost 725,000 square feet more was absorbed in January through June of 2000 than vacated. The average asking rent on Dec. 31, 2000, was $61.12 a square foot, compared with $34.35 now. Predictably, a shortage of tenants has pushed some suburban and second-tier downtown buildings into foreclosure. But Ronald K. Perry, executive vice president at Meredith & Grew, a real estate company, noted that only 6.7 percent of the space on the top floors in the best towers is available. Also, he said, tenants are taking space in significant new buildings like 33 Arch Street, which this spring leased about 330,000 square feet, signing up its first few tenants after an effort of more than three years. Nevertheless, the 600,000-square-foot property is still almost half empty.
 This problem of the high availability rate may get worse, he said. In coming months, as mergers involving financial institutions are completed, they may shed another 1.5 million square feet in Boston. ''The wild card is the underused or shadow space,'' Mr. Perry explained.
 But office sale prices have been astounding, totaling $900 million -- an average $422 a square foot -- by midyear, said Lisa M. Campoli, executive vice president of Meredith & Grew. By year-end, they may match the 1999 peak total of $2 billion but far outpace that year's average square foot price of $170..
 This spring, a record sale price of $671 a square foot was paid by American Financial Realty Trust of Jenkintown, Pa., for the newly built one-million-square-foot 1 Lincoln Street. A major attraction is the 20-year lease on the entire building taken by the State Street Corporation, which left most of its space in nearby International Place.
 In buildings fully leased by creditworthy tenants for the long term, Ms. Campoli said, ''Buyers pay a premium for the long-term strength of Boston and its knowledge economy.''
 Mr. Chiofaro is confident that International Place will also be valued at a premium. Last summer, its 3 percent vacancy rate shot up to 23 percent when State Street decamped. Since then, 335,000 square feet of new leases at an average rent of $45 a square foot reduced its availability rate to 12 percent, compared with 18.9 percent for the Financial District over all. In addition, leases were renewed for 50,000 square feet. By year-end, availability will be below 10 percent, Mr. Chiofaro said.
 Tishman has claimed that with concessions to tenants to improve their spaces, Chiofaro's effective rents were really about $34 a square foot, a net loss of building income because the new leases generate less income than the expiring leases. But in May, the bankruptcy court ruled that building income and value were not decreasing.
 ''It's common sense: when you fill empty space, it's a net plus,'' Mr. Chiofaro said. ''If we can renegotiate our loan to market rate, we'll have plenty of income to pay everything.'' He added, ''On Sept. 8, 2001, we were close to restructuring with Teachers, but after 9/11 couldn't get terrorism insurance.''
 With about 2.3 million square feet of property, Chiofaro is small compared with Tishman, which owns 33 million square feet of commercial property, including Rockefeller Center. But, according to Mr. Fantini, the mortgage banker, Chiofaro has prevailed in a number of legal battles over the years and the outcome of this dispute is far from decided.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Chiofaro, whose real estate company is in bankruptcy but seeking control of an office complex. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



427 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Delgado Makes a Stand by Taking a Seat

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
BEGINNING tonight, the Yankees will see a lot of the Toronto Blue Jays. The two teams will play 19 times in the final three months of the season. The Yankees will also see a lot of the Blue Jays slugger Carlos Delgado; they just won't see him in the middle of the seventh inning. 
 Though Delgado is having an off year, he remains one of the most respected players in Major League Baseball. Last March when the United States invaded Iraq, Delgado, in his own quiet way, said that for him, enough was enough. He had stood for ''God Bless America'' through the 2003 season but vowed not to do so this season. In an act of a simple, mostly unnoticed, protest against the war, Delgado, a 32-year-old first baseman, has chosen to remain in the dugout while ''God Bless America'' is played. 
 I'm curious to see the reaction to Delgado at Yankee Stadium, which George Steinbrenner has turned into a paean to patriotism. Some teams, including Toronto, have stopped playing ''God Bless America,'' which was inserted into games after the attacks of Sept. 11. Most teams now play the song only on weekends or holidays. 
 The Yankees play it during the seventh-inning stretch at every home game. That includes tonight, when they begin a two-game series with Toronto. Delgado will probably not be standing on the field. 
 ''I'm not trying to get anyone mad,'' he said Monday in Oakland, where the Blue Jays were playing the Athletics. ''This is my personal feeling. I don't want to draw attention to myself or go out of my way to protest. If I make the last out of the seventh inning, I'll stand there. But I'd rather be in the dugout.''
 Good for him. In the world of mainstream professional sports, where cookie-cutter athletes rarely take a stand on any issue, let alone one as highly charged as a war, Delgado is a rarity. He is unafraid to question a ritual that he does not agree with. Delgado's protest this season has been so quiet, so subtle that Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, didn't know about it until I called him to talk about it on Monday.
 ''When you called me today you actually startled me,'' he said from his office in Milwaukee. Selig later read a statement that he had prepared on Delgado's action. 
 ''I'm in the process of getting more information, but eventually I would like to sit down and discuss it with Carlos,'' Selig said. ''I am very sensitive to this kind of issue, both as a matter of respect for our country and for one's right to express his opinion.''
 I'll be watching to see how Selig handles this.
 It was Selig, in the aftermath of Sept. 11, who ordered all teams to play ''God Bless America,'' injecting a political statement into the games.
 ''I don't honestly think that politicizes the issue,'' Selig said, calling the playing of the anthem a matter of respect. ''After all, we do have troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.''
 With all due respect to Selig, once ''God Bless America'' became a political statement, a player like Delgado became free to express his own political views. 
 His well-thought-out opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan is just one part of a larger issue for him. Delgado, a native of Puerto Rico, sees his protest as consistent with his earlier opposition to the Navy's use of the Puerto Rican island of Vieques as a weapons testing ground. In many ways, the United States military waged a form of war for 60 years on the tiny island, using a 900-acre site for bombing exercises. 
 Delgado, who grew up on the mainland, remembers older residents telling stories about bomb explosions.
 ''They lived in that target practice area for 60 years,'' he said. ''They tell you stories of how, in the middle the night, a bomb blew up. I never experienced it, but I can imagine it. I can see why you might be a little hostile from time to time. ''
 Delgado, who was signed by Toronto when he was 16, spent two years involved in the movement to force the Navy to stop using Vieques as a testing site. The military ended the exercises on May 1, 2003. Now, Delgado and others want the United States government to help clean up the economic, psychological and health messes it left behind. He has contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars toward that effort and solicited other Puerto Rican celebrities to join the campaign against the aftereffects. 
 ''It's still in the environment, it's still in the ground, it's still in the water.'' he said. ''That's why we've got the highest cancer rate of any place in Puerto Rico.''
 Delgado doesn't feel the troops should be in Iraq, much as he felt the United States should not have been in Vieques. He won't stand in support of movements he does not believe in.
 Delgado's decision to ignore ''God Bless America'' has the support of the Toronto organization, even after he said last week that he would not agree to a trade in this, the final year of his contract. Paul Godfrey, the team's president and chief executive, supports Delgado even though he disagrees with his antiwar position. Godfrey criticized the Canadian government for not sending troops to Iraq and was the force behind the team's decision in 2003 to play ''God Bless America'' at the Skydome, which the team has now stopped.
 ''I have no problem with what Carlos did,'' he said in a telephone interview from Toronto. ''Carlos didn't hold a placard and stop traffic. He didn't impede the game because he's not that kind of guy. He's been total class in the community almost from the day he arrived.''
 Even Blue Jays catcher Gregg Zaun, who strongly supports the war effort (he vowed never to buy another record by the Dixie Chicks after they criticized President Bush), supports Delgado.
 ''He's a pretty quiet guy and it's been quiet,'' Zaun said. Delgado has never raised the issue with teammates, Zaun said.
 ''He has his opinion and he's decided to use that as his platform,'' Zaun said. ''Whether or not I agree with him, I salute him.''
 Even as he talked about his silent protest this week, Delgado emphasized that he didn't want the demonstration to become a distraction. At the same time, Delgado said he was not backing down from any criticism that comes his way. 
 ''It takes a man to stand up for what he believes,'' Delgado said Monday. ''Especially in a society where everything is supposed to be politically correct.''
 ''I am not pro-war; I'm antiwar,'' he said. ''I'm for peace.'' 
 Take that out to the ballgame.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Blue Jays' Carlos Delgado will not go on the field for the playing of ''God Bless America'' to protest the war in Iraq. (Photo by Susan Ragan/Associated Press)(pg. D1)
 Carlos Delgado, a Puerto Rican, has opposed the Navy's use of the island of Vieques as a weapons testing ground. He wants the United States to help clean up the island, and he has contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars toward that effort. (Photo by Rick Stewart/Getty Images)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); TERRORISM (66%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); US NAVY (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%) Toronto Blue Jays

PERSON: William C Rhoden; Carlos Delgado

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (86%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PUERTO RICO (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (90%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



428 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Inside a Republican Brain

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
What holds the five Republican factions together? To find out, I depth-polled my own brain.
 The economic conservative (I'm in the supply-side division) opposes the enforced redistribution of wealth, advocating lower taxes for all to stimulate growth with productivity, thereby to cut the deficit. Government should downhold nondefense spending, stop the litigation drain and reduce regulation but protect consumers from media and other monopolies. 
 My social conservative instinct wants to denounce the movie-and-TV treatment of violence and porno-sadism as entertainment; repeal state-sponsored gambling; slow the rush to same-sex marriage; oppose partial-birth abortion; resist genetic manipulation that goes beyond therapy. However, this conflicts with -- 
 My libertarian impulse, which is pro-choice and anti-compulsion, wants to protect the right to counsel of all suspects and the right to privacy of the rest of us, likes quiet cars in trains and vouchers for education, and wants snoops out of bedrooms and fundamentalists out of schoolrooms.
 The idealistic calling grabs me when it comes to America's historic mission of extending freedom in the world. This brand of thinking is often called neoconservative. In defense against terror, I'm pre-emptive and unilateral rather than belated and musclebound, and would rather be ad hoc in forming alliances than permanently in hock to global bureaucrats.
 Also rattling around my Republican mind is the cultural conservative. In today's ever-fiercer kulturkampf, I identify with art forms more traditional than avant-garde, and language usage more standard than common. I prefer the canon to the fireworks and a speech that appeals to the brain's reasoning facilities to a demidocumentary film arousing the amygdala. 
 Do these different streams of conservatism flow gently together to form a grand Republican river inside the head? ''Do I contradict myself?'' asked Walt Whitman, singing of himself and answering, ''Very well then I contradict myself. (I am large, I contain multitudes.)'' 
 If these different strains of thought were held by discrete groups of single-minded people, we would have a Republican Party of five warring bands. Social conservatives would fight libertarians over sex, who in turn would savage neocons over pre-emption, who in turn would hoot at the objections of economic conservatives (traditional division) to huge deficits. 
 But think of these internecine battles not as tugs of war among single-minded groups; instead, think of them as often-conflicting ideas held within the brain of an individual Republican. What goes on is ''cognitive dissonance,'' the jangling of competing inclinations, with the owner of the brain having to work out trade-offs, suppressions and compromises until he or she achieves a kind of puzzled tranquillity within.
 What helps me work out that continual internal skirmishing is a mind-set. That brings us to those ''values'' that every candidate talks about. My values include self-reliance over community dependence, intervention over isolation, self-discipline over society's regulation, finding pleasure in work rather than working to find pleasure. Principles like those help me gel a mind-set that reduces the loudest dissonances among my fistful of clanging conservatisms.
 Another aid to resolve the dissonance is every partisan's need for a political home. Independence is fine for the occasionally involved, but if influence as a participant or commentator is desired, one political side or the other must be taken. 
 The political brain doesn't have to go all the way to conform to either side because each side -- Republican and its loyal opposition -- contains this conglomeration of nonconformity. I'm a right-winger who is hot for gun control, dismaying all but the wishy-washies called ''moderates,'' but that specific dissent is made inside my Republican home. And home has been defined as the place where -- when you have to go there -- they have to take you in. 
 Finally, the dissonance inside my head will be forced into harmony by the need to choose one leader who reflects the preponderance of my views and my judgment of his character.
 I will take my teeming noggin to both conventions, watch all the debates and cast my vote -- careful, in the tradition of Times columnists, not to endorse anyone. But now you know how one Republican mind will be made up. I presume the liberal brain works the same way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FILM (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); ABORTION (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); LOTTERIES (55%); GAMING (55%); MARRIAGE (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (54%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



429 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Riders' Group Gives Subway System Its Best Report Card Yet

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group, issued its annual report card yesterday on the state of the city's subway system, awarding the most positive marks since it began rating the lines eight years ago. The group declared that trains are cleaner and less crowded, and that they break down less often and give better announcements.
 But the report comes a week before the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent agency of New York City Transit, is to release its projected 2005 operating budget, which could bring an increase in the price of unlimited-ride MetroCards and a broad array of service cuts to close a $540 million budget gap.
 ''Everything is on the table,'' said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the authority. ''The only thing that isn't on the table, which is the sacred cow, is the $2 base fare.'' 
 The budget shortfall has been brought on by the rising costs of employee health insurance and pensions, and payments due on money borrowed for the authority's last capital program. Although officials have said they hope that they can save most of the money by doing more with less inside the authority, they have conceded that some of the cuts could come in the form of reduced service for riders. 
 The possibility of an increase in the price of weekly and monthly cards, or an adjustment in the bonus-pay-per-ride cards, is something officials have been talking about for months because the passes have proved surprisingly popular, especially since the rise in the base fare to $2 in May of last year. The subway's passenger revenues have been consistently lower than budgeted each month this year because of the increasing use of the discounted MetroCards.
 The transportation authority will also be releasing its proposed capital program for the next five years. The cost of the plan, which sets aside money for buying new subway cars, replacing track, upgrading stations and expanding the system, is expected to exceed $20 billion, the most ever spent on capital projects.
 Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, said the high marks in this year's subway report card were largely attributable to money spent in the last capital program, in which 1,210 new subway cars were bought.
 ''Things got better because they spent money,'' he said.
 In this year's report, for instance, the No. 6 line, one of the lines that has benefited from new trains, came out best over all, performing above average in all categories except for crowding. 
 The worst line? The N train, which finished second to last in last year's report, and now runs less frequently and breaks down more often.
 Over all, the assessment reported large differences in quality between lines. For example, the D train had the best record for delays caused by mechanical breakdowns, with a delay coming only once every 448,404 miles, while the G line experienced delays of a mechanical nature about eight times as often, or once every 53,331 miles.
 The coming months are critical for the transit system in terms of its financing, Mr. Russianoff said.
 Transportation authority officials are hoping to get help from the state and the city for both the capital and the operating budgets. In the capital program, the state and city contribution has fallen from nearly 30 percent in the 1980's to 2 percent from the city and nothing from the state in the last plan. As a result, the authority had to borrow heavily to finance the last plan, leading to the large budget gap next year and an even bigger one, more than a billion dollars, the year after.
 For the operating budget, officials plan to outline cuts that would be made if they do not get additional help from the city and state, which contribute $184 million each right now. 
 ''Unless the governor and the mayor step up to the plate, the progress we found is at risk,'' Mr. Russianoff said.
 Much of the attention with the next capital program has been focused on ambitious new projects for the system, including the building of the long-awaited Second Avenue subway and a proposal to connect the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal. The projects, which will be spread over several capital programs, come with respective price tags of $16.8 billion and $6.3 billion. 
 But the Regional Plan Association, an urban policy group, estimated in a recent report that just maintaining and upgrading the current network will require at least $18.9 billion over the next five years. The group called for the state and city to substantially increase their financing for the capital program as well as the operating budget, arguing that the economy of the region depends on the network.
 And as Mr. Russianoff pointed out, there are still plenty of ways for the system to get substantially better. 
 ''We're not talking about perfection here,'' Mr. Russianoff said. ''This is the New York City subway.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The No. 6 train on the Lexington Avenue line emerged as the top train over all in this year's subway ratings by the Straphangers Campaign. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)Chart: ''Surveying Subway Performance''The Straphangers Campaign, a riders' advocacy group, released its annual report yesterday on the best and worst subway lines.Rank (best to worst): 1Regularity of service: gBreakdown rate: dChance of getting a seat: bInterior cleanliness: eIn-car announcements: 5Rank (best to worst): 2Regularity of service: b,dBreakdown rate: 2Chance of getting a seat: vInterior cleanliness: nIn-car announcements: 2Rank (best to worst): 3Regularity of service: --Breakdown rate: 5Chance of getting a seat: mInterior cleanliness: g,mIn-car announcements: lRank (best to worst): 4Regularity of service: lBreakdown rate: qChance of getting a seat: 7Interior cleanliness: --In-car announcements: 6Rank (best to worst): 5Regularity of service: 6Breakdown rate: 6Chance of getting a seat: j/zInterior cleanliness: 4In-car announcements: 4Rank (best to worst): 6Regularity of service: j/zBreakdown rate: 1/9Chance of getting a seat: dInterior cleanliness: 2In-car announcements: eRank (best to worst): 7Regularity of service: 1/9Breakdown rate: wChance of getting a seat: rInterior cleanliness: cIn-car announcements: 7Rank (best to worst): 8Regularity of service: 7Breakdown rate: 4Chance of getting a seat: qInterior cleanliness: 1/9In-car announcements: a,g,rRank (best to worst): 9Regularity of service: qBreakdown rate: 3Chance of getting a seat: fInterior cleanliness: 3, j/zIn-car announcements: --Rank (best to worst): 10Regularity of service: 4Breakdown rate: j/zChance of getting a seat: wInterior cleanliness: --In-car announcements: --Rank (best to worst): 11Regularity of service: mBreakdown rate: bChance of getting a seat: eInterior cleanliness: 6In-car announcements: vRank (best to worst): 12Regularity of service: cBreakdown rate: eChance of getting a seat: cInterior cleanliness: d,lIn-car announcements: 1/9Rank (best to worst): 13Regularity of service: 3Breakdown rate: lChance of getting a seat: 3Interior cleanliness: --In-car announcements: wRank (best to worst): 14Regularity of service: eBreakdown rate: nChance of getting a seat: aInterior cleanliness: vIn-car announcements: nRank (best to worst): 15Regularity of service: fBreakdown rate: fChance of getting a seat: 6Interior cleanliness: 5In-car announcements: b,mRank (best to worst): 16Regularity of service: nBreakdown rate: cChance of getting a seat: 2Interior cleanliness: bIn-car announcements: --Rank (best to worst): 17Regularity of service: vBreakdown rate: mChance of getting a seat: nInterior cleanliness: aIn-car announcements: c,dRank (best to worst): 18Regularity of service: wBreakdown rate: aChance of getting a seat: 1/9Interior cleanliness: qIn-car announcements: --Rank (best to worst): 19Regularity of service: rBreakdown rate: 7Chance of getting a seat: 5Interior cleanliness: 7In-car announcements: fRank (best to worst): 20Regularity of service: 2Breakdown rate: vChance of getting a seat: 4Interior cleanliness: fIn-car announcements: 3Rank (best to worst): 21Regularity of service: aBreakdown rate: rChance of getting a seat: lInterior cleanliness: wIn-car announcements: qRank (best to worst): 22Regularity of service: 5Breakdown rate: gChance of getting a seat: Data for G unavailableInterior cleanliness: rIn-car announcements: j/z 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TRAINS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (53%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) Transit Systems; Ratings and Rating Systems; Subways

ORGANIZATION: Straphangers Campaign

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



430 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Albany Leaders Agree to Raise Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 20 

 BODY:
In one of their few achievements in Albany this year, the state's two top legislators agreed on Tuesday to gradually raise the minimum wage in New York State by $2 -- to $7.15 from $5.15 an hour -- by January 2007.
 The proposal was expected to be introduced late Tuesday, but it was unclear whether a vote on it would occur this week or when lawmakers return again to Albany, on Aug. 2. 
 Proponents of the higher wage said that if Gov. George E. Pataki signs the measure into law, it would put more disposable income into the pockets of hundreds of thousands of the state's lowest-paid workers, help lift families out of poverty and boost New York's overall economy. The governor said he was awaiting details of the deal. 
 The measure being crafted would raise New York's minimum wage for the first time in more than four years, allowing the state to join 12 others, including Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont, in requiring that workers be paid more than the federal government's hourly minimum of $5.15.
 ''We're thrilled that at long last the State Senate is joining the State Assembly in passing minimum-wage legislation which will raise the wages of hundreds of thousands of low-wage workers,'' said Robert Master, the co-chairman of the Working Families Party, which for six years has promoted the issue in Albany.
 The logjam was broken after the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, dropped opposition to an Assembly proposal to raise the minimum. He did so in an election year in which his party was threatened with the loss of two Senate seats in New York City, where raising the wage is a popular position. Mr. Bruno bucked the wishes of the state's Conservative Party chairman in backing the increase. 
 The breakthrough came the day lawmakers returned to Albany for three days in the midst of a summer break that began on June 23.
 At separate news conferences, and in a joint statement, Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, and Mr. Bruno dribbled out details of the deal. 
 Mr. Silver noted that the $7.15 figure fell between two bills the Democrat-led Assembly had passed this year, one to raise the minimum to $7.10 an hour by 2006, the other to $7.25. The plan would raise the state's current $5.15-an-hour minimum to $6 an hour on Jan. 1, 2005; $6.75 on Jan. 1, 2006; and $7.15 on Jan. 1, 2007.
 Lawmakers also want to raise the hourly pay for the lowest wage earners, restaurant and bar employees who earn tips, to $4.60 from $3.30, an increase that would be fully effective by Jan. 1, 2007.
 Mr. Bruno, who often says that jobs give people dignity, said the increases would help the working poor. 
 ''This is great news for working families across the state,'' Mr. Silver, a Democrat, said at news conference outside his office in the Capitol. ''I want to commend Senator Bruno, and all of our colleagues in the Senate, for joining us in this agreement that we have been fighting for, now, for several years.''
 Senator Michael A.L. Balboni, a Republican from Long Island, said the compromises on the figure and the time it will take to reach the maximum level made common sense.
 ''There are a lot of, quote, working poor, that need this help,'' said Mr. Balboni, who said the timing of the vote in the Senate was still being worked out. Under the existing minimum, full-time workers earn $10,712 a year, which is below the federal poverty level.
 For his part, Governor Pataki reacted to the news of the agreement with a view he has expressed for months: He supports an increase but would prefer that the federal government raise it nationwide to avoid putting New York businesses at a disadvantage compared with neighboring states, including New Jersey and Pennsylvania, that have not moved beyond the $5.15 rate.
 ''I haven't seen the bill,'' he said when asked about the deal. ''If in fact they do pass one, I'll look at it.''
 Mr. Pataki said the Legislature had not yet asked him for a message of necessity, which would enable lawmakers to move for a speedy vote on the issue without letting the legislation age for three days, as required by the state's Constitution.
 Opponents of the increase say it will force small businesses to charge consumers more and to pay additional Social Security, unemployment and Medicare taxes. Robert Ward of the Business Council of New York, a lobbying group, said the increase could actually hurt low-wage workers by endangering their eligibility for earned income tax credits.
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Ward wrote that ''a higher statutory wage will result in loss of existing E.I.T.C. benefits, and in many cases loss of food stamp and other benefits as well.''
 Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Democrat from Manhattan, said political pressure had ultimately forced Senator Bruno to follow the Assembly on the issue.
 ''If they think they're going to lose vulnerable Republican members on an issue, they're prepared to move to the left,'' he said. ''The conservatives who dominate in the Senate didn't raise taxes, pass a civil rights law for gay people and raise the minimum wage because they changed their ideology. They know our candidates are going to campaign on those issues if they don't move.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICS (71%); RESTAURANTS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (55%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Labor; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

PERSON: Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



431 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: David Wallace, 86, Dies; Helped Revive Downtowns

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 20 

 BODY:
David A. Wallace, an influential urban planner who worked for decades to revive downtowns and waterfronts, most notably the Inner Harbor of Baltimore, was found dead with his wife, Joan Wallace, on Monday in their home in Philadelphia.
 The police said the couple committed suicide.
 Mr. Wallace was 86 and had prostate cancer, and Mrs. Wallace was 83 and terminally ill, the police said. 
 Their bodies were discovered by a hospice worker, investigators said. The couple left a suicide note, a police spokeswoman said. She declined to disclose its contents.
 Mr. Wallace taught planning and urban design at the University of Pennsylvania for 17 years.
 In 1963, Mr. Wallace and his partners, Ian L. McHarg, William H. Roberts and Thomas A. Todd, created the conceptual plan for the Inner Harbor that was to be the blueprint for three decades of rebuilding Baltimore's waterfront.
 For 25 years, their firm, WMRT, helped refine that initial vision, designing promenades, piers and bridges and setting guidelines for private development.
 Today the project is considered one of the nation's great successes in urban renewal.
 The Baltimore project won Mr. Wallace's firm a job in New York in 1965 writing a master plan for a redevelopment of Lower Manhattan to complement the World Trade Center, which was about to be built.
 The plan's central ideas included creating a new residential community on fill at the tip of Manhattan, providing easier public access to the waterfront and sinking the area's elevated expressways. Many of those design elements were incorporated into Battery Park City.
 Mr. Wallace retired from his firm, now known as Wallace, Roberts & Todd, in 1992 but continued working on many of its projects. He recently wrote a memoir, ''Urban Planning My Way,'' published by the American Planning Association Planners Press.
 A graduate of the Philadelphia public schools, Mr. Wallace served in the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II and later worked as a planner at the Chicago Housing Authority and the Philadelphia Redevelopment Authority. He also taught at the University of Chicago.
 The Wallaces' survivors include her son, Robert N. Cunningham III. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEATHS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); SUICIDE (72%); HOSPICE (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); ARMIES (65%); WORLD WAR II (62%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



432 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Shrimp and Mischief

 BODY:
These have been surprisingly busy days on the trade front. The United States is pushing forward on free trade agreements with Africa, Australia and Central America, while negotiating with Europe and others in an attempt to revive a stalled effort to lower the barriers that make it hard for farmers in the developing world to sell their products. Along with all this progress, however, there have been some distressing reminders of how easy it is for protectionist interests at home to undermine the nation's commitment to free trade, at a high cost to consumers and the overall economy. The spurious antidumping case brought against imported Vietnamese and Chinese shrimp is one particularly unfortunate example. 
 The Bush administration decided earlier this month that shrimp farmers in those two countries were unfairly dumping their shrimp in the American market. As a result, they will face tariffs ranging up to 113 percent. The charges are unfair, but because Vietnam and China are not market economies, the Commerce Department has much license to estimate their shrimp exporters' costs and claim that their prices are improperly set below that level. 
 These antidumping cases are notoriously easy for American businesses to win, and the Bush administration has been especially solicitous of aggrieved industries, particularly those thought to have political clout. Even more scandalous, American industries can profit from bringing antidumping cases, thanks to a law that allows complaining companies to pocket some of the tariffs collected if they win. The World Trade Organization has ruled that this practice is illegal, but it continues anyway.
 In Vietnam, this shrimp protectionism is seen as only the latest example of American hypocrisy. Washington implored Hanoi to open up its economy and sign a trade deal that would help bring its farmers into the world of global commerce. But given what's happened since then, Vietnam now assumes that America doesn't really want it to succeed. Last year, Washington slapped unwarranted tariffs on another Vietnamese export, catfish. 
 The Chinese got word of the shrimp move just as Washington persuaded Beijing to drop a tax rebate for its domestic semiconductor companies that unfairly hurt American competitors. Now the shrimp case will invite retaliatory mischief; such cases always do. Things may still get worse, as Washington has yet to decide antidumping cases against a group of other nations that include Brazil and Thailand.
 Sophisticated overseas shrimp farms can bring shrimp to market far more cheaply than American fishing trawlers can. Imported shrimp now accounts for nearly 90 percent of the domestic market, and the resulting lower prices have made shrimp, once a luxury item, the nation's most popular seafood. This all flows naturally from the laws of economics that this country is supposed to believe in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIDUMPING LAWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); SHELLFISH FARMING (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SEAFOOD (76%); AQUACULTURE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (69%); ELECTRONICS (68%); TAX LAW (65%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%); HANOI, VIETNAM (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); VIETNAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



433 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: WELLS FARGO REPORTS 12% RISE IN SECOND-QUARTER PROFIT

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Wells Fargo & Company, the nation's fifth-largest bank, said yesterday that second-quarter profit rose 12 percent, as growth in deposits and consumer lending offset charges to improve its balance sheet. The San Francisco-based company said net income rose to $1.71 billion, or $1 a share, from $1.53 billion, or 90 cents a share, a year earlier. Results included charges of 14 cents a share to bolster the balance sheet as interest rates rose. Wells Fargo bought back $2.44 billion of debt, and sold $14 billion of lower-yielding securities and adjustable-rate mortgages, replacing most of them with higher-yielding securities. Analysts polled by Reuters Research on average forecast profit of $1.03 a share.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



434 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Black Men Out of Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''An Emerging Catastrophe,'' by Bob Herbert (column, July 19), about black male joblessness: 
 I recently moved to Asbury Park, N.J., a community that is going through an economic and cultural renaissance, with new upscale condos, classy shops, restaurants and art galleries. 
 In stark contrast to this prosperity are the dozens of black men of working age who are simply ''hanging out'' on the streets. To tourists or newcomers to the community, they may seem threatening. 
 We can say that education is the answer, and, of course, it is. These men need to be trained to fulfill a useful function in our society, but it is easier said than done. They have been out of the educational system for some years and may have no desire to return. 
 We need to develop a plan to integrate these men into mainstream society. If we do not, we can forget about renaissance communities and prepare to face a catastrophe. Human beings need to work in order to be whole.

Rosene Zaros
Asbury Park, N.J., July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%) Labor; Blacks; Unemployment; Men 

PERSON: Rosene Zaros

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



435 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Black Men Out of Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The numbers that Bob Herbert reports on joblessness among African-American men are staggering -- 25 percent of all black men, including 44 percent of those without a high school diploma, are idle all year long. 
 One number, though, leaps out: 13 percent of African-American men with a bachelor's degree or higher are jobless. What would the response of the white community and political leaders be if that statistic instead referred to white men? One can only speculate as to the immediate outcry and resulting mobilization of resources.

Josh Miner
Berkeley, Calif., July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Blacks; Unemployment; Men 

PERSON: Josh Miner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



436 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Black Men Out of Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 One of the major causes of unemployment for black men, I believe, is that their jobs are being outsourced, figuratively speaking. 
 Companies that cannot send jobs to other countries often encourage third-world workers to immigrate to the United States. These workers, used to earning as little as one-tenth the wages of American blue-collar workers, will work for wages that no American should have to accept. 
 There are millions of legal and illegal foreign workers in the United States. With that kind of competition, no wonder so many black men are out of work. 
 The United States needs to crack down on companies that hire illegal immigrants and reduce the flow of legal immigrants. Only then will the most deprived American citizens have a chance to get back to work.

David C. Holzman
Wellfleet, Mass., July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); REFUGEES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Blacks; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Unemployment; Foreign Workers; Men

PERSON: David Holzman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



437 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Microsoft to Distribute $32 Billion in a Dividend
Microsoft announced plans to pay shareholders a special dividend of $3 a share, a gift worth $32 billion. Although other companies have paid special dividends, the size of Microsoft's payout is believed to be the largest.
 The company also said that it would double its quarterly dividend to 8 cents a share and would buy back as much as $30 billion of its stock over the next four years. [Page A1.]

New Concerns About Ford Earnings
Ford Motor reported that profits nearly tripled in the second quarter, but analysts are concerned because Ford relied heavily on its lending division and lost money in its core business: making cars and trucks. Ford's Jaguar unit is also struggling and will be revamped. The news sent shares of Ford down. [C6.]

Maintaining Access to G.I.'s
Insurance sales practices that misled soldiers and violated Pentagon rules have plagued military bases for decades. To find out why, the place to look is Washington. [A1.]

NASA Goes Marketing in England
For the first time, NASA is attending the Farnborough International Air Show to drum up global business partners to help it pursue new missions to the moon and Mars. [C2.]

Delta Pilots Offer a Wage Cut
The pilots union at Delta Air Lines proposed a 23 percent wage cut late, a day after the airline posted its worst results in 25 years. [C5.]

Closing Arguments in Oracle Trial
Very different views were presented in closing arguments in the government's lawsuit to block Oracle's proposed $7.7 billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft, leaving it to the judge to decide whether a merger of the two companies would adversely affect competition. [C12.]

Hot Reruns on Summer TV
Television repeats from the regular season are turning out to be big hits this summer. [E1.]

Russia Moves to Seize Yukos Asset
The Russian government took steps to seize and sell the prize oil asset of Yukos, as payment for the company's back tax bill. There is confusion about what happens next: how a sale would take place, whether foreign multinationals or only Russian companies would be allowed to bid in an auction, or if the whole threat of a sale is merely a negotiating tactic in the government's case against Yukos's imprisoned founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, above. [World Business, Section W.]

House Passes an Options Bill
The House approved a bill that would help companies avoid counting many stock-option awards as an expense. [C11.]

Stocks Higher After Greenspan Talk
A bullish assessment of the economy by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, sent stocks moderately higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 55.01 points, to 10,149.07; the S.&P. 500 gained 7.77 points, to 1,108.67; and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 33.24 points, to 1,917.07. [C7.]

Encouraging Technology Results
Motorola, EMC and Sun Microsystems, three former Wall Street favorites struggling to rebound from the technology recession that began in 2000, reported mostly encouraging results for the quarter. [C12.]

A Loss at Continental Airlines
Continental Airlines posted a second-quarter loss of $17 million because of higher fuel costs and increased competition. [C5.]

Rivalry in a Property Fight
A legal battle over a luxury office complex in Boston is generating exceptional interest. Commercial Real Estate. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,149.07 up 55.01Nasdaq composite -- 1,917.07 up 33.2410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.44% up 0.09The euro -- $1.2335 down 0.0104The dollar -- 108.57 yen up 0.34Graph tracks the daily closing price of Ford shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); AUCTIONS (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MERGERS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); TAX LAW (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); ORACLE CORP (75%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (67%); OAO NK YUKOS (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (75%); DAL (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (75%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (75%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (75%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (75%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (75%); MARS (70%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



438 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: 3 Technology Giants Surge in Quarter

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Motorola, EMC and Sun Microsystems, three former Wall Street favorites struggling to rebound from the technology recession that began in 2000, yesterday reported mostly encouraging results for the quarter. 
 For Motorola, which sells a broad array of wireless communications and semiconductor products, and EMC, the leader in the data storage industry, the quarter brought surging earnings and market share gains. 
 For Sun, which primarily makes server computers that run networks, unexpectedly strong sales for the quarter -- the last in its fiscal year -- ended a dismal three-year stretch in which every quarter's sales had been lower than the quarter the previous year. 
 The three companies, while noting that the July to September quarter is typically a slow one for technology sales, expressed varying degrees of optimism about the rest of 2004. In the case of Motorola and EMC, investors shared the enthusiasm. 
 Motorola reported a net loss of $203 million, or 9 cents a share, for the quarter ended July 3. The loss reflected a number of one-time tax losses and gains, including an $898 million accounting entry related to the future tax consequences of its spinoff of Freescale Semiconductor, its semiconductor products subsidiary.
 Absent such adjustments, Motorola earned 21 cents a share. Analysts had expected 18 cents a share.
 Revenue of Motorola, which is based in Schaumburg, Ill., rose 41 percent, to $8.7 billion.
 Although 30 percent of Freescale's shares were sold to the public last week in an offering that netted Motorola $1 billion, the semiconductor group will remain a subsidiary of Motorola until the rest of Freescale's shares are transferred to Motorola shareholders later this year.
 Motorola's cellphone unit, its largest, shipped 24.1 million phones, 52 percent more than a year ago, and operating earnings grew to $394 million from $91 million in the quarter last year. Freescale's sales climbed 31 percent, to $1.46 billion, and that unit earned $55 million, a contrast to a $125 million loss a year ago. 
 EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., said that net income in the quarter jumped to $192.8 million, or 8 cents a share, from $81.7 million, or 4 cents a share, in the second quarter of 2003. Revenue rose 33 percent, to $1.97 billion from $1.48 billion a year ago.
 EMC's results met the consensus projections of analysts tracked by Thomson First Call. That cast a reassuring light on a technology sector that had given investors tense moments in recent weeks after several smaller storage vendors and suppliers of components to storage systems companies had revised projected sales or earnings downward.
 The strong performance underscored the success of EMC's strategy of investing heavily in expanding the range of storage software and service products it could sell along with its hardware. EMC, which spent $3.6 billion acquiring Legato Systems, Documentum and VMware last year to decrease its reliance on hardware, reported that software revenues were up 64 percent from a year ago and services revenues up 45 percent. Excluding the acquisitions, EMC revenue rose 19 percent in the last year. 
 In a conference call with analysts, Joseph M. Tucci, EMC's chief executive, described the growth as ''crisp and balanced.'' William J. Teuber Jr., EMC's chief financial officer, said, ''We're growing at least two, maybe three times as fast as the market.''
 Sun, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said revenue for the quarter that ended June 30, was $3.11 billion, up 4.3 percent. 
 Sun reported earnings of $795 million, or 24 cents a share. But the figure for this year included $1.6 billion from its April settlement of litigation with Microsoft, a $145 million charge for restructuring and other adjustments. Adjusting for special charges, Sun lost $169 million in the quarter, or 5 cents a share, a penny more than Wall Street had expected.
 Shares of Motorola, which rose 65 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $16.09 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, continued climbing as high as $17 in after-hours trading once the earnings report was released. 
 Shares of EMC, which announced its earnings early yesterday morning, gained 50 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $10.86 in regular trading on the Big Board and then climbed as high as $10.94 in after-hours trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); NETWORK SERVERS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); EMC CORP (86%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); VMWARE INC (50%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%); EMC (NYSE) (86%); VMW (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (86%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



439 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tells Iowa Crowd What He Learned From Sept. 11

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, July 20 

 BODY:
Just two days before the commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks renders its judgment on his administration's handling of the terror plot and its aftermath, President Bush told supporters here that the lessons he learned from that day led him to the decision to depose Saddam Hussein.
 Mr. Bush drew his biggest cheers at the rally Tuesday when he said that he emerged from Sept. 11 determined never again to allow any threat to America to fester -- or to allow allies to dissuade him from using force, if necessary, to quash those threats.
 ''You need to know something about me,'' he said to the highly partisan crowd. ''I will never turn over America's national security decisions to leaders of other countries.'' 
 Mr. Bush clearly sees a chance to play off of what his aides say is his greatest strength in swing states like Iowa: his reputation as a man who is tough on terrorism and who rarely if ever looks back. 
 But Mr. Bush noted: ''The enemy declared war on us. Nobody wants to be the war president. I want to be the peace president. The next four years will be peaceful years.'' He repeated the words ''peace'' or ''peaceful'' many times, as he has done increasingly in his recent appearances. 
 The president did try something new on Tuesday. He took every opportunity to go positive, and edit out of his stump speech direct attacks on his likely Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry. 
 ''Oh, I know you think I'm going to spend most of the time attacking my opponent,'' Mr. Bush told the crowd, the sweat dripping from his face and soaking through the back of his blue shirt as he moved around the podium. ''I've got too much good to talk about.''
 That promise did not stop him, however, from claiming a few minutes later that Mr. Kerry's plan to roll back the tax cuts for families earning more than $200,000 a year would harm small businesses and discourage investment. ''Now is not the time to raise taxes on small-business owners,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Mr. Bush, who, like his rival, is a millionaire many times over, took the opportunity to portray himself as an ordinary guy, though one who has a good-size ranch among his assets.
 ''In the campaign, you'll hear, we're going only to tax the rich,'' he said. ''That's what you'll hear. Now, this is from a fellow who has promised about $2 trillion of new spending thus far. And only taxing the rich, first of all, creates a huge tax gap, which means buyer beware. You see, if you can't raise enough by taxing the rich, guess who gets to pay next?''
 He answered his own question: ''Yes, the not-rich. That's all of us.''
 Though Mr. Bush held the rally at a community college, he chose not to dwell on education, instead rolling out a revamped stump speech that homes in on the argument that the way to keep the United States safe is to keep him in office. 
 He opened his hourlong speech and question-and-answer session by arguing that four more years would give him time to make the nation ''a safer and stronger and better place.'' And he welcomed his twins, Jenna and Barbara, to the campaign trail, telling the crowd that when they travel with him on Air Force One ''it makes the days a little shorter, and the trips a lot more fun.''
 The remainder of the new stump speech is a paean to tax cutting and to free trade, and that sells well in parts of the country dependent on exporting agricultural goods. 
 ''The temptation is to say, Well, you know, we better shut her down, we better have economic isolationism,'' he said, concluding, ''That would be bad for Iowa.'' 
 The flood of imports, he said, gives a consumer ''more choices, and when you have more choices as a consumer, you're going to get better quality at better price.''
 ''Americans can compete with anybody, any time, anywhere, if the playing field is level,'' he said.
 And, unable to resist an end-of-day shot at Mr. Kerry, he added, ''If you disagree with the senator on any issue, you may just have caught him on the wrong day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush greeted supporters yesterday after an ''Ask President Bush'' event at the Kirkwood Community College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (85%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (61%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (71%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



440 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Rates Could Rise Quickly

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Tuesday that the economic expansion appears to be ''self-sustaining,'' and warned that interest rates could rise more swiftly if inflation turns out to be worse than he expects. 
 ''We cannot be certain that this benign environment will persist and that there are not more deep-seated forces emerging as a consequence of prolonged monetary accommodation,'' Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee.
 In a carefully hedged presentation, Mr. Greenspan veered little from the Fed's basic message when it raised interest rates on June 30 and said in a statement that it hoped to keep raising them at a ''measured'' pace over the next year. 
 But Mr. Greenspan dashed hopes of those on Wall Street who thought the Fed might proceed to raise interest rates more slowly in response to evidence that has emerged recently that consumer price increases moderated in June and economic growth appears to have cooled in the last two months. 
 If anything, he stepped up his warning about the uncertainties that surround both the outlook for growth and inflation.
 ''If economic developments are such that monetary policy neutrality can be restored at a measured pace, a relatively smooth adjustment of businesses and households to a more typical level of interest rates seems likely,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
 Investors reacted with modest relief to Mr. Greenspan's comments. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 0.5 percent, to 10,149.07, the biggest increase since late June. The Nasdaq climbed 1.8 percent, to 1,917.07.
 Many analysts, particularly in the bond markets, have sharply criticized the Fed for keeping interest rates too low for too long and ignoring signs of incipient inflation.
 In his testimony, Mr. Greenspan reiterated his view that recent price increases are mainly a result of ''transitory factors,'' like higher oil prices.
 He also expanded on his view that corporate profits have been so high that businesses have ample room to offer higher wages without raising prices to consumers.
 The surprisingly tentative tone of his outlook contrasted with Mr. Greenspan's more extended attempt in his testimony on Tuesday to buttress his view that core inflation, which excludes volatile areas like food and energy prices, is likely to remain below 2 percent through the end of next year.
 But despite his optimism about inflation remaining under wraps, Mr. Greenspan cautioned investors against thinking that the Fed might feel less constrained in unwinding its cheap-money policies of the last three years.
 While acknowledging that higher prices had led to a ''soft patch'' in consumer spending and growth, he predicted that the economy would continue to expand and brushed aside a new report by the Commerce Department, which showed that housing starts plunged by 8.5 percent last month.
 ''Despite the softness of recent retail sales,'' Mr. Greenspan said, ''the combination of higher current anticipated future income, strengthened balance sheets and still-low interest rates bodes well for consumer spending.'' 
 In its semiannual monetary report to Congress, which Mr. Greenspan delivered to the banking committee on Tuesday, the central bank slightly reduced its forecast for growth this year.
 The Fed predicted that annual growth in 2004 would be 4.25 to 4.75 percent, down slightly from its forecast in February that growth could reach 5 percent.
 The Fed predicted that core inflation would range from 1.5 percent to 2 percent in 2005, which is at the highest boundary of what Fed officials consider acceptable.
 Though Mr. Greenspan predicted that the job market would continue to improve, the Fed predicted that the unemployment rate would decline only slightly from 5.6 percent last month to about 5 to 5.25 percent at the end of 2005.
 ''For the moment, the modest upward path of unit labor costs does not appear to threaten longer-term price stability,'' he continued. But he carefully repeated his warning about ''uncertainties'' and said the Federal Reserve ''will continue to pay close attention to incoming data, especially on costs and prices.''
 As always, Mr. Greenspan took pains to leave his options open. He carefully dodged an opening question from Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, on whether the Fed would raise the federal funds rate another quarter-point at its August meeting.
 He also refused to be pinned down on what is in many ways the most basic question: What constitutes a ''neutral'' interest rate that neither provokes inflation nor slows down the economy?
 Many economists have suggested that a ''neutral'' fed funds rate -- the rate charged on overnight loans between banks and the key policy tool the Fed relies on to guide the economy -- is 4 percent to 5 percent. That would be a big increase from today's level of 1.25 percent.
 Like the famous description of pornography from Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart, Mr. Greenspan said people would know the rate when it arrived.
 ''You can tell whether you're below or above, but until you're there, you're not quite sure you are there,'' he said. ''And we know at this stage, at one and a quarter percent federal funds rate, that we are below neutral. When we arrive at neutral, we will know it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan had an audience at the Chicago Board of Trade during his testimony yesterday. (Photo by Frank Polich/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BONDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



441 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: New York City and 8 States Plan to Sue Power Plants

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Eight states and New York City plan to sue utilities today that they say are the country's biggest emitters of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping gas that scientists have linked to global warming. 
 The states and the city will not seek financial penalties but, according to a draft news release, will demand ''substantial cuts'' in the emissions, which they say ''pose serious threats to our health, our economy and our environment.''
 State and city officials familiar with the effort said yesterday that they would not discuss details of the suit until today. The planned statements and other details had changed since the draft, dated July 16, the officials said, but they did not disavow the basic thrust of the release. 
 The states are California, Connecticut, Iowa, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont and Wisconsin. The suit will be filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, according to the release.
 The document was provided to The New York Times and other news outlets by a person at an industry-financed advocacy group in Washington opposed to restrictions on carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases. 
 The companies named as defendants in the draft were American Electric Power, Cinergy, the Southern Company, the Tennessee Valley Authority and Xcel Energy. They operate a total of 174 power plants that burn fossil fuels and that the states and city say emit 646 million tons of carbon dioxide a year, or 10 percent of the national total.
 ''The states are collectively deciding that our economy, our public health, our environment is being damaged,'' Marc Violette, a spokesman for Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of New York, said.
 Many of the states in this suit as well as others have used suits to pressure out-of-state utilities to curtail nitrogen and sulfur emissions that travel long distances. Other suits have been filed by states and private organizations against the Environmental Protection Agency over carbon dioxide, saying the agency had failed to restrict the gas as a pollutant under the Clean Air Act despite growing evidence that it posed risks. 
 But the new suit is the first state legal action taken directly against companies that discharge carbon dioxide, an unavoidable byproduct of burning coal, oil and other fossil fuels. 
 New York City is joining the action, according to a statement in the draft from Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, ''out of concern for the impacts that global warming will have on the city and its residents and as part of the Bloomberg administration's commitment to maintaining a clean and sustainable Big Apple.''
 The plaintiffs plan to base the suit on federal common law of public nuisance. The common law, the news release said, ''provides a right of action to curb air and water pollution emanating from sources in other states.''
 Industry lawyers said yesterday that the plaintiffs would have a hard time making a case that carbon dioxide was a pollutant, and they noted that it flowed not only from power plants, but was also in exhaled breaths and the bubbles rising from open beer containers.
 ''Filing lawsuits is not a constructive way to deal with this issue,'' Melissa A. McHenry, a spokeswoman for American Electric Power, said. 
 Her company, Ms. McHenry said, has committed to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions 10 percent by 2006 below the average yearly discharge from 1998 to 2000, through changes at its power plants and by investing in tree plantings and other projects overseas that sop up the gas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); AIR QUALITY (76%); AIR POLLUTANTS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); CITIES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); LIGHT POLLUTION (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); NUISANCE (64%) Weather; Electric Light and Power; Air Pollution; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; States (US); Weather

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); SOUTHERN CO (84%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (55%); XCEL ENERGY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: American Electric Power Co; Cinergy Corp; Southern Company Energy Marketing; Tennessee Valley Authority; Xcel Energy Co

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%); SO (NYSE) (84%); XEL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; California; New York State; New Jersey; Vermont; Iowa; Connecticut; Wisconsin; Rhode Island

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



442 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: MICROSOFT TO PAY SPECIAL DIVIDEND TO STOCKHOLDERS

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
Microsoft, with more than $50 billion on hand, announced yesterday that it would bestow on its shareholders a special one-time dividend of $3 a share, a payout worth $32 billion. 
 Although other companies have paid special dividends in the past, the size of Microsoft's payout is far and away the largest cash grant in corporate history.
 Bill Gates, the company's chairman and largest shareholder, will receive $3.3 billion of that one-time dividend. Mr. Gates, already one of the world's richest men, will also see an extra $180 million a year from an increase in the quarterly dividends, also announced yesterday. 
 Mr. Gates pledged to give all of the one-time dividend to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which focuses on global health and education issues. The contribution will increase the size of the foundation's assets by 11 percent, to $30 billion, making it roughly three times the size of the next largest foundation in the United States. 
 In addition to the special dividend, Microsoft said it would double its quarterly dividend to 8 cents a share, a move that translates into an additional $3.5 billion a year paid to shareholders. 
 The company also announced that it would buy back as much as $30 billion of its own stock over the next four years. 
 ''The magnitude of the action being taken here is breathtaking,'' said Rick G. Sherlund, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs.
 A large cash distribution to shareholders had been expected, according to Wall Street analysts, given investor pressures. Microsoft shares soared in the 1990's, but have been treading water in recent years as the revenue growth has slowed. 
 At the same time, there has been mounting pressure on the company to do something about its mounting hoard of cash, which has ballooned to $56 billion. The $32 billion payout, which will be paid in December, will leave the company with more than $20 billion on hand. 
 ''This has been a low- to medium-grade issue for at least a year now, and a high-grade issue in the last couple of months,'' said Charles J. di Bona, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''Most investors would ask what took so long.'' 
 Microsoft generates roughly $1 billion in extra cash each month. ''I don't know any company out there that generates that kind of excess cash,'' Mr. di Bona said.
 Fifteen months ago, Microsoft announced that it would pay a quarterly dividend, a rare decision by a technology company. That decision was cast as tacit acknowledgement that Microsoft was making the transition from hot stock to a more steady, investor-friendly blue-chip stock. 
 The announcement that the company would raise its quarterly dividend ''puts us on course to be one of the largest dividend payers in any industry,'' said John Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer. According to Standard & Poor's, the move will make Microsoft the 10th-largest dividend payer in the S.&P. 500. 
 ''When you're generating cash at that pace, you have to keep distributing it out,'' Mr. di Bona said.
 The company currently invests its excess cash in a variety of investment vehicles, from bonds to mortgage-backed securities and holdings in individual stocks, Mr. Connors said. The company has earned roughly 7 percent a year over the last several years on its surplus cash.
 Analysts had expected Microsoft to announce an aggressive stock buyback plan and to increase its quarterly dividend payment. The surprise in yesterday's announcement was that the company was spending over half its cash on hand in a one-time giveback, which could even give a modest boost to the economy.
 ''The story here isn't that they're doing something about all that money they have,'' Mr. Sherlund said. ''It's that they're being big and bold in how they're choosing to spend it.''
 Microsoft announced its plans after the close of the markets. Shares of Microsoft rose 37 cents, to $28.32, at the close of the market. In after-hours trading, shares spiked more than 5 percent, to $29.91. 
 The one-time cash dividend, Mr. Sherlund said, provides ''immediate gratification'' for shareholders who have been restless over a stock price that has barely budged in the last couple of years, despite a modest rebound in technology stocks. At the same time, he noted, the company leaves itself ''with a sizable war chest moving forward.'' 
 ''Most companies hold debt,'' Mr. Sherlund said. ''This is a company with all this excess cash. This in no way inhibits its future growth opportunity.''
 But because of its recent antitrust troubles, the company is limited in its ability to spend on acquisitions because of heightened scrutiny from the government.
 Still, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, was bullish about growth in a conference call with analysts and reporters. ''As I look out over the next several years,'' Mr. Ballmer said, ''I'm confident we have some of the greatest dollar growth prospects of any company in the world. No doubt about it. Period.'' Mr. Ballmer stands to receive $1.2 billion in the one-time dividend. 
 Microsoft officials said the motivation for the announcement was the resolution of lawsuits and legal challenges against the company, many involving antitrust claims in both the United States and abroad, rather than pressures from investors. 
 ''Over the past two years or so, we've been focused on resolving our legal issues from the past and creating stronger relationships within the industry,'' said Bradford L. Smith, the company's general counsel. On June 30, a federal appeals court handed Microsoft a convincing victory in ending its domestic antitrust problems, upholding the settlement the company reached with the government two years ago.
 The company has also resolved three-quarters of the state class-action suits filed, Mr. Smith said. The company's appeal of a $603 million fine the European Commission imposed in March is still pending, ''but at least we have a better sense of the known risk,'' Mr. Connors said.
 In recent months, the company has also resolved several high-profile legal disputes with competitors, including Sun Microsystems, a settlement that cost Microsoft nearly $2 billion.
 ''We had committed to investors that once we had resolved these issues, we'd announce our plans,'' Mr. Connors said.
 The company decided to make its announcement yesterday rather than waiting until tomorrow, when the company will issue its quarterly earnings results. 
 ''There's already enough news and important analysis that analysts and investors are required to do'' without this much-anticipated announcement, Mr. Connors said.
 The plan, which the Microsoft board approved Tuesday morning, is subject to shareholder approval at the annual meeting in November.
 ''We had a lot of different scenarios we looked at,'' Mr. Connors said. ''We decided this scenario is one that met the interests and inputs of all the different constituencies.
 ''I don't think you're going to see much opposition when you're talking about a $3-a-share one-time dividend,'' Mr. Sherlund said. ''That works out to a 10 percent premium given where the stock price has been.''
 Mr. Connors said: ''The special dividend satisfied the input we received from shareholders who wanted the cash. The buyback met the input of those who thought a large-scale buyback was the appropriate action for building value.'' As for that quarterly dividend increase, Mr. Connors said that was what ''investors told us they wanted.''
 And under the tax law enacted last year, investors will be able to keep even more of their dividends in their pockets. The law cut the maximum tax rate on dividends to 15 percent, down from the maximum 35 percent that stockholders would pay on ordinary income. 
 The stock buyback will mean fewer shares outstanding, which will increase the earnings per share -- a number that is all important on Wall Street.
 ''This is all things to all people,'' said Mr. di Bona, who added that he was by and large impressed with the company's three-part plan.
 ''Bearish people will say the increase in the dividend is an admission that the company has matured and sees limited growth in the future,'' Mr. di Bona said. ''I vehemently disagree. I think all this reflects is recognition that Microsoft has created a business model that create more cash than anything we've ever seen before.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about Microsoft's decision to pay a special $3-a-share dividend misstated the schedule it has followed for its regular dividend, which is being increased. While that will now be paid quarterly, it was previously paid annually.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft, in Beijing this month, on a mission to build business. (Photo by China Photos/Reuters)(pg. C12)Chart: ''Cash Windfall''Shareholders with the largest stakes in Microsoft and the amounts they are expected to receive from the $3-a-share special dividend announced yesterday. Most are money-management companies.Bill Gates -- Microsoft's chairmanSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 1,117.67ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): $3.35Fidelity Management and ResearchSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 431.89ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 1.30Steven A. Ballmer -- Microsoft's chief executiveSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 410.97ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 1.23Barclays Global InvestorsSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 377.51ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 1.13State StreetSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 296.08ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.89Vanguard GroupSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 225.23ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.68AXASHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 179.39ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.54Capital Research and ManagementSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 171.75ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.52Wellington ManagementSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 146.31ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.44Northern TrustSHARES HELD* (MILLIONS): 140.54ONE-TIME DIVIDEND (BILLIONS): 0.42*Most recently available figures.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



443 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: How's He Doing? This Mayor Offers 47 Pages of Answers

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Abolish the Board of Education? Done.
 Renovate police precinct stations? Not done.
 Banish the City Hall press corps to Staten Island? Reconsidered.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's second annual report card on himself -- his personal record of keeping, amending or breaking 381 promises he made during his 2001 campaign -- is a mix of the serious, the mundane and the fanciful. By his own reckoning, Mr. Bloomberg improved his record from a year ago, having now fulfilled, or come close to fulfilling, 86 percent of his pledges. 
 Whereas Mayor Edward I. Koch just asked ''How'm I doing?'' to check the pulse of public approval, Mr. Bloomberg, in more technocratic fashion, released a 47-page spreadsheet yesterday entitled ''2004 Campaign Accountability Statement,'' complete with codes, categories and year-to-year updates detailing each promise and its current status.
 ''We're releasing this status report on all our initiatives,'' the mayor said, ''because I've always believed that when you make a promise, if you possibly can you keep the promise. Meeting that obligation is what every elected official ought to do.''
 The report was presented in the political theater of a street-corner news conference that even included the Brooklyn security guard, Anthony Santa Maria, whose skeptical comments to Mr. Bloomberg about politicians' truthfulness during the 2001 campaign inspired the mayor to track his own veracity. Even so, the report is rigorously apolitical, since rather than trumpet the biggest accomplishments first, it lists everything alphabetically by city agency.
 As a result, the first item in the ''done'' column is a little-remembered promise to ''make all relevant information available to the court at the earliest possible moment,'' which falls under the purview of the criminal justice coordinator. The last item in the ''not done'' category is a plan for the city to ''take advantage of tax laws that allow interest and depreciation deductibility for privately owned buildings.''
 Among the most significant of the 196 vows he says he has fulfilled, Mr. Bloomberg lists starting the 311 telephone information and complaint system, new policies for holding superintendents and principals accountable for their schools' performances, and continuing efforts to reduce crime. Promises he said he was forced to reconsider include not raising taxes and not borrowing money to help balance the budget, both of which he abandoned after taking office with multibillion-dollar deficits.
 Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said the list, first released a year ago, was compiled by aides who searched for every pledge made by Mr. Bloomberg in 2001. Last year's report contained one fewer. 
 He said the new item was the tongue-in-cheek proposal to move the City Hall press room outside Manhattan.
 ''That's been reconsidered,'' Mr. Barowitz said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg with the voter whose skepticism caused him to tally his vows, Anthony Santa Maria. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (67%); BUDGETS (66%) Mayors

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



444 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICANS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Bush Campaign Plans No Rest In Next Month

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20 

 BODY:
Seeking to blunt any advantage Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts might enjoy from the Democratic convention, President Bush's campaign has planned a monthlong offensive that will blend criticism of the Democratic ticket with what aides said would be Mr. Bush's first effort to set out a second-term agenda.
 Even as Mr. Kerry is being nominated in Boston next week, Vice President Dick Cheney will campaign on the West Coast, signaling the urgency of the White House's drive to stop Mr. Kerry from breaking the deadlock in the race. Republicans are also assembling a squad of elected officials in Boston to offer a running, critical commentary of the Democratic convention as it unfolds.
 And on July 30, the morning after Mr. Kerry accepts the nomination, Mr. Bush is scheduled to head to the Midwest for the start of what aides said would be a month of intensive campaigning. They also said that after months in which Mr. Bush has repeatedly attacked Mr. Kerry, the president would pivot and begin offering ideas for what a second Bush term would look like. 
 Mr. Bush hinted at that shift in emphasis at an Iowa campaign rally on Tuesday. The president, who is to speak again in Washington on Wednesday night and campaign in Illinois and Michigan later this week, suggested that he might not even wait until the Democratic convention to introduce a new approach.
 ''Oh, I know, you're probably here thinking I'm going to spend most of the time attacking my opponent,'' Mr. Bush said in Cedar Rapids. ''I've got too much good to talk about.'' [Page A16.]
 The Bush campaign is shifting gears at time when some Republicans have grown worried about Mr. Bush's prospects and concerned that the hard-edged and expensive campaign he has waged over the past six months has inflicted less damage on the Democrats than many had hoped. 
 Mr. Bush's job-approval ratings, historically a reliable indicator of an incumbent's prospects for re-election, remain at less than 50 percent, a level that even some Republicans said put him in a danger zone. And the next few days could prove difficult for the president. On Thursday, the commission investigating Sept. 11 is to release its final report, criticizing government efforts to prevent the attacks, and Mr. Kerry is about to enjoy a week of extensive coverage of his nominating convention.
 ''He's in a heap of trouble,'' said Clyde Wilcox, a government professor at Georgetown University said of Mr. Bush. ''I don't think the economy is really surging enough to put him back, and the public has a negative view about Iraq. He is a very spirited campaigner and he's got an amazing knack at connecting with the American people and persuading them that he's like them. But there are fewer and fewer people who remain to be persuaded.''
 Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster, said: ''Job approval rating has always been one of the greatest correlations in a presidential race. All the job approval ratings I've seen -- his disapproval in the mid-40's. I would say that's problematic.''
 The concerns voiced by Republicans on the eve of the Democratic convention suggested how much the political landscape had changed. A year ago, the White House regarded this election as an opportunity to create a fundamental realignment that would leave the Republicans the dominant party. 
 Several Republicans said on Tuesday that Mr. Bush, who has relished the opportunity to strike at Mr. Kerry, needed to begin telling Americans why he should be re-elected.
 ''He's gone through a challenging few months he's explained why we went into Iraq,'' said Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a Republican. ''Now I think he needs to switch gears to explain what he's going to do for the next four years.''
 ''Part of the responsibility of the president's campaign is to define and provide information about John Kerry,'' Mr. Pawlenty said. ''I think that's an important piece of his re-election strategy. But that can't be the only piece. People want to know not only that he is not John Kerry, but that he has his own vision for the future.''
 Democrats have long questioned the decision by the White House to have a sitting president personally engage an opponent this early in a race, and some said on Tuesday that strategy had backfired. Mr. Bush's aides said that they had no second thoughts about having put Mr. Bush out so strongly. They said Mr. Bush had always intended to use the month between the Democratic convention and the Republican convention, which begins in New York on Aug. 30, to add a discussion of a second-term agenda to his steady diet of attacks on Mr. Kerry.
 Aides said, though, that the change did not mean Mr. Bush's television commercials would sharply change. His aides said they would add more positive spots to his commercial campaign -- which has almost purely consisted of criticisms of Mr. Kerry -- but not abandon those attacks that Republicans say are crucial to Mr. Bush's hopes.
 ''We'll continue to frame the race as a comparison -- we will continue to keep the hammer on,'' said one adviser to Mr. Bush's campaign. ''But increasingly now we'll be talking about the president's agenda and vision for the future.''
 Mr. Cheney is campaigning through the start of next week, as Mr. Bush stays at his ranch in Crawford, preparing for his own trip the moment after Mr. Kerry accepts the nomination. Members of one party traditionally stand aside during the other's nominating convention.
 At the same time, in Boston, Mr. Bush's aides have summoned a group of 20 well-known party members -- including former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, and Bernard B. Kerik, a former New York police commissioner -- to hold daily news conferences and provide what aides said would a dusk-to-midnight response to whatever Democrats are doing in Boston.
 Mr. Bush's aides also said they had set up a network of Republicans in battleground states to counter the Democrats on local television stations and newspapers.
 Mr. Bush's senior campaign strategist, Matthew Dowd, discounted the concerns of some Republicans and said he was pleased with where the campaign was as Mr. Kerry prepared to accept the nomination in Boston. ''In my opinion, we're in slightly better shape than I thought we would be now,'' he said.
 ''But let me tell you one thing: We won't be outspent two-to-one in August as we were in June and July,'' Mr. Dowd said. ''That won't happen.''
 At the end of June, Mr. Bush had $64 million in the bank, and he is free to continue raising and spending money until he is officially nominated at the start of September. The moment Mr. Kerry accepts the nomination on July 29, he will receive about $75 million in federal matching money that has to last until Election Day. 
 Mr. Bush has other factors potentially in his favor, several Republicans said. The economy is showing signs of strengthening, though it remains an open question whether that is happening in time to change voter attitudes about how Mr. Bush is managing the economy. In Iraq, the transfer of sovereignty has led to some reduction in American casualties.
 Mr. Bush, as even Mr. Kerry's advisers say, has proven to be a very effective campaigner, particularly when compared with Mr. Kerry. And Mr. Bush continues to enjoy the benefits of incumbency.
 ''The advantage he has is that the external world continues to put forward factors that remind the public that he is the president,'' said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania. ''The balance tips in a subtle fashion toward the person who is doing the job in uncertain times.''
 Though Mr. Bush's job approval ratings are low, she said, ''It's possible for people to say Bush is not doing a good job and still to conclude that Kerry wouldn't do any better.''
 Still, there are signs of concern in the White House. With some polls showing Republicans losing their advantage on national security issues, Mr. Bush has begun a new push to convince voters that the war in Iraq has made them safer.
 Mr. Bush in recent days has had to campaign in solidly Republican areas, and to stress conservative issues, to maintain the enthusiasm of his base. In contrast, Mr. Kerry appears so confident of support from his base that he makes a point of saying in campaign appearances that he is appealing for the support of non-Democrats, and at one point, strongly expressed his personal opposition to abortion, without creating any stir.
 Mr. Bush has repeatedly attacked Mr. Kerry on the campaign trail, and recently went so far as to attack Mr. Kerry's chosen running mate, Senator John Edwards.
 ''We never attacked Dole,'' said Doug Sosnik, who was President Bill Clinton's political director, referring to Bob Dole, Mr. Clinton's Republican opponent in 1996. 
 ''The notion that Bill Clinton, as president of the United States, would be attacking Jack Kemp is unimaginable,'' Mr. Sosnik continued, referring to Mr. Dole's running mate.
 Mr. Sosnik argued that Mr. Bush had put himself in this position because of the way he approached the White House from the start of his administration.
 ''They did two things when they took office which were completely counterintuitive,'' Mr. Sosnik said. ''One is they acted like they had the mandate, and No. 2, they didn't act like Nixon and go to the middle. They went to their base. It's unusual; it's been the coin of their realm. I think they are paying the price for it now.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 21 about President Bush's campaign plans for the rest of the summer referred imprecisely to the trend in American military casualties in Iraq after the transfer of sovereignty there on June 28. From the transfer date to the date on which the article was written, casualties increased compared with the same length of time before the transfer; they did not show "some reduction."


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Tim Pawlenty said the Bush strategy had to go beyond attacks. (Photo by Amel Emric/Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); DICK CHENEY (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (54%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Rudolph W (Mayor) Giuliani; Richard W Stevenson; Clyde (Prof) Wilcox; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Boston (Mass); Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004



445 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Lucent Extends Its Profit Streak

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Lucent Technologies, the nation's biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, said yesterday that the three months ended June 30 was its most profitable quarter since the end of 2000. 
 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., had net income of $387 million, or 8 cents a share, in the period, its third fiscal quarter, on revenue of $2.19 billion That was in contrast to a net loss of $254 million, or 7 cents a share, on revenue of $1.96 billion in the period a year earlier. 
Factoring in several accounting adjustments, Lucent earned 4 cents a share in the most recent quarter, 2 cents better than Wall Street had projected.
 Patricia F. Russo, Lucent's chairwoman and chief executive, said that demand was strengthening for voice-over-Internet, mobile high-speed data and broadband products.
 Lucent's continuing if slow recovery from a recession that took it to the brink of bankruptcy -- this was its fourth consecutive quarter in the black -- led Fitch Ratings to upgrade its rating on $6 billion of Lucent debt. The changes included lifting senior unsecured debt to B from B-. 
 Although the quarter confirmed that spending by big communications companies has rebounded, it also showed that demand remained far from robust. Revenue was essentially flat compared with the year's first quarter. Revenue in the United States rose 7 percent from the first three months, to $1.4 billion, but it was offset by a 10 percent decline in overseas revenue, to $785 million.
 Investors sent Lucent's shares as high as $3.59 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange after the earnings were announced, but they retreated during the day along with the rest of the stock market and closed down 3 cents, to $3.37. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BONDS (74%); BROADBAND (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) Company Reports ; Corporate Bonds; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Lucent Technologies Inc; Fitch Ratings

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: PATRICIA RUSSO (59%) Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



446 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: N.H.L. Offers Six Proposals To Cut Costs to the Union

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The National Hockey League offered six ways to produce cost certainty on player salaries during negotiations with its union yesterday in Manhattan, but the union said afterward that the proposals amounted to a salary cap, which it rejects.
 The league is seeking a new labor agreement that would produce a radical overhaul of an economic system that it says has produced steep losses. If negotiations do not lead to an agreement to replace the one that expires on Sept. 15, the league could lock out the players. 
 The league locked out the players to start the 1994-95 season, cutting each team's schedule to 48 games.
 Bill Daly, an executive vice president of the league, said that the proposals were ''not all that different'' from each other, but that each would lead to cost certainty, a mantra for Commissioner Gary Bettman in his effort to make player costs align more closely with revenues. The league's new TV deal with ESPN cuts its payments nearly in half.
 Daly said that not all of the six proposals involved ''a link between revenues and player costs.''
 ''We've said there are a number of ways to do this,'' he added.
 He declined to describe where salary caps were included, preferring to talk about ''control mechanisms.''
 Daly said that the four-hour meeting, the first formal negotiating session since May 25, was designed to present the six concepts, and that the union asked for more information, which would be provided at a meeting on Aug. 4 in Toronto.
 ''They didn't say they were receptive to any one of the six,'' Daly said.
 Ted Saskin, senior director of business affairs for the N.H.L. Players' Association, said, ''There's no reason to be optimistic.''
 Saskin said he saw nothing new in the proposals. ''Each of them had a concept that total player compensation wouldn't exceed an agreed-upon amount of N.H.L. revenues,'' he said. ''Five were structured in a certain way, the sixth was a little different, but it would still have a link with player compensation and what the league was prepared to recognize as leaguewide revenues.'' 
 He added that they all ''begin and end with a salary cap, so that doesn't provide us with any basis for progress.'' 
 ''All the ideas were predicated on negotiating a percentage for player costs, which they know we aren't prepared to negotiate,'' Saskin said.
 There is a wide gap between the two sides. They disagree on how to define a salary cap and leaguewide revenue. They also have different views on the league's competitive balance.
 ''The bottom line is we have to talk the same language when it comes to what we've actually proposed, and what they want us to propose,'' Daly said. ''I'm not sure we'll ever define a salary cap the same way or speak the same language, but we have to better understand each other.''
 The National Basketball Association and the National Football League have salary caps, while Major League Baseball has revenue sharing and a luxury tax on high-salaried clubs. If a new labor agreement is not in place by Sept. 16, the league will lay off more than half of the 300 employees in its New York, New Jersey, Montreal and Toronto offices by Sept. 20, said Bernadette Mansur, a league spokeswoman. They would receive severance pay, vacation compensation and extended medical benefits, she said. Remaining employees would not have to take salary cuts.
 ''We hope we'll never have to implement this,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Hockey, Ice; Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



447 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
5Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: ARMY TO CALL UP RECRUITS EARLIER

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
In what critics say is another sign of increasing stress on the military, the Army has been forced to bring more new recruits immediately into the ranks to meet recruiting goals for 2004, instead of allowing them to defer entry until the next accounting year, which starts in October.
 As a result, recruiters will enter the new year without the usual cushion of incoming soldiers, making it that much harder to make their quotas for 2005. Instead of knowing the names of nearly half the coming year's expected arrivals in October, as the Army did last year, or even the names of around one in three, as is the normal goal, this October the recruiting command will have identified only about one of five of the boot camp class of 2005 in advance.
 Army officials say they have been unable to defer as many enlistments as in the past because 4,500 more recruits were needed at midyear to help meet a temporary increase of 30,000 soldiers in the active duty force, which is to grow to 512,000 by 2006. The rises are largely driven by the Iraq and Afghanistan missions. 
 In an interview on Wednesday, Lt. Gen. Franklin L. Hagenbeck, the Army's top personnel officer, said the Army would use incentives like bonuses, educational benefits and choice base assignments to meet its recruiting and re-enlistment goals next year, as it has in almost every year when it started with so few advance recruits. But he acknowledged that factors including the American casualties in Iraq and the improving job market made filling the ranks a challenge.
 ''I worry about this every single day -- recruiting and retention,'' said General Hagenbeck, who commanded forces in Afghanistan in his previous assignment. ''We are recruiting a volunteer force during a time of war. We've never done that before.''
 He also described plans to bring on as many as 1,000 new recruiters before the end of the year, and said the Army was looking to expand the role of private civilian contractors. 
 Still, some critics on Capitol Hill and among Army recruiters say that tapping into the bank of recruits is a telling sign that the Army is having problems filling its ranks to meet the deployments of more than 120,000 soldiers to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 In recent weeks, the Army has said it will recruit thousands of sailors and airmen who are otherwise scheduled to leave the Navy and Air Force because of cutbacks. Starting this month, the Army may delay the retirements of soldiers with at least 20 years' experience if they are in jobs that face critical staffing shortages. The Army's top training forces at Fort Polk, La., and Fort Irwin, Calif., are being deployed for the first time, to Iraq, raising concerns among some officers that troops will not be given the most strenuous preparation possible before they leave the United States. 
 ''The Army is stretched dangerously thin,'' Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, told Gen. Peter J. Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, in a hearing on Wednesday. 
 ''We are growing the Army as fast as we can,'' General Schoomaker said later in the hearing. 
 In interviews with recruiting officials, as well as in internal memos and e-mail messages obtained by The New York Times, this pressure to meet recruiting goals is evident. 
 ''Guys the mission is at risk!'' Col. Peter M. Vangjel, a deputy commander of the Army Recruiting Command, wrote to battalion commanders and top enlisted soldiers in an April 21 e-mail message. ''We can NOT miss this mission. I need your full support.'' 
 Colonel Vangjel continued, ''The CG is the next guy to talk to you about this,'' referring to the commanding general of the recruiting command, Maj. Gen. Michael D. Rochelle. ''Don't let it happen.'' 
 But in a June 23 memo to the same senior recruiters, Colonel Vangjel expressed disappointment, saying that in the previous several months, the command ''experienced a downward production trend.'' 
 Army officials disclosed Wednesday that none of the Army's five recruiting brigades met their missions between March and July, forcing the service to tap into its bank of recruits to make up the difference.
 General Hagenbeck said that Army recruiting was shaped by a number of intangibles, most notably the economy, which attracts possible recruits into the private sector when it is strong and sends them toward the military during a downturn. 
 General Hagenbeck also described the critical role played by parents, teachers and coaches as to whether high school graduates consider Army service -- recruiters call them ''the influencers.'' Fears that these influencers would no longer endorse Army service were raised in April, he said, when the military's public standing sustained severe blows. 
 An Army survey conducted as the nation was rocked by pictures of military police abusing and humiliating Iraqi detainees at Abu Ghraib prison -- which coincided with a spike in combat deaths -- raised concerns that the ''influencers were drawing back,'' he said. 
 A month later, though, those negative perceptions had diminished, the Army found, and there is no solid evidence that recruiting will be affected over time, the general said. 
 Once soldiers initially enlist, they usually wait one month to one year before they formally enlist and are shipped to basic training. As of June 30, there were 2,260 recruits in the delayed entry program, down from 12,236 recruits a year ago.
 By dipping into this personnel bank, some recruiting officials said, the Army is eating its seed corn. ''They are stealing from the future to accomplish their current accession mission,'' said one Army recruiting official, referring to the enlisted recruits sent to basic training. 
 Some congressional officials said, though, that the Army was making a smart move. ''But they must be prepared to put additional manpower and funding against recruiting to achieve the increased recruiting objectives and to restore the D.E.P. at the same time,'' said one senior House Republican aide, using the program's acronym.
 General Hagenbeck said the Army was doing that. Before the Sept. 11 attacks, the Army had moved hundreds of recruiters into other jobs, as the service was easily filling slots. In the current environment, General Hagenbeck said, 100 to 200 civilian recruiters will staff recruiting stations and seek out enlistees, and 650 to 1,000 soldiers will be moved into recruiter slots before the year's end. 
 General Hagenbeck said that all 10 of the Army's active-duty divisions had met their re-enlistment goals, but it is coming at a steep price. The Army is offering re-enlistment bonuses up to $10,000 a soldier. The retention budget has nearly doubled in five years, to a request for $204 million in the proposed budget for 2005. 
 Army officials and members of Congress say that much of the data on recruiting and retention trends are anecdotal, and may remain so at least through the next troop rotation to Iraq, when soldiers could leave the service as they emerge from a ''stop loss, stop move'' order that held them in their units for the duration of their deployments.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''UPDATE: Army Accelerates Training of Recruits''To meet this year's goals, the Army is having to tap into a pool of recruits scheduled to enter the service next year.Graph tracks the percentage of recruiting goal filled at start of fiscal year from 1995 into *2005.*Current estimate.(Source by Department of the Army)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Military Bases and Installations; Bonuses; United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Labor; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; Thom Shanker; Franklin L (Lt Gen) Hagenbeck

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



448 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: More Jobs, Worse Work

BYLINE: By Stephen S. Roach. 
Stephen S. Roach is chief economist for Morgan Stanley.

 BODY:
The state of the American labor market remains the defining issue of the current economic debate. Through February, the United States was mired in the depths of the worst jobless recovery of the post-World War II era. Now, there are signs the magic may be back. More than a million jobs have been added to total nonfarm payrolls over the past four months, the sharpest increase since early 2000.
 These gains certainly compare favorably with the net loss of 594,000 jobs in the first 27 months of this recovery. But there's little cause for celebration: the increases barely make a dent in the weakest hiring cycle in modern history. From the trough of the last recession in November 2001 through last month, private sector payrolls have risen a paltry 0.2 percent. This stands in contrast to the nearly 7.5 percent increase recorded, on average, over the comparable 31-month interval of the six preceding recoveries. 
 Nor is there much reason to celebrate the type of jobs that have been created over the past four months. In general, they have been at the lower end of the economic spectrum.
 By industry, the leading sources of hiring turn out to be restaurants, temporary hiring agencies and building services. These three categories, which make up only 9.7 percent of total nonfarm payrolls, accounted for 25 percent of the cumulative growth in overall hiring from March to June. Hiring has also accelerated at clothing stores, courier services, hotels, grocery stores, trucking businesses, hospitals, social work agencies, business support companies and providers of personal and laundry services. This group, which makes up 12 percent of the nonfarm work force, accounted for 19 percent of the total growth in business payrolls over the past four months.
 That's not to say there hasn't been any improvement at the upper end of the labor market, with the construction industry leading the way. At the same time, there has been increased hiring in several of the higher-end professions: there is more demand for lawyers, architects, engineers, computer scientists and bankers. Manufacturing, however, has continued to lag.
 Putting these pieces together, there can be no mistaking the unusual bifurcation of the recent improvement in the American labor market. Lower-end industries, which employ 22 percent of the work force, accounted for 44 percent of new hiring from March to June. Higher-end industries, which make up 24 percent of overall employment, accounted for 29 percent of total job growth over the past four months.
 In short, jobs are growing at both ends of the spectrum, but the low-paying jobs are growing much more quickly. The contribution of low-end industries to the recent pick-up in hiring has been almost double the share attributable to high-end industries.
 An equally dramatic picture emerges from the survey of American households. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the total count of persons at work part time -- both for economic and non-economic reasons -- increased by 495,000 from March to June. That amounts to an astonishing 97 percent of the cumulative increase of the total growth in employment measured by the household survey over this period. By this measure, as the hiring dynamic has shifted gears in recent months, the bulk of the benefits have all but escaped America's full-time work force.
 Finally, the occupational breakdown of the American labor market, as also sampled by the survey of households, provides yet another facet of the character of the recent hiring upturn. It turns out that fully 81 percent of total job growth over the past year was concentrated in low-end occupations in transportation and material moving, sales and repair and maintenance services. At the upper end of the occupational hierarchy, increases in construction and professional jobs were partly offset by sharp declines in the numbers of production workers, who mainly toil in manufacturing plants.
 Consequently, from three different vantage points -- employment breakdowns by industry, by occupation and by degree of attachment -- the same basic picture emerges: While there has been an increase in job creation over the past four months -- an unusually belated and anemic spurt by historical standards -- the bulk of the activity has been at the low end of the quality spectrum. The Great American Job Machine is not even close to generating the surge of the high-powered jobs that is typically the driving force behind greater incomes and consumer demand. 
 This puts households under enormous pressure. Desperate to maintain lifestyles, they have turned to far riskier sources of support. Reliance on tax cuts has led to record budget deficits, and borrowing against homes has led to record household debt. These trends are dangerous and unsustainable, and they pose a serious risk to economic recovery. 
 We hear repeatedly that the employment disconnect is all about productivity -- that America needs to hire fewer workers because the ones already working are more efficient. This may well be true, but there is a more compelling explanation: global labor arbitrage. Under unrelenting pressure to cut costs, American companies are now replacing high-wage workers here with like-quality, low-wage workers abroad. With new information technologies allowing products and now knowledge-based services to flow more easily across borders, global labor arbitrage is likely to be an enduring feature of the economy. 
 Hiring always moves up and down. But it is evident from the experiences of Europe and Japan that new structural forces can come into play that have a lasting impact on job creation. Such is now the case in America.
 It was only a matter of time before the globalization of work affected the United States labor market. The character and quality of American job creation is changing before our very eyes. Which poses the most important question of all: what are we going to do about it?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Stephen Doyle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); STATISTICS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (64%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%); TRUCKING (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Part-Time Employment; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Stephen S Roach

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



449 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Japan Almost Doubles Forecast for Economic Growth

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 21 

 BODY:
The Japanese government nearly doubled its forecast for the nation's economic growth to 3.5 percent for the year ending March 2005, the result of a sharp upturn in business investment and increased consumer spending.
 The new outlook is in line with forecasts by private economists, and, if achieved, would be Japan's fastest growth since 1997, when the economy expanded 3.6 percent. The cabinet office of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi had previously forecast the economy would grow 1.8 percent in the current fiscal year.
 The cabinet office also said, however, that it expected growth to slow to ''slightly more than 2 percent'' in the following fiscal year, which ends in March 2006. That forecast, too, is roughly in line with the views of private economists, most of whom expect Japan's expansion to decelerate as corporate investment slows and China's torrid economic growth continues to cool. Japan's economy is closely tied to China's, and therefore vulnerable to any slowdown there. 
 The government broke with tradition by offering a revision to its economic forecasts so early in the year, but after two quarters of surprisingly strong growth, the government's forecasts had begun to look unrealistically low. Generally, the cabinet office has released its economic forecasts in the fall. Wednesday was also the first time the office made projections for the following fiscal year. 
 Japan's gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 6.1 percent for the quarter ended in March as consumer demand -- the missing element from previous short-lived recoveries -- rebounded, adding to already strong exports and business investment.
 In its new forecast, the cabinet office said it expected rising business investment to continue to make a big contribution to overall economic growth. Capital investment by companies was expected to rise 9.9 percent in the current fiscal year, while consumer spending was anticipated to be up 2.6 percent.
 ''Amid a global economic recovery, the rise in production and capital investment continues and now is expected to broaden to the household sector,'' the cabinet office wrote in a brief report accompanying its forecasts.
 The report forecast that government investment would shrink 12.5 percent for the fiscal year, in line with a promise by Mr. Koizumi's government to rein in the nation's growing budget deficit.
 As Japan shows unexpected economic vitality, few economists seem to doubt the country will meet the growth estimates for the current fiscal year. And so, economists are turning their attention to 2005. 
 Although consumer spending has recently begun to pick up, the main driver of Japan's two-year old economic recovery continues to be growth overseas, particularly in the United States and China. Strong demand for Japanese electronic goods, like cellphones, flat-panel televisions and DVD players, has driven an investment binge by manufacturers.
 While business investment is expected to continue for much of the remainder of this year, many economists doubt it will last into 2005.
 ''We believe we are getting toward the end of the expansion,'' said Robert Feldman, chief economist for Morgan Stanley in Tokyo.
 Also, any cooling in China's growth will curtail investment by Japanese companies that have been benefiting from China's rapid expansion in recent years, he added. For the Japanese economy, ''the China component is going to slow down,'' said Mr. Feldman, who forecasts Japan's economy will slow to 0.9 percent in the 2005 fiscal year. ''Even if there's a soft landing in China, it's a landing.''
 But Peter Morgan, an economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo, said he did not believe that a slowdown in China would significantly hurt the Japanese economy. He argued that many of Japan's exports to China are components that are assembled in Chinese factories into goods bound for the United States and other markets. Therefore, he said, Japanese exports to China might remain relatively strong even if growth there slowed.
 ''The bulk of Japan's exports to China are being re-exported,'' Mr. Morgan said. The impact to Japan, therefore, ''is probably not as big as most people are expecting.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinese cargo ships at Yokohama. Trade with China is a crucial element in Japan's economic growth. (Photo by Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. W1)
 Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, left, and Heizo Takenaka, the economy minister, attended the economic policy council meeting yesterday. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Capital Investment; Consumer Behavior

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



450 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Profits Most From Loans, Not Cars 

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 21 

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company may be two of the world's largest automakers, but they continue to make their money as banks. 
 So with interest rates rising, and competitors like the Toyota Motor Corporation far more profitable in the industry's core business of manufacturing cars and trucks, the market has reacted cautiously to the improved earnings reports by Ford on Tuesday and G.M. on Wednesday. 
 G.M. reported that second-quarter earnings totaled $1.3 billion, up 49 percent from the period a year earlier, an increase fueled largely by its financial services division.
 Auto sales in Asia remain especially lucrative for G.M., which has capitalized more successfully on the surging Chinese market than has Ford. But car and truck sales in North America continued to produce only slight, albeit improving, returns for G.M. The company has been losing market share in the United States despite heavy spending on rebates as high as $5,000 and offers of no-interest financing for many of its vehicles. 
 And in Europe, G.M. has reported wider losses this year.
 In New York Stock Exchange trading Wednesday, G.M. shares fell 25 cents, or 0.57 percent, to $43.35. 
 On Tuesday, Ford reported $1.17 billion in net income, much of it from its financing operation. It said it had a slight loss in its automotive operations. Ford's shares fell 2.5 percent in New York Stock Exchange trading. They fell another 7 cents, to close at $14.53 on Wednesday.
 G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler's Chrysler unit are spending more on incentives than rivals like Toyota and Nissan. 
 ''We still have much work to do to improve our automotive profitability to targeted levels,'' Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 
 G.M.'s considerable array of brands includes Chevrolet, Buick and GMC; more expensive brands like Cadillac and Hummer; and foreign-based brands like Saab.
 Over all, and excluding special items in the second quarter, the company earned $2.36 a share, 12 cents above the consensus estimate of Wall Street analysts compiled by Thomson First Call. 
 Revenue rose 7 percent, to $49.1 billion, from $45.9 billion a year earlier. But global automotive market share slipped to 14.7 percent from 14.9 percent a year earlier. 
 Facing shrinking market share and bloated inventories in the United States, especially in sport utility vehicles and pickups, the company projected slimmer third-quarter earnings than analysts have been expecting. G.M. had already announced that it would trim production in the quarter. 
 John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said G.M. was making steady improvements ''in the face of an increasingly competitive environment.'' 
 ''However,'' he added, ''the difficulty of improving results in an overcrowded North American market is a major factor limiting margin expansion.'' 
 In recent years, foreign competitors of G.M and Ford have entered the S.U.V. market in force and redoubled their efforts to sell large pickups, putting pressure on what was a considerably less competitive profit center in the late 1990's. 
 In its earnings announcement Wednesday, G.M. reiterated its earnings target of $7 a share for the year. But according to John M. Devine, G.M.'s chief financial officer, a new accounting rule proposed this week by the Financial Accounting Standards Board could reduce earnings by $1 a share this year. 
 The rule would require companies to dilute earnings immediately when they issue a relatively new kind of debt, called contingently convertible bonds, just as they do with other convertible debt. 
 G.M. is the largest issuer of these bonds, known as Co-Co's, and would have to adjust its 2004 earnings to comply. 
 ''To be frank, this came totally out of the blue for us,'' Mr. Devine said in a conference call to discuss the company's earnings. ''To say the least, this sort of thing is very disruptive to us. It's costly.'' 
 Out of G.M.'s $1.3 billion profit, $860 million came from the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the company's financing division, up from $834 million a year earlier. G.M.'s automotive operations earned a net $529 million, up from $140 million a year earlier. 
 Within G.M.'s automotive group, the Asia-Pacific business earned $236 million. While the company's North American automotive operations earned $328 million, that profit came from far higher volumes. 
 In Europe, G.M. is in the midst of a reorganization. G.M. Europe reported a loss of $45 million in the second quarter, compared with a loss of $3 million a year earlier. 
 ''Europe continues to be disappointing and really unacceptable,'' Mr. Devine said. 
 He said that in the European operations, ''we're still not cracking the code in terms of being profitable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: This Cadillac made by General Motors drew a crowd last month at an auto show in Beijing. G.M. says that the Asian market, especially in China, has been lucrative. (Photo by Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Chart/Map: ''The Action Is in Asia''General Motors profits in the second quarter were bolstered by a strong performance in China, which is becoming one of the company's most important markets.Chart/Map tracks profit or loss, second quarter since 2003 for North America, Latin America, Africa and Middle East, Europe and Asia/Pacific.(Source by General Motors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SALES REBATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Automobiles; Company Reports; Credit; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



451 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Europe Warms to Idea of Unified Military Agency

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: FARNBOROUGH, England, July 21 

 BODY:
Hopes are high in Europe for the newly created European Defense Agency, which aims to consolidate military research and spending across the 25 countries, amid some skepticism from the private sector.
 Executives from European military companies attending the air show here this week said a unified front was probably the best way for Europe to provide security and resist what they said were heavy-handed sales tactics used by United States aerospace companies and the American government.
 But the executives fear the European agency will be hobbled by bureaucracy, stifled by shrinking military budgets and ultimately rendered impotent by the inability of its members to agree on anything at all. 
 ''There's a great debate in Europe about the amount of research and development spending, and about how Europe takes care of its own defense without being reliant on the United States,'' said Ian McNamee, managing director of Gripen International, a Swedish-British company that makes fighter jets. The company is owned by Saab and BAE Systems. 
 After tensions over the Iraq war threatened to destabilize the European Union's shared foreign security policy, the European Defense Agency was formed in November and received financing in June. The agency's annual budget is only $30.6 million in an industry of monumental worldwide spending: Europe's military spending was $195 billion in 2003, and the total figure in the United States, Canada and Mexico was more than $400 billion. 
 Still, the agency's mandate is huge: pinpoint Europe's military shortfalls, then coordinate spending and research among European Union countries long accustomed to competing.
 Plans for such an agency have existed for many years, ''but this is the first time that the E.U. has had the political authority to launch collective military operations,'' and has defined goals for what it is trying to achieve, said Alyson J.K. Bailes, director of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, which monitors military spending worldwide. Military suppliers in Europe are on the offensive. Consolidation in the United States has created giant competitors that are pressing countries around the world to buy American weapons and equipment, even as Congress talks of a ''Buy American'' bill that would limit the United States' purchase of European military products.
 Tension between the industries in the United States and Europe is being fueled by an increasingly shrill fight between Airbus and Boeing over research and subsidies. 
 Military budgets, meanwhile, are shrinking in Europe. Most recently, on Wednesday, the Ministry of Defense in Britain scaled back its budget. The ministry said that it planned to cut 15,000 jobs and save $5.2 billion by 2008, by reducing the number of troops and improving technology.
 ''The European defense industry needs to become far more effective and efficient,'' said Mark Stoker, a military economist at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London. ''There needs to be someone leading from the front.''
 The new agency is being run initially by Nick Witney, formerly director general of international security policy at the Ministry of Defense in Britain; Europe's defense ministers will be on the board. The success of the agency could be important to ensuring the independence of European companies and countries, industry executives say.
 Mr. McNamee of Gripen said, ''I don't think anyone wants to become a vassal state to the United States'' and be forced to buy products without access to the technology behind them.
 That is not to say that European companies have not had any success in selling to their neighbors. In June, Gripen won a $750 million contract to lease 14 JAS-39 fighter jets for the Czech Republic, beating out Lockheed Martin's F-16. 
 Officials in the United States have been critical of the new agency, in part because it operates outside of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. European companies argue that the European Defense Agency will ultimately be beneficial to the United States.
 ''We're not doing this against the United States, as is often wrongly understood,'' said Philippe Camus, chief executive of the aerospace giant EADS, and one of the most vocal supporters of the agency's creation. ''We're doing it to be a real partner, not to contradict.'' 
 A strong European agency will have a greater ability to contribute to the Western world's overall military capacity, he said. 
 New members of the European Union say they are cautiously enthusiastic.
 ''It's difficult to find the proper border'' between cooperation and competition, said Leos Liska, development manager at LOM Praha, a Czech Republic company that modernizes aircraft to fit NATO standards and trains pilots. 
 One big issue will be who owns the copyrights for products developed under the umbrella of the new agency, Mr. Liska added. Still, he said, ''We have to quickly embark on this movement; it is time to catch a wave.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at a Gripen factory in Sweden. Gripen won a contract to lease jet fighters to the Czech Republic. (Photo by Jonas Lemberg/Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 Philippe Camus, EADS chief, supports a defense agency. ''We're not doing this against the United States, as is often wrongly understood.'' (Photo by Arnd Wiegmann/Reuters)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); LAYOFFS (72%); AIRLINES (67%) Farnborough Air Show (Gb); Airlines and Airplanes; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

COMPANY: BAE SYSTEMS PLC (90%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Defense Agency; European Union

TICKER: BA (LSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) Europe; Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



452 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; BOLDFACE NAMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: You Can Well Imagine Our Weltschmerz

BYLINE: By Campbell Robertson; With David Jay Lasky in Los Angeles, John Holl in North Bergen, N.J., and Melena Z. Ryzik

 BODY:
Everyone is always asking us: how can my Weltanschauung stay in line with the Zeitgeist?
It is very complicated, we answer, because the Zeitgeist is so flighty and distracted. Did you know, for example, that retail store openings are the new black? 
 Just last week there was the Prada opening in Beverly Hills, with guests including PARIS HILTON, NICKY HILTON, NICOLE RICHIE, THORA BIRCH and ELLEN DEGENERES. 
 MISCHA BARTON, who was there with BRANDON DAVIS, answered our questions by staring at us and not saying anything. 
 And on Tuesday night, the glitterati (or, to be more accurate, the hipsterati, or perhaps the unemployederati) came out in Brooklyn to celebrate the opening of a Target store.
 Hey, my Weltanschauung must be en forme, says a reader from New Jersey, because I was at the Target opening on the same night in North Bergen, N.J., where the mayor, NICHOLAS SACCO, cut the ribbon and everybody drank sparkling lemonade and ate cheese cubes and there was a cake with the Target dog frosted on top.
 To which we respond: no, no, no; it's different. We can't say why exactly, but irony is complicated.
 In Brooklyn, a rock band played and a D.J. spun hip-hop as shoppers roamed the aisles with baskets full of potato chips and water filters. The area by the escalators was cleared for performances by the Brooklyn Double Dutch girls as well as by PRINCESS ANANKA and her albino Burmese python CASPER. 
 Near the women's sportswear section, SANDRA BERNHARD stood before a crowd of dazed-looking hipsters and barked into a microphone.
 ''Are you ready to shop?'' she shouted, with a deranged intensity we think was an act. ''Are you ready to spend some money?'' 
 The crowd stared. 
 CHLOE SEVIGNY showed up with an ink-black-haired MAGGIE GYLLENHAAL, who posed for a few photographs and hit the road.
 A few minutes later, we found Ms. Sevigny under the harsh fluorescent lighting, rifling through a rack of ISAAC MIZRAHI skirts and being stopped every five seconds by somebody wanting to take her picture. 
 ''My friend is actually the publicist,'' Ms. Sevigny said. ''My ex-boyfriend's sister's in town, so I thought it would be fun.''
 Fun, sure. But a little weird, no?
 ''Parties in stores are always weird,'' she said, bringing up past occasions at Bendel's and at Bergdorf Goodman's. ''And this light is particularly flattering.''
 Later, Ms. Bernhard was heard screaming, ''Everyone who is in charge of this event has left! They're all doing lines in the back!'' 
 And still later: ''He just asked me what time do I have to be here till? Until I can leave, and that'll be a few minutes away!''
 Afterward, she told us that she had done a couple of Target openings in California.
 Dear Reader, we explored. We wandered by the hot dog stand next to the sportswear section; we passed the tables on the first and second floors where caterers handed out margaritas and beer. 
 We looked for Mr. Mizrahi (we were told he was there), LYDIA HEARST and the rapper LOON. 
 We saw the man in the spray-painted overalls, the tattooed lady and the woman standing near the freezer wolfing her way through a box of Cookie Crisp.
 And at the end of all our exploration, we listened to two very excited men known as the NEISTAT BROTHERS pitching a commercial for detergent to the fashion designer CYNTHIA ROWLEY.
 ''You see the paintbrush dip into the All detergent,'' one of the Neistats said. 
 ''Got it,'' Ms. Rowley said. 
 ''And you see her and you see her face poised; you know she's looking at a canvas. You cut to the canvas: it's a T-shirt with a gigantic coffee stain across the front of it.''
 Ms. Rowley nodded until they were finished. She had come from Manhattan with some friends including ALAN CUMMING, whom we had seen earlier at a party unveiling C-IN2, a line of men's underwear. (He was lounging on some pillows outside a room where men in boxers and briefs were posing on large white cubes.)
 We began talking to Mr. Cumming, who was wearing a blue T-shirt with the word Jerk on it, but he demurred.
 ''No, no,'' he said. ''I'm a little drunk right now, so I don't want to talk to you.'' With David Jay Lasky in Los Angeles, John Holl in North Bergen, N.J., and Melena Z. Ryzik

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); MAYORS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (71%); ELLEN DEGENERES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006



453 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Bush Sketches His Agenda For U.S. in a Second Term

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
President Bush on Wednesday set out the broad principles that he said would guide his domestic agenda for a second term, saying he would tackle education, health care, energy and the economy through an emphasis on limited government, individual responsibility and the power of markets.
 But Mr. Bush offered no details and only the barest outlines of new initiatives as his campaign begins what aides said would be a effort of several weeks to flesh out for voters what he would do if re-elected. Mr. Bush said he would embark on a new effort to ensure that high school graduates were well prepared for work or college. He suggested that he would seek to extend or tighten rules requiring welfare recipients to seek work, and to emphasize the role of community colleges in training workers. He talked of expanding access to health care. And he alluded, without being specific, to his proposal to add personal investment accounts to Social Security. 
 His approach, he said, would derive from some basic convictions. ''Government should never try to control or dominate the lives of our citizens,'' he said. ''.That government can and should help citizens gain the tools to make their own choices and to improve their own lives; that when men and women have a sound education and the skills to seek new opportunities, and the security of health care, they will achieve great things for themselves and for our nation.''
 He contrasted his philosophy with that of his likely Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. Mr. Bush characterized Mr. Kerry as intent on expanding the size of the federal government, raising taxes and giving bureaucrats control over the lives of individuals.
 Mr. Bush made his remarks at a fund-raiser at the Washington Convention Center for Republican House and Senate candidates. The event raised more than $22 million.
 The speech was the first step in the Bush campaign's plan to have the president begin setting out his vision of what he would seek to accomplish in a second term. The White House has been under increasing pressure from Republicans to stop focusing on attacking Mr. Kerry and offer more of a positive, forward-looking agenda.
 But while Mr. Bush spent a part of the speech laying out an optimistic vision of what can be achieved if he is re-elected, he did not let up on Mr. Kerry andhis running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. He chided Mr. Kerry for holding a fund-raiser in New York this month at which several entertainers made lewd and biting comments about Mr. Bush. He mocked Mr. Edwards for once having been named one of People magazine's sexiest politicians.
 When it came to laying out details of his agenda, Mr. Bush was vague in part because his advisers want to roll out his ideas between now and the Republican convention to blunt any advantage that Mr. Kerry might get from the Democratic convention next week. 
 But the sketchiness of the plans he mentioned also reflected what some Republicans said was the budgetary constraint imposed by the large deficit as well as difficulty within the White House in reaching consensus on how ambitious to be in proposing second-term initiatives.
 The Kerry campaign said Mr. Bush had failed to offer any new ideas and that his existing agenda, if carried forward, would hurt the middle class.
 ''For a speech that was supposed to start laying out an agenda, it's difficult to spot what was new about it besides the hype,'' said Phil Singer, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign. ''The fact is that George Bush has been in office for four years and has yet to focus on the needs of American families.''
 Most of the items Mr. Bush touched on in his speech were existing proposals, some of which he has pushed for years. He repeatedly emphasized the importance of reducing what he called ''junk lawsuits'' and large damage awards that he said drove up the cost of health care and cost the economy jobs. He called for passage of his energy plan, which is centered on encouraging more domestic oil and gas production. He called for harnessing information technology to cut health care costs.
 Some Republican commentators have taken the White House to task for not developing a more robust and well-thought-out domestic agenda, saying that a lack of new ideas endangered Mr. Bush's re-election and created the risk that he would drift in a second term if he does win. 
 But some of the ideas Mr. Bush favors carry political risks. His plan for overhauling Social Security drew intense fire again on Wednesday from Democrats who said it would result in benefit cuts for retirees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%) United States; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Politics and Government; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health ; Energy and Power; United States Economy; United States

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



454 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says More Spending And Hiring Will Help Economy

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
The economy will benefit next year if businesses shed their unusual reluctance to spend and hire, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress on Wednesday.
 In a second day of testimony on the central bank's semiannual report on monetary policy, Mr. Greenspan told the House Committee on Financial Services that even with the recovery gaining pace, corporate America has held back from new capital investments, inventory building and permanent hires. 
 ''We are far from behaving the way we typically did'' with other expansions, Mr. Greenspan said in answering questions from the panel. He attributed the corporate restraint to a number of ''caution-creating factors.'' He cited the bursting of the stock market bubble in 2000, a spate of corporate scandals and latent fears of terrorist attacks as factors that had made businesses less willing to take risks.
 In his opening remarks, Mr. Greenspan stuck to the upbeat script he used Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee, which led markets to brace for a slightly faster increase in interest rates than they had been expecting.
 United States bond prices extended Tuesday's losses on Wednesday. Stock prices, which rose on Tuesday, slipped on corporate profit concerns.
 Lawmakers from both parties did their best to draw Mr. Greenspan into an election-year debate over fiscal policy, with limited success.
 Mr. Greenspan said the sizable tax cuts President Bush pushed through Congress provided a welcome economic stimulus, but he offered a warning on the long-term budget outlook.
 ''I think the tax cuts were effective in stemming the extent of decline in the weakness of the economy,'' he said. ''Looking forward, fiscal policy is going to become a very critical issue on the agenda for macroeconomic policy.
 ''I would prefer lower spending and lower taxes and lower deficits,'' Mr. Greenspan said.
 He renewed a call for restoration of budget discipline rules, including spending caps and requirements that new expenditures or tax cuts be offset elsewhere in the budget. The Bush administration wants those rules to apply only to new spending, not tax cuts.
 Mr. Greenspan also said Congress should find ways to rein in programs or tax cuts that prove more costly than expected. 
 As he did on Tuesday, Mr. Greenspan said the economy was in a self-sustaining expansion that no longer needed the strong monetary stimulus the Fed provided with 13 interest-rate cuts dating to 2001.
 The Fed began withdrawing that stimulus last month, when it raised the overnight federal funds rate to 1.25 percent from 1 percent, the lowest since 1958. More measured increases are expected to follow.
 Other Fed officials who spoke Wednesday echoed Mr. Greenspan's tone. The Fed's vice chairman, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., said the recovery appeared ''firmly on track.'' Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank, said a recent soft patch did not reflect ''a significant change for the broad outlook.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, right, told the House Financial Services Committee yesterday that companies were behaving far differently in this recovery than in the past. Michael G. Oxley, chairman of the panel, is at the left. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); TESTIMONY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BONDS (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); BOND MARKETS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); TERRORISM (54%); SCANDALS (54%) United States Economy; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Taxation; Budgets and Budgeting; Capital Investment

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



455 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Rebels in Iraq Claim More Kidnappings
Insurgents in Iraq said they had kidnapped six more foreign hostages, all truck drivers, and threatened to behead one every 72 hours unless their employer, a Kuwaiti company, Universal Services, shut down operations. None of the countries of those kidnapped have soldiers in Iraq; instead, the target seemed to be the reconstruction effort. A1

Saudi police discovered the frozen head of Paul M. Johnson Jr., the American hostage decapitated last month. The head was found in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, during a raid of the suspected hideout of a purported leader of Al Qaeda. A8

Britain announced major cuts in its armed forces, but it will introduce more advanced technology to fight modern wars against terrorism and to deal with fast-moving crises. A10

Military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are running $12.3 billion over budget, and Pentagon officials are transferring money from other accounts and delaying refurbishment of worn-out equipment. A10

Iraq demanded that its neighbors do more to halt the infiltration of foreign fighters across its borders at a summit of foreign ministers in Cairo. An agreement was reached that interior ministers and security officials will meet in Tehran to discuss security matters in greater detail. A10

Parliament Challenges Arafat
The Palestinian parliament gave overwhelming approval to a resolution urging Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, to accept the prime minister's resignation. A5

Possible Gay Divorce in Canada
Two Toronto women who were among the first same-sex couples to marry in Canada are now seeking what could be the first Canadian same-sex divorce. A4

NATIONAL A12-19

9/11 Panel Said to Criticize Congress on Terror
The Sept. 11 commission will criticize Congress for failures in its role as watchdog of the nation's intelligence apparatus and will call for wholesale changes in the way lawmakers oversee intelligence and domestic security agencies, lawmakers and others briefed on the findings said. A1

The White House said senior officials in its counsel's office were told by the Justice Department months ago that an investigation was under way to determine if Samuel Berger, the national security adviser under President Bill Clinton, had removed classified documents about Al Qaeda. A1

Bush Outlines 2nd Term
President Bush set out the broad principles that he said would guide his domestic agenda for a second term, saying he would tackle education, health care, energy and the economy through an emphasis on limited government. A14

New Recruits Straight to Ranks
The Army is bringing more new recruits immediately into the ranks to meet recruiting goals. A1

Muslim Women Seek Inclusion
A small number of Muslim women in the United States are challenging the lack of inclusion of women in worship and communal life, in a gradual effort that has met mixed success. A1

Wildfires in California
Three wildfires have erupted in northern Los Angeles County, destroying several buildings and sending hundreds of residents scrambling for safety. A12

Guidance Sought on Sentencing
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to hear two cases on an exceptionally fast track and to explain how one of its recent decisions affects the sentencing of criminal defendants in federal courts. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Study Gives Failing Mark To New York's Legislature
A study by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law called New York's legislature the least deliberative, most dysfunctional state legislature in the nation. B1

Group Agrees to Rally Site
The group planning the largest protest during the Republican National Convention agreed to hold a giant rally along the West Side Highway, acceding to the demands of the Bloomberg administration. B3

New Study on 9/11 Deaths
Investigators with the National Institute of Standards and Technology have come up with the most comprehensive, but still not final, tally of who died where on Sept. 11, 2001. B3

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

Men Left Cold in Later Divorces
Divorces among people aged 40 to 80 were usually initiated by women and jilted spouses often did not see the split coming, according to an AARP study. F1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C13

CIRCUITS G1-8

Full Conventions on Digital TV
ABC will broadcast gavel-to-gavel coverage of the national political conventions to viewers with a digital TV and decoding equipment. G3

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Internet Phone Plan at Verizon
Verizon Communications will announce that it is introducing Internet-based phone service to customers across the nation, according to executives close to the plan. C1

Push for Insurance Inquiry
Securities regulators and lawmakers are looking into the sale of investments to military personnel that may be ill suited to the financial needs for service members. C1

Caution for Automakers
The market reacted cautiously to improved earnings reports by Ford and G.M., partly because the companies continue to have more success with their financing operations as opposed to manufacturing. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Making America safer; Congress plays the housing game; the Arafat problem.

Columns: Barbara Ehrenreich, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); ARMIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLICE FORCES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); FIRES (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); CANADA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



456 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: A New Look For Ghost Of '88 Race

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 21 

 BODY:
The last time a Massachusetts Democrat won his party's presidential nomination, his opponent, a man named Bush, sought to make political hay out of the devastated condition of Boston Harbor.
 Cruising it in an excursion boat in 1988, Vice President George Bush called the sludge-slathered waters a ''harbor of shame.'' He accused the Democratic nominee, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, of stalling the harbor's cleanup and declared that the amount of sewage dumped into the water in one year alone, 1986, could have covered ''all of metropolitan Boston up to a depth of 17 feet.'' 
 It was a potent political image, reinforced by a reality: water contaminated with feces and littered with condoms and tampon applicators, air curdled with the stench of the Deer Island waste treatment plant. The waterfront was dingy and desolate, and cordoned off with barbed wire from much of the rest of the city.
 But on Wednesday, five days before the Democratic National Convention begins here, Boston Harbor was held up as a distinctly different symbol: a spruced-up and shimmering sign of the city's progress over the last two decades.
 Against the backdrop of an expanse of water that is now clean and teeming with fish and plant life, Mayor Thomas M. Menino and leaders of an environmental group called Save the Harbor/Save the Bay stood on a sunlit wharf behind one of the city's fanciest hotels and unveiled a report detailing the extent of the Boston waterfront renaissance.
 ''The harbor really is the next area of our city that really is going to shine in the next 25 years,'' Mr. Menino said as speedboats, yachts and charter fishing craft bobbed on the water behind him.
 The timing of the event seemed a parry to the 1988 ''harbor of shame'' tour, showcasing an image of Boston that could score a few political points for Massachusetts' new presidential contender, Senator John Kerry.
 ''We thought it was a very good week to do this,'' said Patricia A. Foley, executive director of Save the Harbor/Save the Bay, who was a campaign manager for Mr. Kerry's 1990 Senate race. ''We thought there might be some value in making people aware of how bright the future of Boston is.''
 The report, prepared for the city and Ms. Foley's group by Appleseed Inc., a New York consulting firm, said the city, the state and the federal government had spent nearly $21 billion since the late 1980's on projects that galvanized the economic development of the waterfront.
 Most of those projects -- including the Big Dig, the cleanup of Boston Harbor, a new convention center and the opening of the Boston Harbor Islands National Park -- were undertaken with environmental, transportation, tourism or other goals besides development in mind. But they have helped draw developers who in the last 17 years, the report said, have built 3.2 million square feet of new office space, 2,720 housing units, more than 1,000 hotel rooms, nearly 2 million square feet of space for research, culture and entertainment, and nearly 4,000 parking spaces.
 Thousands of people have poured into the waterfront neighborhoods to live and work. The report said neighborhoods like East Boston, Charlestown, South Boston, the North End and Fort Point Channel, which together added more than 9,000 residents in the 1990's, accounted for more than 60 percent of Boston's population growth from 1990 to 2000. 
 From 1994 to 2001, those neighborhoods also added more than 52,000 jobs, accounting for 88 percent of all job growth in the city.
 What is more, the report said, development now proposed could add almost 7,000 housing units over the next two decades and more than 10 million square feet of office space.
 ''Most of that housing is in places no one's ever lived in before,'' said Paul S. Grogan, president of the Boston Foundation, which financed the study.
 The significance of the waterfront transformation has not been lost on longtime students of Boston. ''Ten years ago if you had asked me is Boston finished growing now, I probably would have said yes,'' said Thomas H. O'Connor, a historian at Boston College. Now, given the waterfront expansion, ''the future is such that at this point the horizons are unlimited,'' Professor O'Connor said.
 That is the impression that Mr. Menino and other city leaders hope to impart to the thousands of delegates -- and perhaps especially to the 10,000 members of the news media -- coming to the convention. 
 Ms. Foley said that when her organization was founded in 1986, ''the harbor was a source of embarrassment for our city.''
 Now, she said, ''I know in my heart that the future of the city is here, on the harbor we worked so hard to restore.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); SPORT FISHING (70%); FISHES (65%); NATIONAL PARKS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%) Water Pollution; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 1988; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004; Water Pollution

ORGANIZATION: Save the Harbor/save the Bay (Orgn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Pam Belluck; Michael S Dukakis; George (Former Pres) Bush; Thomas M (Mayor) Menino; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Boston Harbor

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



457 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Seeks Better Share of Black Vote

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 21 

 BODY:
Four years after black voters all but ignored George W. Bush at the ballot box, the Republican Party is still struggling to make itself more attractive to them and other minorities.
 To improve on his 8 percent support among blacks in 2000, an unusually low level for the winner in a presidential race, the party is wooing African-Americans in battleground states with new advertising campaigns, voter registration drives on college campuses, the appointment of a ''steering committee'' of prominent black leaders to promote Mr. Bush's policies and a national tour of party officials with the flamboyant boxing promoter Don King.
 Mr. Bush and his Democratic opponent, Senator John Kerry, are locked in an exceptionally tight race, and many black Republicans say that even a small increase in minority support could push the president over the top. 
 But they also say that any such minimal gains would meet only the needs of a close campaign rather than those of a larger strategy to expand the party's future base. And, they add, incidents like Mr. Bush's decision two weeks ago not to speak at the N.A.A.C.P.'s convention only make the challenge more daunting. (White House officials note that Mr. Bush does plan to address the annual meeting of the predominantly black National Urban League, a group with which he has had greater rapport, on Friday in Detroit.)
 ''I know they're doing all they can, with radio, TV and direct mail,'' said Bishop Keith A. Butler, pastor of the Word of Faith International Christian Center in Southfield, Mich., one of the 61 members of the president's steering committee, named Monday. ''But 9 of 10 African-Americans know nothing of what George Bush has done that affects their community. I'd like to see the party trumpet what he's done better.''
 Alvin Williams, president and chief executive of Black America's Political Action Committee, which supports conservative candidates, said, ''With respect to expanding the base of the Republican Party, we need a long-term strategy, not just an election-cycle strategy.''
 The party's 1996 vice-presidential nominee, former Representative Jack Kemp of New York, who remains an influential fiscal conservative, was even more critical of its efforts to expand its base among minority voters. 
 ''We've never done enough,'' Mr. Kemp said.
 ''I always thought that it's not good for America for one party to take minorities for granted and for our party to blow them off,'' he added. ''We had a great history with African-American voters, and we walked away from it.''
 Republicans are also facing a challenge in courting Hispanics, a fast-growing bloc that delivered 35 percent of its votes for Mr. Bush in 2000, compared with 62 percent for Al Gore.
 Mr. Bush remains reasonably popular in states with large Latino populations, like Arizona, Texas and Florida, where his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush, wins consistently high approval ratings from Cuban-Americans and other Hispanics. But Latino leaders say the president has largely turned his back on them, squandering good will he built as governor of Texas and as a presidential candidate by promising to improve education, health care and economic opportunities for Hispanic communities.
 Speaking last year at the annual convention of the National Council of La Raza, the group's president, Raul Yzaguirre, accused the Bush administration of ''pinata politics,'' explaining, ''They blindfold you and hope you are satisfied with a few trinkets that fall to the ground.''
 In an interview this week, Mr. Yzaguirre said, ''That situation is still very much the case,'' and predicted that Mr. Bush would be hard pressed to reach the level of Hispanic support he had four years ago.
 Maria T. Cardona, a Clinton administration official who is now director of the Hispanic Project at the New Democrat Network, said Hispanic voters were not yet familiar enough with Mr. Kerry to embrace him as they did Bill Clinton and Mr. Gore. ''But he has the upper hand,'' Ms. Cardona said of Mr. Kerry. ''He needs to do more and define himself.'' 
 Meanwhile, she said, in the last three years ''President Bush has completely lost all the ground he gained.''
 Mel Martinez, who resigned as Mr. Bush's housing secretary to run for the Senate in Florida, disagreed, arguing that the president was now doing ''incrementally better'' among Hispanic voters. 
 ''Over all, this will happen in time, not overnight,'' he said of Republicans' appeal to Latinos. ''Hispanics are very much in tune with our message.''
 Ed Gillespie, the Republican national chairman, conceded that the party had failed to energize substantial numbers of black and Latino voters despite administration policy positions that Republicans argue would benefit them and despite a belief among many African-Americans and Hispanics that Democrats take them for granted.
 Mr. Gillespie and other Republicans contend that the administration has been far better for minority voters than they might realize. Party leaders cite the appointment of blacks to prominent positions, like Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the president's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, and speak as well of Mr. Bush's support for programs popular in low-income communities, like school vouchers, as evidence of his respect for people and issues important to minorities.
 ''George Bush has a compelling story to tell about public policy initiatives geared toward the empowerment of minorities, particularly those with low and moderate incomes,'' said J. Kenneth Blackwell, Ohio secretary of state, a member of the Bush steering committee.
 But black Democrats say Mr. Bush takes positions on other issues that harm their communities, like opposition to affirmative action, lack of full financing for his No Child Left Behind educational program and his nominating candidates for the federal judiciary who the critics assert would weaken civil rights gains.
 Marc H. Morial, former Democratic mayor of New Orleans and now president of the National Urban League, said the presidential race was so close that black and Hispanic voters in Ohio, Michigan and other swing states could decide it.
 ''There's a potential to have an increased turnout,'' Mr. Morial said of black voters of both parties. ''But underneath, there is a bit of cynicism in the African-American community about whether it matters who's in charge. We want the candidates to talk about what our issues are. We want to be part of the debate.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Don King with Ed Gillespie, Republican chairman, and Sidney Charles, chairman of a Haitian-American group supporting the president. (Photo by Raul Rubiera/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); BOXING (73%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RELIGION (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2000; Minorities (US); Election Issues; Political Advertising; Registration of Voters; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush; Don King; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



458 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: To improve terrorism data, the U.S. should follow the lead of economic statistics.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
ONE thing that George W. Bush and John Kerry agree on is that national security will be a major issue in the election. 
 ''Because America has led,'' President Bush said last week, ''the forces of terror and tyranny have suffered defeat after defeat, and America and the world are safer.'' Senator Kerry vigorously challenged that claim. 
 Unfortunately, available data on the number of terrorist attacks occurring worldwide are woefully inadequate to settle this debate. To improve the credibility and accuracy of data on terrorism, the government should take a page from economic statistics, looking closely at how they are prepared and released. 
 A State Department report, ''Patterns of Global Terrorism,'' provides the most authoritative public information on terrorist activity. This year's report, released in April, was marred by serious errors, including simple mistakes in arithmetic and the wrong cutoff date for the end of the year. It had to be corrected and reissued. 
 The revised number of people killed or wounded in international terrorist attacks in 2003 was twice what was originally reported, and 56 percent greater than in 2002. The number of ''significant'' attacks reached its highest level in more than 20 years. 
 The careless errors in this year's report aside, ''the big problem with the State data,'' according to Todd Sandler, an economist at the University of Southern California who studies terrorism, ''is the political spin put on the write-up.'' 
 For example, an accompanying letter to Congress falsely boasted that ''2003 saw the lowest annual level of terrorist attacks since 1969, an indication of the great progress that has been made in fighting terrorism after the horrific events of Sept. 11, 2001.'' 
 Another problem is that critical details, including who prepares the report and decides whether an event is significant, have not been made public. What is more, nonsignificant terrorist events have been tracked less thoroughly in recent years, also rendering trends in the total number of events meaningless. 
 Economic data, although they have limitations, are held in high enough regard that they move the stock and bond markets regularly. It is hard to imagine the release of the State Department's report moving the market for terrorism insurance. 
 Yet economic statistics have not always been free of the problems that plague the State Department's data. In 1971, the Nixon administration halted the monthly unemployment briefings by the Bureau of Labor Statistics after Harold Goldstein, a staff member, described a drop in the unemployment rate as ''marginally significant,'' while the administration hailed it as ''very significant.'' 
 That July, Mr. Nixon ranted that a ''Jewish cabal'' in the bureau was tilting economic statistics against him. He is recorded on tape saying ''we have to have control of the releases'' and threatening to give Mr. Goldstein a polygraph test because the bureau said in a statement that seasonal adjustment problems might have caused a dip in unemployment. In September 1971, Mr. Goldstein and his boss were transferred. 
 The episode, the full extent of which was only partly known at the time, prompted a set of rules to protect economic statistics from politicization. For example, political appointees may not comment publicly on crucial economic statistics until an hour after they have been released; staff members of the statistical agencies are permitted to discuss technical aspects of the data during that time.
 These rules, and the evenhandedness of the civil servants who collect and summarize the data, have helped earn credibility for most economic indicators. 
 Although an internal review is pending, the State Department has been slow to act to restore credibility to its report. When Mr. Nixon canceled the unemployment briefings, Congress quickly investigated and held monthly hearings for the statistics bureau to present the figures without political spin. Three professional organizations and the General Accounting Office, now known as the Government Accountability Office, also investigated the politicization of statistics. 
 No changes in procedures to prevent a repeat of the kinds of errors in this year's terrorism report or the perennial partisanship that accompanies it have been announced. The idea of inviting an independent organization to evaluate the report's methods and procedures was shelved, although an internal review is pending. 
 In a briefing for Congressional staff members, J. Cofer Black of the State Department and John O. Brennan of the Terrorist Threat Integration Center, who accepted responsibility for the errors in the report, floated the idea of dropping the detailed chronology from next year's report. Not only would such a move violate Congress's requirement for ''a full and complete report,'' it would also be counterproductive -- more objective information on terrorist attacks is needed, not less. 
 Indeed, the errors in this year's report could not have been caught had the chronology been excluded. 
 The State Department is the only cabinet department without a statistical unit. When the Education Department releases data on student achievement, for example, it indicates the degree of uncertainty inherent in the estimates. The State Department apparently lacks this ability. 
 Measuring terrorist attacks is difficult and inherently subjective. Discerning trends and attributing them to specific policies is even more difficult.
 It is important for the State Department to establish an independent statistical bureau to ensure separation between objective reporting and political interpretation of its statistics. 
 It is hard to imagine that the State Department's review will solve these problems -- given the political and diplomatic pressures, the department's lack of statistical competence, and the defensiveness of the counterterrorism staff after its mistakes were unmasked. A better approach would be to ask a respected outside organization like the National Academy of Sciences to evaluate the procedures and make recommendations, drawing from the hard-learned lessons of economic statistics. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell with a copy of the corrected report on terrorism. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BONDS (73%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); BOND MARKETS (60%) Terrorism; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%) State Department; National Academy of Sciences

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Alan B Krueger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



459 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

DreamWorks to Sell Stock In Its Animation Business
DreamWorks SKG announced that it planned to sell as much as $650 million in stock in its animation unit and planned to use the proceeds to expand its film production schedule and improve its competitive position.
 The share sale, expected to be the biggest initial offering in the entertainment business since MGM went public seven years ago, should allow the DreamWorks founders, Steven Spielberg, David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg, above, and the original backers of DreamWorks to recoup some of their $1.1 billion investment. According to the filing, Mr. Katzenberg will be named chief executive of DreamWorks Animation. [Page C6.] 

Beer Deal Said to Be Reached
The Adolph Coors Company and Molson agreed to a $6 billion merger, executives close to the negotiations said. [C2.]

Delta Pilots Offer to Take Wage Cut
Delta Air Lines said that a new contract offer from the pilots that included wage cuts was a basis for starting formal negotiations. [C5.]

Judge Fines Tobacco Company
The judge overseeing the federal government's lawsuit against the tobacco industry levied a fine of $2.75 million against Philip Morris USA and its parent company for destroying e-mail messages. [C5.]

Newsday and Parent Company Sued
A group of 50 car dealers filed a $125 million lawsuit against Newsday and its parent, the Tribune Company, over advertising rates tied to circulation figures. [C6.]

Tech Stocks Lead Market Decline
Stocks fell, with technology shares driving the retreat. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 102.94 points, to 10,046.13. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 14.79 points, at 1,093.88. The Nasdaq composite index fell 42.70 points, to 1,874.37. [C7.]

3 Telecom Companies Show Gains
Cingular Wireless, Sprint and Nextel Communications reported an upswing in revenue in the second quarter as they continued to court new subscribers with handsets, lower prices and more free minutes. A fourth carrier, AT&T Wireless Services, continued to show signs of decline ahead of its planned merger with Cingular. [C12.]

Lucent Technologies said that it had its most profitable quarter since the end of 2000 in the three months ended June 30. [C12.]

J.P. Morgan Chase reported a second-quarter loss of $548 million, largely because of a $2.3 billion after-tax charge it is taking to add to its legal reserves. [C6.]

Schering-Plough reported its fourth consecutive quarterly loss. Merck reported earnings that were essentially flat. [C4.]

The AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, and America West Holdings posted second-quarter profits. Northwest Airlines reported a loss. [C5.]

Taco Bell's Big Break at Home Plate
From a marketing standpoint, Taco Bell was a big winner in this year's baseball All-Star Game, partly because the first inning was so long. Advertising. [C6.]

Even the Young May Need a Plan
Experts stress the importance of leadership succession plans for business owners of all ages. Small Business. [C4.]

How to Measure Terrorism Data
To improve terrorism data, the United States should follow the lead of economic statistics. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,046.13 down 102.94Nasdaq composite -- 1,874.37 down 42.7010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.47% up 0.03The euro -- $1.2241 up 0.0094The dollar -- 109.96 yen up 1.39Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Leading Indicators since December.June figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: Unch.Graph tracks Nextel's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); BASEBALL (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); ANIMATED FILMS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); LITIGATION (72%); JUDGES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (94%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (84%); AMR CORP (83%); AT&T INC (82%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (66%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (51%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (50%); TACO BELL CORP (50%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (94%); TAP (NYSE) (84%); T (NYSE) (82%); ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (74%); DAVID GEFFEN (59%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



460 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 683 words

PERSON: Anne Gorsuch Burford

HEADLINE: Anne Gorsuch Burford, 62, Reagan E.P.A. Chief, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Anne Gorsuch Burford, a Colorado conservative who was chosen by President Ronald Reagan as his top environmental regulator only to resign under Congressional fire 22 months later, died Sunday in Aurora, Colo. She was 62.
 The cause was cancer, her daughter, Stephanie Gorsuch of Denver, said.
 In appointing her administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, President Reagan made Ms. Burford a leader in his effort to bring economic discipline to environmental cleanup and to give the states greater enforcement powers on matters like clean air and water, policies she had earlier advocated on the state level. Critics contended that the policies weakened federal environmental enforcement to please polluting industries. 
 This fundamental difference in perspective reached a climax in a battle between a subcommittee of the House of Representatives, which demanded thousands of pages of documents relating to toxic waste cleanup, and Ms. Burford, who refused to hand them over. She said she would go to jail rather than surrender them to Congress.
 Eventually, the White House gave up its claim of executive privilege to keep the documents secret, and Ms. Burford resigned on March 9, 1983.
 In her tenure as the second-ranking woman in the Reagan administration, after the United Nations Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Ms. Burford showed sharp intelligence, as well as a taste for confrontation with environmental groups. 
 Environmentalists like Gaylord Nelson, chairman of the Wilderness Society, accused her of ''a wholesale dismantling'' of environmental advances, but Ms. Burford insisted that she was bringing cost-effective market forces to the regulation of pollution.
 Anne Irene McGill was born on April 21, 1942, in Casper, Wyo. Her father, a surgeon, moved the family to Denver when she was an infant. 
 She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado in two years and finished law school there at 20, then became the youngest woman admitted to the Colorado bar. She used a Fulbright scholarship to study criminal law in India.
 She worked for a bank and then as an assistant district attorney for Jefferson County, Colo., and as deputy district attorney for the City of Denver. After working at two state regulatory agencies, she became a lawyer for Mountain Bell Telephone.
 In 1976, she was elected to the first of two terms in the Colorado House of Representatives, where she was a member of a group that called itself the Crazies for its members' passionate devotion to states' rights and opposition to federal energy and environmental policies. She was named outstanding freshman legislator and worked on legislation concerning hazardous wastes and vehicle emissions.
 In 1964, she married David Gorsuch, whom she divorced in 1982. The next year, she married Robert Burford, a rancher who was then head of the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management. He died in 1993, while divorce proceedings were in progress. Ms. Burford returned to private law practice after her resignation. 
 In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her sons, J.J. Gorsuch of Denver and Neil Gorsuch of Vienna, Va.; her mother, Dorothy McGill of Denver; her sisters, Mary Edwards of Severna Park, Md., Theresa Peace of Lincoln, Neb., Dorothy McGill of El Paso, Tex., Veronica Urban of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Rosie Binger of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, Joe McGill of Plano, Tex.; and four grandchildren.
 James Watt, who became Mr. Reagan's interior secretary, and James Coors, the Colorado brewing and energy magnate, sponsored Ms. Burford for the E.P.A. post. Her confirmation was held up for months as senators debated her qualifications and questioned her agenda, but the outcome was never in serious doubt.
 When her nomination hearing was finally held on May 1, 1981, she began by speaking lyrically of her own environment.
 ''As a long-term Coloradan,'' she said, ''I come before you with a deep appreciation of the unique beauties which we enjoy in our environment -- the majesty and grandeur of the Rocky Mountains, the openness and sense of space of our eastern plains.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Burford on Capitol Hill. (Photo by Associated Press, 1983) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LAWYERS (87%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); CANCER (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (68%); FAMILY LAW (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (60%) Deaths (Obituaries)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%) Environmental Protection Agency

RONALD REAGAN (91%); RONALD L NELSON (79%) Douglas Martin; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); CASPER, WY, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (96%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



461 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: The $32 Billion With a Bonus In Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Microsoft's decision to pay a $32 billion special dividend -- by far the largest payout in corporate history -- will create an opportunity for millions of American shareholders to receive income that will be taxed at low rates. But it is also likely to provide an incentive for foreign investors to sell the stock and could create tax-oriented trading in the company's shares.
 By acting now, Microsoft is ensuring that high-income shareholders, a group that includes Bill Gates, its chairman and co-founder, will receive the $3-a-share dividend before a possible change in the tax laws that could more than double their tax bills on such a payout.
 Senator John Kerry, the presumed Democratic nominee for president, has said that if he wins he will propose changes in the tax laws that will exclude high-income investors from breaks enacted during the Bush administration.
 ''Some people say this shows Microsoft has no way to invest all that money,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of the investment firm ITG/Hoenig. ''It seems to me there has never been an easier way to hand yourself 85 percent money, and that opportunity may have about a six-month half-life.'' 
 He was alluding to the 15 percent tax rate on corporate dividends that was enacted in 2003. The previous law taxed dividends at ordinary income tax rates, which now range up to 35 percent.
 Mr. Kerry has proposed rolling back that tax change as a way to stem budget deficits while preserving tax cuts that benefit middle- and lower-income taxpayers. His proposal, said Mark Garay, director of tax policy services at Deloitte & Touche in Washington, would call for raising rates on dividends and capital gains for taxpayers with incomes of more than $200,000 a year.
 ''The prospect of Senator Kerry becoming president could be viewed by some companies as an incentive to pay out dividends this year,'' said Mr. Garay, who said he could not discuss Microsoft specifically because Deloitte audits its books.
 ''It would be even more of an incentive,'' he continued, ''for closely held companies whose owners will be directly affected'' by large dividend payments, adding that there could be a flood of such dividends declared after a Kerry victory if there appeared to be a good chance that the tax law would be changed.
 Mr. Gates said he would contribute the $3 billion he receives to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, solidifying its position as the largest charitable foundation in the world. While he will thus receive no direct benefit from the dividend, he will reap tax advantages, said Robert Willens, a tax analyst at Lehman Brothers.
 That is because his donations would offset his ordinary income, taxed at the 35 percent rate, leaving him to pay tax largely or only on the dividend income, at the 15 percent rate. There is a limit on charitable donations of 50 percent of a taxpayer's adjusted gross income, but donations beyond that can be carried over to reduce future tax bills for up to five years.
 Were the tax rate on dividends raised back to 35 percent for high-income people, a $3 billion payout to Mr. Gates would produce a tax of $1.05 billion, or $600 million more than under the current law.
 The particular dividend that Microsoft declared will create considerable uncertainty among ordinary investors because it probably -- but not certainly -- will be deemed extraordinary under American tax law.
 Extraordinary dividends are subject to special treatment, but a rise in Microsoft's current stock price of slightly less than $2 a share would keep it from being extraordinary and would provide an incentive for both American corporations and some individual investors to leap into the stock for a short-term, tax-oriented trade.
 Foreign investors, though, will have an incentive to sell the stock before the dividend is paid in November. That is because they will be subject to withholding taxes on the payout ranging up to 30 percent, although for residents of many countries with tax treaties with the United States that rate is 15 percent, the same as Americans pay.
 That may affect foreign-based hedge funds in particular, said Robert N. Gordon, president of Twenty-First Securities, a New York brokerage firm that specializes in tax-related investing. He said foreign investors would most likely sell the stock before the dividend was paid and then, if they are bullish on Microsoft, buy it back later. The price would be expected to fall by the amount of the dividend as soon as it is paid.
 Shares of Microsoft rose 54 cents yesterday, to $28.86. The magic price under the tax law will be $30.81, Mr. Gordon said. That is because dividends are considered extraordinary under the law if the total payment in any 85-day period is 10 percent or more of the value of the stock. Microsoft will also be paying a dividend of 8 cents a quarter, so the total in such a period would be $3.08.
 If Microsoft shares close at $30.81 or more on a particular day in November -- based on the day the stock begins to trade after the right to receive the dividend -- then the dividend will not be extraordinary for anyone. Otherwise, it will not be extraordinary for investors who bought it for $30.81 or more, including the commission they paid on the purchase, but it would be extraordinary for others.
 If the dividend is not extraordinary, then some investors are likely to buy the stock and sell it after the dividend is paid, expecting to have dividend income taxed at 15 percent and an offsetting short-term capital loss. That loss could be used to offset short-term gains from other investments, which would normally be taxed at rates up to 35 percent. Corporate investors, who operate under different tax rules that require them to pay a dividend tax rate of just 10.5 percent, might make the same trade.
 If the dividend is extraordinary, however, the law negates any such advantage.
 To make the trade work, individual investors would have to own the stock for at least 61 days, and corporate investors for 46 days, raising the possibility that the tax-arbitrage profits could be offset by a fall in the stock resulting from other factors. That risk could be offset in part through trades in the options market.
 Microsoft's decision to pay the special dividend is testimony to the cash-generating abilities of the company, which has a monopoly position in a product used around the world. Only 71 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which includes virtually all major American companies, have a market value as high as the amount of money that Microsoft will distribute on one day in November.
 But the payout also emphasizes that changes in the tax laws have given such dividends big tax advantages. And by choosing a payout that was close to the limit of whether it will be deemed extraordinary or not, Microsoft has underlined the convoluted and complicated nature of those tax laws.
 To an economist, it is axiomatic that investors prefer to pay less rather than more for a stock. But over the next few months, there is likely to be a set of investors prepared to leap into Microsoft stock, but only if they can pay at least $30.81 a share. And if those investors do buy, they are likely to turn into sellers as soon as they can reap the tax benefits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); DIVIDENDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAX REFORM (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Taxation

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (81%); DELOITTE LLP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); BILL GATES (79%) Floyd Norris; Bill (William H) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004



462 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL: ROUNDUP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Cubs' Maddux Gets His 298th Victory

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Efficient and economical as always, Greg Maddux mowed down the Cincinnati Reds and moved closer to one of baseball's most cherished milestones.
 Maddux needed just 92 pitches over 2 hours 15 minutes to throw a four-hit, complete game for his 298th career victory, and his Chicago Cubs teammates hit four homers in a 13-2 rout at home yesterday.
 ''Runs are a beautiful thing,'' Maddux said in his typically understated fashion.
 Maddux (9-7) pitched his second consecutive complete game and 105th of his career. It was the first time he pitched back-to-back complete games since September 2000, when he went the distance against the Diamondbacks and Marlins while with the Braves. 
 Moises Alou, like Maddux a 38-year-old, homered twice, Mark Grudzielanek had a three-run homer and Aramis Ramirez added a grand slam.
 Maddux walked none and struck out six. The only hitter to give him much trouble was Reds catcher Javier Valentin, who entered the game batting .182 but hit two bases-empty home runs.

DODGERS 4, ROCKIES 2 -- Milton Bradley hit a go-ahead homer in the eighth inning and host Los Angeles pulled off another late comeback for its 15th victory in 17 games.
 Aaron Cook pitched seven gritty innings for Colorado in a duel with Odalis Perez and handed a 2-1 lead to Tim Harikkala (4-2).
 But Adrian Beltre led off the eighth with a single, and Bradley drove an 0-1 pitch down the right-field line and into the second deck for his career-high 11th home run.

MARLINS 10, PHILLIES 8 -- Alex Gonzalez and Jeff Conine each hit three-run homers, and Mike Redmond added a bases-empty shot to lead Florida over host Philadelphia.
 Armando Benitez bailed the Marlins out of a bases-loaded jam in the eighth inning, helping Florida move within two games of the Phillies and Atlanta for the National League East lead.
 With the Phillies trailing, 10-4, Chase Utley hit a two-run, pinch-hit homer in the sixth. He added two-out, two-run double in the seventh that made it 10-8.

BRAVES 2, PIRATES 1 -- Johnny Estrada drove in the winning run with a bases-loaded sacrifice fly in the 10th inning, leading Atlanta past visiting Pittsburgh.
 The Braves rallied against Salomon Torres (6-4), who was pitching for the first time since serving a three-game suspension for throwing twice at Oakland's Damian Miller last month.

PADRES 9, GIANTS 4 -- Jay Payton hit a three-run homer in San Diego's six-run third inning and the visiting Padres ended the 12-game winning streak of San Francisco pitcher Jason Schmidt.
 Schmidt (12-3) allowed nine hits, eight runs and four walks in five and two-thirds innings. It was his first loss in 17 starts since April 21, when the Padres beat San Francisco, 11-0.

ASTROS 10, DIAMONDBACKS 3 -- Carlos Beltran drove in three runs with two homers, and Adam Everett tied his career high with four R.B.I. to power Houston past host Arizona, which lost its 11th in a row for the second time this season.

CARDINALS 4, BREWERS 0 -- Jason Marquis threw eight sharp innings, Jim Edmonds homered off Ben Sheets and host St. Louis shut out Milwaukee for the second consecutive game.

ANGELS 11, RANGERS 1 -- Bartolo Colon allowed just three singles in seven innings against Texas' powerful lineup, and visiting Anaheim beat the American League West-leading Rangers.
 Robb Quinlan had four hits for the Angels, who snapped a four-game losing streak and won for the second time in seven games. Third-place Anaheim is still five games behind Texas.

MARINERS 4, ATHLETICS 2 -- Bret Boone's two-run homer in the eighth inning lifted host Seattle to a victory over Oakland.

ROYALS 13, TIGERS 7 -- Mike Sweeney hit a grand slam and a three-run homer to lead Kansas City over host Detroit.

TWINS 7, DEVIL RAYS 5 -- Michael Cuddyer hit a tie-breaking homer in the eighth inning and Nick Punto had a grand slam, leading host Minnesota over Tampa Bay, which got a grand slam from Rocco Baldelli

WHITE SOX 3, INDIANS 0 -- Freddy Garcia pitched seven shutout innings and Chicago shut out host Cleveland for the second consecutive night.
 Garcia (8-8) improved to 4-1 since joining the White Sox, who acquired him in a trade last month with Seattle.

Three Players Suspended
 Boston Red Sox first baseman David Ortiz and Chicago Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano were suspended five games each yesterday for their recent actions in separate games.
 Another Cubs pitcher, LaTroy Hawkins, received a three-game suspension from another incident.
 All three players plan to appeal the penalties, which were set to start today. They will be able to play until hearings are held, which means that Ortiz, one of the top run producers in the American League, will not miss this weekend's series with the Yankees.
 Ortiz became upset after being called out on strikes by Umpire Matt Hollowell last Friday night at Anaheim and had to be restrained. He then threw a couple of bats onto the field that came close to hitting umpires Bill Hohn and Mark Carlson. Zambrano was penalized for intentionally hitting St. Louis's Jim Edmonds with a pitch Monday for the second time.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Maddux pitched a four-hit complete game. (Photo by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (93%); CHICAGO CUBS (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%) Chicago Cubs; Cincinnati Reds

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (70%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



463 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: In Vermont, Downhill Racers Shift Gears for Summer

BYLINE: By TATIANA BONCOMPAGNI

 BODY:
DEVERELL SMITH'S red turtleneck and nylon pants were splattered with mud and his hands were shaking from the cold, but his smile couldn't have been any wider. ''It's awesome,'' Mr. Smith, 26, a Manhattan architect, said of his first trip down Mount Snow -- on a mountain bike.
 Best known for maple syrup, scenic drives and ski areas like Mount Snow, Vermont is trying on a new identity these days: a mountain biking center that promoters like to call ''the Moab of the East'' after the Utah town that has become synonymous with the sport. With tourism the second largest contributor to the Vermont economy, and the traditional skiing season leaving resorts and inns empty half the year, everyone from the state tourism department to ski resort operators are looking for ways to draw travelers and their dollars during the summer months. And mountain biking, said Jason Aldous of the state Department of Tourism and Marketing, is a natural draw. ''We have 200 mountains with over 2,000 feet in elevation and thousands of miles of back roads,'' he said. 
 Indeed, for the last decade, the state's ski resorts have been trying to transform themselves into year-round destinations by adding high-end spas, designer golf courses and amenity-filled villages. Bob Ackland, an owner of the Sugarbush resort in Warren, said that he hoped to increase summer revenues to 40 percent of the resort's yearly total, up from 20 percent now. For many resorts, mountain biking is increasingly becoming part of the package. Many, like Bolton Valley in northern Vermont, now take bikers up the mountain on chairlifts, or like Killington, offer fancy full-suspension bikes for rent. Next on the agenda in many spots are freeriding courses.
 Freeriding is to mountain biking what snowboarding is to skiing. And just as resorts have recently boosted winter ticket sales with terrain parks that appeal to younger snowboarders and skiers, they are hoping freeriding courses filled with dirt jumps, ultra steeps and technical hazards like skinnies and teeter-totters, will draw thrill-seeking riders. At Mount Snow on a recent weekend, the ''mountain cross'' course was filled with riders in full body armor and motorcycle-style helmets throwing themselves down the mountain.
 ''It has a bit of that motocross feel that is really hot right now,'' said Jenna Prescott, director of summer operations for the mountain. She estimates that the course has boosted weekend ridership by 15 percent.
 Among those who have been drawn to the area is Erik Baker, who learned to mountain bike in Vermont in 1995 and invested $5,000 in a Seven mountain bike with a custom titanium frame. Mr. Baker, a 35-year-old Manhattan-based investment banker, annually competes in a 24-hour mountain bike race and has traveled everywhere from the real Moab to France to hone his skills. But he spends a significant portion of his training time on Vermont trails. ''The riding is first class,'' he said, ''and it is not very crowded.'' Another big plus: A summer rental can be had for a few thousand dollars since many second-home owners aren't around.
 The ski resorts aren't the only ones looking to cash in on Vermont's abundance of bike-accessible trails and natural thrills. A handful of nonprofit organizations and private landowners have been trying to draw biking enthusiasts to their tiny townships. In the north, a conservation and recreation group called the Kingdom Trails Association manages 100 miles of trails that are open to its members and to the public, with a $6 day-use fee (www.kingdomtrails.org). Farther south, the Catamount Family Center in Williston offers 20 miles of trails and both children's and adults' training camps as well as regular races. 
 Then there's Randolph, a former agricultural center where Sam Sammis, a Greenwich, Conn., real estate developer, is trying to turn the town into a biking and hiking destination. This year Mr. Sammis, with the help of a cartographer, has published a map of 250 miles of mountain biking trails and more than 500 miles of road biking in the area, hoping it will help draw tourists.
 Mr. Sammis has reason to hope. He owns not only the Three Stallion Inn in Randolph, but also an old railroad station that is being converted into a restaurant, three other buildings in the village of Randolph and another 180 acres at Exit 4 on Interstate 89 zoned for a potential office park. So far, Mr. Sammis said, his plan has been working: occupancy rates at the inn have climbed 20 percent in the last five years.
 But the push to attract mountain bikers isn't universally popular, and just as Mr. Sammis and other developers have been trying to open Vermont's trails to bikers, some people would like to see them shut down. A conservation coalition known as the Vermont Wilderness Association has been lobbying the state's Congressional delegation to designate almost 80,000 acres of Green Mountain National Forest as wilderness. That would make them off limits to all mechanized transport, including bicycles. Mollie Matteson, acting executive director of Forest Watch, one of the groups in the coalition, said that her organization was not opposed to mountain biking, but that the solitude and the more primitive forms of recreation in some sections of the Green Mountain National Forest should not be interrupted by bikes, which can speed erosion and do other damage.
 Some individual landowners are also wary of bikers. ''They don't want people tramping through their backyard,'' said Dave Rowles, an owner of Stark Mountain Bike Works in Waitsfield, who recently received approval to map trails on nearby state land. That's certainly the case with Eastman Long, who produces maple syrup on his 60-acre farm in the Mad River Valley. Mr. Long said bikers damage the roots of his maple trees as well as the piping that runs from tree to tree for sap. ''I put up signs and they tear them down,'' he said. ''I even put them up high so they can't take them down and they've taken shotguns and blasted them down.''
 Vermont's attempt to claim Moab's crown is coming just as mountain biking, which grew phenomenally during the 90's, has hit a bit of a slump. Ridership has leveled off and annual bike sales have fallen by more than half since 1995, according to the Bicycle Product Suppliers Association, an industry group. ''In 1990, not a lot of people knew what mountain biking was,'' said Pete Webber, a spokesman for the International Mountain Biking Association. ''Everyone had to go out and get new equipment. By the turn of the century that really incredible growth leveled off.'' 
 Still, Vermont's charms continue to draw riders. Last fall, Scott McDowell signed up for his second mountain bike camp at the Coyote Hill Mountain Bike Camp in Fairlee. Mr. McDowell, 39, a landscape contractor from Hillsdale, N.J., said that over the course of the three-day skills camp his group rode past a barn built in the 1700's, old maple tree sugarhouses, views of snow-capped mountains, and other sights he would never have found on his own. ''Besides,'' Mr. McDowell said, ''in New Jersey all you come up on are abandoned cars and forest rangers who tell you to get off your bike and walk.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NATURE'S VELODROME -- Mountain bikers gather, above, beneath gondolas at Killington, Vt., where trails take them into the countryside. Vermont ski areas hope to attract more such summer visitors. (Photographs by Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)Map of Vermont highlighting Killington and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAIN BIKING (91%); SKIING (91%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CYCLING (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); SNOWBOARDING (77%); GOLF (76%); TOURISM (75%); ATHLETES (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); TICKET SALES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Bicycles and Bicycling; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Tatiana S Boncompagni

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (99%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Vermont

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



464 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Drive-In Theater Tries a Comeback; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Few Hundred Adventurous Moviegoers

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: VINELAND, N.J., July 22 

 BODY:
Bob Madara remembers the last night at the old picture show not with nostalgia but with bittersweet disdain.
 He was the projectionist at the Delsea Drive-In the night of July 18, 1987. The movie was ''La Bamba,'' the story of Ritchie Valens, who died in the plane crash that also took Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper in 1959. 
 It seemed like a good booking, considering the large Hispanic population in surrounding Cumberland County. Unfortunately, Mr. Madara said, there was also a Spanish heritage festival going on, so virtually no one showed up for the movie. 
 ''AMC, which owned the place, just decided that drive-ins weren't going to be part of the future game plan,'' Mr. Madara said. ''I think they just did things like that on purpose so they could justify closing it up.''
 From that night to this, the Delsea Drive-In lay dormant, weeds growing into trees in the parking areas, random vandalism taking its toll, the ticket booth losing its roof, the concession stand partially burned. The area, too, saw a decline, with drivers on their way from the Philadelphia area to the Jersey Shore diverted away by the Route 55 bypass. But Friday night, Mr. Madara hopes a few hundred people will be adventurous. He will be back in his old place, the Delsea Drive-In projection booth, rolling a double feature, as the theater reopens with ''The Bourne Supremacy'' and ''Anchorman.'' 
 It will be the first drive-in movie showing in New Jersey -- the state that spawned the craze in the 1930's -- since the Route 35 Drive-In in Hazlet closed in 1991. ''I've moved up, from projectionist to manager,'' Mr. Madara said. He also works as a D.J. at WVLT-FM, the oldies station in town, but he's taking a leave for the summer to work at the Delsea. 
 ''The Bridgeton Drive-In closed and it became a ShopRite,'' he said. ''The Atlantic Drive-In at Tilton Road and the Parkway closed and became an Outback Steakhouse. The Circus Drive-In in Hammonton is just a bunch of trees. I want to help make this a great comeback story.'' 
 A group of Vineland businessmen bought the 17-acre property for $1.8 million last year with an Urban Enterprise Zone loan guarantee. They planned to put a skate park and restaurant on the site, with maybe more teenage-oriented entertainment later. But the family of one of the investors, Dr. John DeLeonardis, encouraged him to try to revive the drive-in.
 ''The screen was still in good shape and so everyone thought, 'Why not?''' said Bob Olivio, the broker with Venture Realty in Vineland who helped put together the deal and then decided to stay on and help with the project. ''It's a chance. But I think it's worth taking.''
 Those coming to the opening show will certainly not be seeing a finished project. John Chupashko, an excavation contractor, was digging in the old dirt driveway Thursday, making a proper path for cars to get to the projection area.
 ''The town wouldn't let us go like they used to, under the sign,'' Mr. Chupashko said, ''because it's old and who knows whether it might come down.'' 
 That sign on the Delsea Drive-In has an ''S'' missing on its south side, and the red-orange paint around it is chipping badly. Mr. Chupashko said the roof on the old ticket booth went on Wednesday night. As for the old concession stand, he said he was able to save most of it, but it couldn't be rebuilt in time. So there will be portable toilets and a food truck on opening night instead, as well as a generator instead of permanent new wiring. 
 ''It was important to us to get up and running this summer, not to wait any longer,'' Mr. Olivio said. ''But the 120-foot-wide screen is great. The sound will be good. It will be a real fun experience for everyone.''
 There is capacity for 700 cars, which will be reduced by half next year when the skate park opens up toward the road side of the theater. Instead of paying by the carload as in the old days of drive-ins, the Delsea will charge $6 for adults and $3 for children for the double feature. 
 Sally Starr, the cowgirl who was Philadelphia's most popular children's television hostess in the 1950's and 60's, is scheduled to give out autographs on opening night, and tickets will have a 1950's look, Mr. Olivio said.
 The nation's first drive-in theater was built by the Hollingshead family along the tawdry Admiral Wilson Boulevard in Pennsauken, N.J., in 1933. By 1958, there were more than 4,000 drive-ins. But television, land prices in the suburbs and, eventually, videos and multiplexes killed most of them.
 According to Jennifer Sherer, who keeps tabs on the industry through her Web site, drive-ins.com, there are now but 417 drive-ins in the United States, down from 423 in 2003. The Delsea is the only one to open this year.
 ''In the past few years, though, we are seeing some growth in the Midwest and the Carolinas into the South,'' Ms. Sherer said.
 In some cases, Ms. Sherer said, drive-ins are being paired with other entertainment venues. The owners of Wall Speedway in Wall Township, Monmouth County, for instance, are hoping they can overcome neighborhood opposition to put one up in the motor-sports track parking lot by next summer. 
 At the Delsea Drive-In, though, Mr. Madara can't wait.
 ''A month ago, I took an electrician friend of mine to the Diamond State Drive-In near Dover,'' he said, referring to an old drive-in in Delaware. ''He couldn't believe how much fun it was. Some nights they have to turn cars away. People are going to love this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the reopening of the Delsea Drive-In in Vineland, the manager, once its projectionist, will be showing a double feature. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Bob Madara splicing together ''The Bourne Supremacy'' for its showing at the drive-in tonight.
 In the state that spawned the drive-in movie craze, the Delsea Drive-In in Vineland, N.J., will bring it back tonight with a double feature. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (57%); VANDALISM (54%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Motion Pictures; Drive-in Theaters

COMPANY: OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Delsea Drive-in (Vineland, NJ)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Vineland (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



465 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Index of Leading Indicators Fell Last Month

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22 

 BODY:
A gauge of future economic activity fell last month for the first time in more than a year, according to a report released Thursday, signaling that the nation's financial recovery lost some steam.
 The Conference Board said that its composite index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.2 percent in June, to 116.2, after increases of 0.4 percent in May, 0.1 percent in April and 0.8 percent in March. Analysts had been expecting the index to remain flat in June. 
 Analysts said the decline in the index, the first since March 2003, was evidence of a rebound that had slowed rather than stalled.
 ''I guess the concern is whether this could turn into a real significant slowdown in the economy,'' said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. Mr. Sohn said, however, that he thought June was a short-lived soft patch and that, barring external shocks like a terrorist attack or a sharp rise in energy prices, July's economic data will be stronger.
 Ken Goldstein, economist for the Conference Board, said that the data showed slowing momentum for the economy in June as the real estate market cooled and retail and vehicle sales slowed.
 ''Strong economic performance in May gave way to a weaker June,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''Although the leading index declined in June, it is still about 3.4 percent higher in the second quarter than in the first.''
 The index is closely watched because it is intended to predict the economy's path in the next three to six months. 
 The Conference Board said that 5 of 10 indicators in the index decreased in June. They were: building permits, manufacturing hours, vendor performance, real money supply and interest rate spread. The positive indicators were: consumer expectations, share prices, a measure of unemployment insurance claims, manufacturers' new orders for nonmilitary capital goods, and manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials.
 Also on Thursday, the government reported that the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell slightly last week.
 The Labor Department reported that 339,000 laid-off workers filed claims at state unemployment offices for the week ended Saturday, down by 11,000 from the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 = 100.Graph tracks an index of 10 economic indicators from Jan. 2003 - June 2004.June: -0.2%May: +0.4April: +0.1(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); TERRORISM (53%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



466 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: The Struggle to Get Europeans To Do Their Duty and Spend

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany 

 BODY:
Anna Ficon spent a couple of hours on a recent Saturday afternoon dodging intermittent showers and trolling the stores on Cologne's busy Hohestrasse for a pair of summer shoes.
 There was a pair of white sandals for 50 euros, or about $60. But, even in summer sale season, they had not been marked down.
 So the 47-year-old preschool teacher did not buy them. Four years of sluggish growth and high unemployment in Germany, she said, had persuaded her to be more frugal. 
 ''I rarely buy new clothes anymore,'' she said. ''And when I do, I stay away from the latest fashion and look for things that I can wear for a few years.''
 Across Europe, many people share her apprehension. The feeling has crimped consumer spending and helped to hold down overall growth, even as figures suggest that other components of the region's economy -- notably exports -- are on the upswing.
 ''The thing that is most disturbing is that as the economy has started to pick up, you haven't had a similar pickup in demand,'' said Michael Hume, an economist at Lehman Brothers International in London.
 Marlene Kaldenbach, 52, a part-time saleswoman from Krefeld, about 30 miles north of Cologne, sees this hesitation regularly, despite longer shopping hours and other consumer incentives introduced by the German government.
 ''When people don't have the euros, they don't go shopping,'' she said.
 In the United States, and increasingly in Britain, the average shopper might pull out a Visa or MasterCard to buy the sandals. Perhaps the debt would be consolidated under a personal loan, through a mortgage -- far more widespread in Britain or America than on the Continent -- or any number of financing techniques that make it easier to spend more money than one has in the bank.
 But people like Ms. Ficon are shaped by a cultural predisposition to save, a tendency augmented in Germany by memories and stories of hyperinflation in the Weimar era between the two world wars. European savings rates are among the highest in the world.
 In the euro zone, made up of Germany and 11 other countries, annual household savings as a percentage of disposable income average about 12 percent, about double the rate in Britain and Japan; Americans save a little more than 2 percent.
 Ms. Ficon said she had never bought on credit. ''I know how much income I have, and it will be the same next month as this month,'' she said. ''If I can't afford something today, I can't see how I will later.''
 Norbert Walter, chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, said in the United States, ''the share of people prepared to take risks is higher.''
 ''There was a very specific selection of the kind of people who emigrated to America,'' Mr. Walter said. ''All the risk-takers left, and the risk-averse people have stayed.''
 Prudence arguably breeds stability. But a nation, or nations, full of hesitant spenders neither ignites economies nor spurs the pace of growth when a cyclical recovery emerges, like the one that economists forecast for Germany.
 The persistent malaise in domestic demand has been a source of concern for the governments of the euro zone, where consumer spending drives about two-thirds of economic activity. Some have come out with a variety of initiatives -- or gimmicks, in the view of critics -- to loosen consumer purse strings.
 Over opposition from German labor unions, for example, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's government pushed back the shop-closing time on Saturdays from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. In France, the finance minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, has proposed extending Sunday shopping hours and allowing individuals to deduct 150 euros in credit card payments from income taxes. Mr. Sarkozy has even urged French retailers to cut prices of brand-name products, from Coca-Cola to Danone, to try to stimulate spending.
 Yet household spending in Germany fell in May by 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the 11th consecutive month of decline. Although consumer spending in France surged in June, economists say this had more to do with aggressive discounting by retailers in the traditional twice-yearly sales than with any real changes in economic fundamentals.
 ''It doesn't matter how long the stores are open,'' the saleswoman, Ms. Kaldenbach, said.
 In Germany, the hollow echo in stores that are still largely empty despite the longer hours has tended to deaden the debate. Efforts to liberalize shopping hours even further by allowing stores to open on Sundays and public holidays were recently thwarted by the country's constitutional court.
 Mr. Walter of Deutsche Bank said consumers were suspicious of governments trying to lure shoppers to stores instead of addressing fundamental issues like long-term unemployment.
 ''When high government officials start publicly urging people to spend, people think that this means trouble,'' Mr. Walter said. ''It tends to provoke the opposite reaction.''
 Paul van den Nord, a senior economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, said while such measures might help stimulate spending at the margins, they are ''not going to profoundly change consumers' attitudes.'' 
 ''What are needed are more radical, much stronger incentives,'' he said.
 That is particularly the case in countries with lagging consumer optimism. A crucial index of German business sentiment fell for a second consecutive month in June, and consumer confidence in Italy fell in May to its lowest level in a decade. The French statistics office last month predicted that consumer spending would be up only 0.3 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier. The German government expects household consumption to rise 0.7 percent this year.
 Mr. van den Nord and other economists suggested that efforts to revive consumer spending in Europe would need to include modernizing the mortgage markets and adopting greater tax incentives for home buyers -- especially in countries like France and Germany, where mortgage interest payments are not deductible from income taxes.
 Second mortgages and home-equity loans are a common way for households in the United States and Britain to enhance short-term buying power, albeit at the expense of future disposable income. For many Americans, such loans have also become a way to sustain their lifestyles during downturns.
 ''Of course this is risky, because it can actually push up consumption beyond sustainable levels,'' said Lorenzo Codogno, co-head of economics research at Bank of America in London. ''But at the same time, it allows countries like the U.S. to obtain extra fuel for growth.''
 In much of the Continent, banking regulations make it difficult, if not impossible, for households to extract added value from a mortgage through a equity loan, economists said. Moreover, in some countries, like France, the maximum amount that a household can borrow is fixed at a third of the annual net or after-tax income.
 Many economists view the lack of flexibility as a missed opportunity. The value of home equity loans in the United States has climbed 45 percent since the end of 2000, to $713 billion in the first quarter of this year. In Britain, mortgage equity withdrawals soared fivefold in the period, to $:15.7 billion, or $29.1 billion.
 But others wonder whether Europeans would use easier credit if they had it.
 ''All in all, the general mind-set of people toward credit is very different in Europe than in the United States,'' Mr. Walter said. ''Here we have more Scots and Swabians,'' he said, referring to people from regions known for their thrift and aversion to risk. (Swabia is a region in Southwest Germany.)
 Europe's lack of a borrowing culture may hold another negative for growth: some argue that it blunts the effectiveness of interest rates as a way for the European Central Bank to influence consumer behavior. The fact that the bulk of household debt in Europe is composed of long-term mortgages, most of them at fixed interest rates and many of them difficult to refinance, compounds the problem for the bank in terms of influencing consumers.
 Finally, Mr. van den Nord said, the rigidity of Europe's labor market also plays into consumers' risk calculus. ''If someone loses their job in the U.S.,'' he said, ''the probability of that person finding a new job, even after one or two years, is way higher than in Europe. So using one's home to sustain a certain lifestyle is less risky there than it is here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Consumer spending in France rose in June, helped by summer sales like this one in Paris. Europeans, unlike Americans, tend to be savers. (Photo by Stephane De Sakutin/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EURO (89%); SAVINGS RATES (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRENDS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%) Labor; Unemployment; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Nicola Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



467 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Paris Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign to Drink Another Glass of Wine for France

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Helene Fouquet contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: PARIS, July 22 

 BODY:
If France's powerful wine lobby has its way, the liquid lunch will take on a whole new meaning. Wine will be turned into food.
 And that, the lobbyists insist, would be just the elixir the ailing French wine industry needs because food, unlike wine, can be freely promoted and advertised. 
 In a strategy report supported by 105 of France's senators and deputies and submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture over breakfast on Thursday, the lobby argued that only drastic actions like this would save the country's troubled industry, which has watched its exports sink and domestic consumption fall off the table. 
 ''Wine is a product to be consumed that is different from anything else, it's entirely part of our history, our identity, our civilization,'' said the 130-page report, which is entitled ''The White Book on French Wine-Growing: The Role and Place of Wine in Society.''
 Far from needing to be convinced, the report states, most French people it polled already consider wine a food, if it is defined as ''a substance with nutritive components absorbed by the digestive tube.''
 The term ''nutritive components'' is important, even though it does not exactly trip off the palate. If wine is defined as a ''nutrient'' it will no longer be subject to a strict 1991 law banning most advertising for alcoholic beverages on radio and television. It will also free French wine from the requirement that all printed advertising for alcoholic beverages include the warning: ''The abuse of alcohol is dangerous for your health. Consume it in moderation.''
 Among the report's other recommendations is a comprehensive education program to encourage people, particularly young people, to know about wine products and to ''educate their tastes,'' even as it warns them about the dangers of excessive consumption.
 ''Wine is not a food like any other,'' said Alain Suguenot, the head of the wine growers' study group of France's National Assembly and the Commander of the Chevaliers de Tastevin, the exclusive fraternity of Burgundy wine connoisseurs. ''It's a special food. It has nutritional value. Of course, you cannot eat it alone. It's a food you have to eat with other food. But it is a food.''
 Mr. Suguenot, who is also the deputy mayor of Beaune, deep in Burgundy country, added that the goal was to create an organization modeled on the Bush administration's Department of Homeland Security, which would educate people and combat prejudice against French wine the way the United States is trying to combat terrorism. He did not say whether France would introduce a color-coded rating system for vintages.
 Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, who commissioned the report, will recommend whether wine should be legally redefined. Spain has already done so, classifying wine as a food last year. Underscoring the complexity of the issue, Mr. Raffarin on Thursday received representatives of two organizations devoted to the prevention of alcoholism, issuing a communique afterward reaffirming the government's commitment to ''a public health policy.''
 One of them was Dr. Alain Rigaud, president of France's National Association for the Prevention of Alcoholism and Addiction, who is cited in the ''White Book'' as saying that two-thirds of people treated in France for alcohol problems are dependent on wine. He added, however, that although wine could not be considered a food, it could ''if necessary'' be considered ''a condiment.''
 Exports of French wine have declined 7 percent in value in the first half of this year compared with 2003 figures, the result of a market flooded with good-quality, often better-priced wine from other countries and a strong euro.
 Domestic consumption of wine in France, meanwhile, has plummeted from 130 bottles per person a year 40 years ago to about 75 today, as the French have become more health-conscious and laws against drinking and driving become more stringent.
 Furthermore, French producers are making too much wine.
 The Ministry of Agriculture estimates that this year's harvest will be 19 percent bigger than last year's, which suffered from a record August heat wave.
 So the price of French wine has fallen.
 The initiative to call wine a food flies in the face of a competing national cause: the determination to crack down on speeding and drunk driving.
 The campaign has involved the installation of radar speed traps across the country and the aggressive use of breathalyzer tests, which has led to a sharp decrease in deaths from car accidents -- 5,732 in 2003, compared with 7,242 in 2002.
 The goal of the official safe-driving campaign is to reduce alcohol consumption by 20 percent by 2008.
 But increasing French wine sales -- as part of helping France's troubled economy -- is also a crucial goal of the French government, and proponents of traffic safety are reluctant to be too critical.
 ''I can't really express myself, because the minister of agriculture has all the cards in his hands,'' said Remy Heitz, the coordinator of the Ministry of Transportation's road safety campaign. ''There are economic problems, job problems. You can't ignore them.''
 Advocates of reduced alcohol consumption are more outspoken in their opposition. 
 ''This is really a bad initiative that goes against the government's own policies,'' said Anne-Marie Payet, a centrist senator. ''I don't want to say bad things about the wine business, but this will certainly have a strong influence on public health. Wine will appear everywhere in the ads. People will drink more wine.''
 Both the French government and French wine producers are grasping at any initiative, it seems, to prop up the industry.
 At an emergency meeting on Wednesday of wine growers and Herve Gaymard, the minister of agriculture, an agreement was reached to erase centuries of tradition by permitting growers to label Bordeaux and Burgundy wines according to grape variety, which is considered more consumer-friendly. The move, which is already being criticized by a number of major wine growers, is seen as necessary for France to gain back part of its declining market share.
 The wine producers of Fronton near the city of Toulouse, meanwhile, have started what they call ''a crusade of common sense.'' The idea is to offer an alternative to the official French government recommendation to raise the legal limit to three glasses from two. Based on what they call an independent scientific study they sponsored, their slogan is, ''Three glasses, hello damage.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Paris Journal article on Friday about efforts by French wine growers to increase sales misstated the location of St.-Jean-d'Ardieres, the site of a wine bottling plant. It is in the Beaujolais region of Burgundy, not the Bordeaux region. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman studied a wine shop display in Paris. French vintners are seeking an end to advertising restrictions as part of an effort to build sales by convincing the nation that wine is a food with nutritional value. (Photo by Francois Mori/Associated Press)
 An employee at a bottling plant in St.-Jean-d'Ardieres in the Bordeaux region of France prepared a crate of wine for shipment to Paris. Wine growers are seeking ways to increase consumption and sales. (Photo by Fred DuFour/Agence France-Presse-- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CONSUMPTION (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); NUTRITION (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Advertising and Marketing; Lobbying and Lobbyists; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation; Alcoholic Beverages

PERSON: Elaine Sciolino; Jean-Pierre (Prime Min) Raffarin

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (78%) France; Spain

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



468 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Who's Getting the New Jobs?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A startling new study shows that all of the growth in the employed population in the United States over the past few years can be attributed to recently arrived immigrants.
 The study found that from the beginning of 2001 through the first four months of 2004, the number of new immigrants who found work in the U.S. was 2.06 million, while the number of native-born and longer-term immigrant workers declined by more than 1.3 million.
 The study, from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston, is further confirmation that despite the recovery from the recession of 2001, American families are still struggling with serious issues of joblessness and underemployment.
 The study does not mean that native-born workers and long-term immigrants are not finding jobs. The American workplace is a vast, dynamic, highly competitive arena, with endless ebbs and flows of employment. But as the study tallied the gains and losses since the end of 2000, it found that new immigrants acquired as many jobs as the other two groups lost, and then some. 
 Andrew Sum, the director of the center and lead author of the study, said he hoped his findings would spark a long-needed analysis of employment and immigration policies in the U.S. But he warned against using the statistics for immigrant-bashing.
 ''We need a serious, honest debate about where we are today with regard to labor markets,'' said Professor Sum, whose work has frequently cited the important contributions immigrants have made. The starkness of the study's findings, he said, is an indication that right now ''there is something wrong.''
 The study found that the new immigrants entering the labor force were mostly male and ''quite young,'' with more than one-fourth under the age of 25, and 70 percent under 35.
 ''Hispanics formed the dominant group of new immigrants,'' the study said, ''with migrants from Mexico and Central America playing key roles. Slightly under 56 percent of the new immigrant workers were Hispanic, nearly another one-fifth were Asian, 18 percent were white, not-Hispanic, and 5 percent were black.''
 Those most affected by the influx of new immigrant workers are young, less well-educated American workers and so-called established immigrants, those who have been in the U.S. for a number of years.
 Simply stated, there are not enough jobs being created to accommodate the wide variety of demographic groups in need of work. With that being the case, and with some employers actively recruiting new immigrants, the inevitable result has been the displacement of previously employed workers, especially in the less skilled and lower-income categories.
 College-educated middle-class workers appear to be holding their own in the current employment environment, although significant numbers are underemployed. The situation is much bleaker for high school graduates and dropouts, especially for men, both black and white, and teenagers.
 The new immigrants are not spread evenly across the U.S. The study identified 16 states that each had 50,000 or more new immigrants in the civilian labor force, ranging from slightly fewer than 55,000 in Colorado and Pennsylvania to 276,000 in Texas, and a high of 555,000 in California.
 Professor Sum said he used data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics household survey, as opposed to its payroll survey (which is preferred by many economists), because it includes a number of categories of employment -- contract workers, farm labor and others -- that attract substantial immigrant labor but are not monitored by the payroll survey.
 But even in the traditional area of manufacturing, for example, the employment of new immigrants has been significant. Referring to the period from 2000 to the fall of 2003, the study said, ''Nearly 320,000 new immigrants obtained employment in the nation's manufacturing industries at a time when total wage and salary employment in these industries declined by more than 2.7 million positions.''
 If we are going to continue to encourage immigration, it's essential that we move once again toward full employment. Let the discussions begin now on how to get there. In the absence of full employment, an ugly face-off between American workers and newly arriving immigrants will be inevitable. That is not something we want or need to see. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) Labor; Unemployment; Immigration and Refugees; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



469 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 957 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Stocks, Bonds And Now Art
 Every few years some entrepreneur with a financial background dreams of making money by investing in art. The latest is Bruce D. Taub, a collector and Wall Street veteran (with more than 20 years at Merrill Lynch) who has started Fernwood Art Investments L.L.C., based in Boston and New York. Fernwood bills itself as the ''first independent firm to develop a comprehensive suite of art-focused investment, research, advice and financial products,'' creating ''multiple opportunities for sophisticated individuals and institutional investors to participate in the art economy.''
 The company will establish a series of art funds for clients looking to diversify their existing portfolios. The funds will buy art, both privately and at auction, that their consultants think is undervalued. The funds will buy fine art in eight categories: old masters, European masters (late 18th- and early 19th-century painters), Impressionists, American masters, modern masters (the turn of the 20th century through 1945), contemporary masters (whose important works emerged from 1945 to 1969), postmodern masters (whose work flourished during the last three decades of the 20th century, including Minimalism, Pop Art and Neo-Dada) and emerging artists.
 Mr. Taub said he hoped to spend $100 million to $150 million a year in these various categories. Investors will not take works home; instead, he will be looking for museums or colleges willing to hang the art. Investors will choose how long they want to tie up their money. ''The need for diversification has never been so clear to investors coming off the variable returns in the stock market,'' he said. ''There is a wealth of data to help us do this and do it right.''
 He stressed that the company's intention is not to beat the stock market, but to give investors an alternative to stocks and bonds. He is planning to work through Wall Street firms, marketing his services to their clients. He is also going to investors directly.
 Mr. Taub said he had put a ''substantial financial commitment'' into the business, but he declined to say just how much. He said he also had ''a number of partners'' and ''soft commitments'' from individuals.
 So far, the company has eight full-time employees and a number of part-time people, many of them former auction house employees. Its president and chief operating officer is Michael J. Plummer, who headed Sotheby's marketing department. It has also hired Rachel Kaminsky, a former old masters expert at Christie's who is managing director of P.&D. Colnaghi & Company, a London gallery, and Patrick Cooney, who founded Citibank Art Advisory Service in 1979 and was head of Christie's client services before becoming a private art consultant. Both Mr. Cooney and Ms. Kaminsky will keep their current jobs.

Learning to Be Curators
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art has many objects that are rarely shown. The Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture has students eager for experience in organizing exhibitions. The two institutions have joined in an unusual collaboration that has produced ''Vasemania -- Neoclassical Form and Ornament: Selections From the Metropolitan Museum of Art.''
 The exhibition, which opened yesterday and runs through Oct. 17 at the Bard Center, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, explores the 18th-century Classical Revival through the vase motif. The show includes about 100 works, from ceramics and silver to furniture and works on paper.
 The show has been organized by Bard students working with Stefanie Walker, special exhibitions curator at Bard, and William Rieder, curator and administrator of the department of European sculpture and decorative arts at the Met. The catalog was written largely by students.
 ''Like many decorative arts departments, we can only show between 5 and 10 percent of our collection, so we're always looking for ways to get things out of storage and studied,'' said Ian Wardropper, the Met's curator in charge of European sculpture and decorative arts. ''We believe we need to be training a future generation of curators.''
 Susan Weber Soros, director of the Bard Graduate Center, called the project a teaching tool, adding, ''Young curators can only learn by working with collections.'' She said the students were able to work with curators from a cross section of departments at the Met, from decorative arts to prints, drawings and textiles.

Corcoran to Expand
 The Council of the District of Columbia voted last week to give the Corcoran Gallery of Art $40 million for a renovation and expansion.
 ''We're absolutely bursting at the seams,'' said David C. Levy, its president and director. ''This involves renovating our 107-year-old building, which has never been touched, and building a new wing designed by Frank Gehry that will double our gallery space.''
 The project will also provide space for the Corcoran's College of Art + Design. Also included in the expansion will be the creation of an art center for children ages 7 to 11. ''It will be like an art theme park,'' Mr. Levy said, ''a place for kids to go through on their own.''
 The Corcoran is planning to start construction in late spring 2006. The museum will be closed for about three years.

Getty Hires a Curator
 It has taken four years, but the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles has finally hired a curator to oversee its department of sculpture and decorative arts. After Peter Fusco retired in 2000, Scott Schaefer, the Getty's curator of paintings, was named acting curator of sculpture. This week the museum announced the appointment of Antonia Bostrom, who has been at the Detroit Institute of Arts since 1996 as its associate curator of European sculpture and decorative arts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Vase With Elephant Handles'' (1764), at the Bard Graduate Center. (Photo by Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ART DEALERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Art; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Art

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%) Fernwood Art Investments Llc; Metropolitan Museum of Art (NYC); Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts; Corcoran Gallery of Art (Washington, DC); Getty, J Paul, Museum

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Bruce D Taub; Antonia Bostrom; Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



470 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 335 words

PERSON: Richard Ney

HEADLINE: Richard Ney, Financial Adviser, Popular Author and Actor, 87

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Richard Ney, an investment adviser and best-selling author on finance whose earlier career, in films, led to a brief, stormy marriage to the screen star Greer Garson, died on Sunday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 87.
 The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Mei-Lee Ney. 
 Mr. Ney, who grew up in New York, had an economics degree from Columbia, but with few job prospects in the early 1940's, he auditioned for ''Life With Father'' on Broadway and was cast as the elder son.
 That led to Hollywood, where, with his dark good looks, he was cast as Ms. Garson's son, Vin, in the 1942 wartime drama ''Mrs. Miniver,'' for which Ms. Garson won an Oscar. A year later, he married Ms. Garson. They divorced in 1947.
 Mr. Ney went on to roles in a dozen more films and guest appearances on television through 1962. His films included ''The Late George Apley'' (1947), ''Joan of Arc'' (1948), ''The Fan'' (1949), ''Miss Italia'' (1950), ''Babes in Baghdad'' (1952) and ''Midnight Lace'' (1960).
 In 1961 he changed course and began working as an investment counselor in Beverly Hills.
 He campaigned to change the markets, which he considered cornerstones of free enterprise that were manipulated to benefit insiders and specialists rather than individual investors. In a 1965 interview with The New York Times he called the prevalent system ''incredible mechanisms for legalized larceny.''
 He added: ''The average investor in the market is a blind man crossing the street. He can't compete with professionals.''
 He laid out his views in ''The Wall Street Jungle'' (Grove, 1970). Mr. Ney contended that it had been turned down by 39 publishers. It received a cold reception on Wall Street, but was a best-seller. He followed it up with ''Making It in the Market'' (McGraw-Hill, 1975).
 He also published a biweekly newsletter, Ney Report, until 1995. Then he concentrated on his advisory and asset-management firm.
 In addition to his wife, he is survived by a stepdaughter, Marcia McMartin, of Santa Monica, Calif.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Ney in 1965. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STEPPARENTS (68%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (54%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



471 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Markets Manage to End Fall, Closing Slightly Higher

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Technology stocks rebounded yesterday after Qualcomm posted a profit and raised its forecast. But a steep drop in Caterpillar held back blue-chip shares.
 Unexpectedly weak earnings from Caterpillar and a disappointing outlook from the Internet auctioneer eBay fanned speculation that corporate profit growth might slow. 
 The Nasdaq composite index climbed 14.69 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,889.06, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.96 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,096.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 4.20 points, to 10,050.33. It briefly dipped below the 10,000 level for the first time since May 25.
 Trading was heavy with 1.67 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange and 1.9 billion shares changing hands on the Nasdaq. Investors buying battered stocks helped the Nasdaq stage an afternoon rebound.
 ''Definitely, there's a little bit of bargain hunting going on, especially within technology,'' Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States equity group at Deutsche Bank Private Banking, said. ''We've seen some of the companies within that group report better earnings, so that helps alleviate some of the concern.''
 Caterpillar, the heavy-equipment maker, said earnings were hurt by higher operating costs that offset increased volume and selling prices. It shares fell $3.35, or 4 percent, to $73.60.
 EBay disappointed investors by offering a cautious full-year earnings forecast and a view that sales of merchandise on its Web site were settling into a seasonal pattern typical of mature retailers. It erased its losses, however, and gained 79 cents, to $77.39.
 Qualcomm, the provider of wireless technology, climbed after it reported on Wednesday that profit more than doubled. Qualcomm also raised its financial forecasts. Shares of Qualcomm jumped $4.82, or 7 percent, to $72.50.
 Lam Research surged 20 percent, or $3.92, to $23.72, a day after it said that quarterly earnings more than doubled.
 Network Appliance, the data-storage equipment maker, jumped $1.67, or 10 percent, to $18.88, after it reiterated its earnings and revenue forecasts for its first quarter and full fiscal year 2005.
 McDonald's said earnings increased 25 percent on its strongest second-quarter sales growth since 1987. The company expanded successful United States menu items like salads into Europe. Shares of McDonald's slipped 9 cents, to $27.57.
 In economic news, the index of leading indicators, a closely watched gauge of future economic activity compiled by the Conference Board, fell 0.2 percent in June, confirming other signs that momentum slowed from a heady pace earlier in the year.
 The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits for the first time fell 11,000 last week, the Labor Department said. 
 Treasury prices climbed as investors grew accustomed to the idea that the Federal Reserve would keep raising interest rates at a measured but steady pace for the remainder of the year.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 10212/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.45 percent, from 4.47 percent on Wednesday. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 5/32, to 10222/32. The bond's yield dropped to 5.19 percent from 5.20 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since April.30-year: 5.48%15-year: 4.89%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FAST FOOD (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); RETAILERS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); WEB SITES (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: QUALCOMM INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (53%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



472 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: At U.N., U.S. Threatens Penalties on Sudan

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 22 

 BODY:
The United States circulated a Security Council resolution on Thursday threatening sanctions against Sudan if it does not arrest the leaders of marauding militias responsible for a wave of violence in the Darfur region.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in New York to discuss the crisis with Secretary General Kofi Annan, said, ''We have a humanitarian catastrophe on our hands, and it is the responsibility of all nations, through our collective voices at the United Nations and individually to speak to the Sudanese government in very direct terms.''
 Mr. Powell acknowledged that relief workers had gained greater access to the stricken area since he and Mr. Annan visited there this month, but he said there had been no progress on security and that aerial bombings and killings were continuing. 
 ''It will do us no good to get the humanitarian situation on the mend but to find it comes a cropper because it is not a secure area either for the people to return to their homes, for the camps to be kept safe or for the humanitarian workers to be safe,'' he said. ''And the burden for this, for providing security, rests fully on the Sudanese government.''
 The United Nations estimates that 30,000 black Africans have died and more than a million have been displaced since government-sponsored Arab militias began attacking their villages.
 The draft resolution, which the United States hopes to introduce formally next week, also urges all states to prevent arms and military equipment from getting to the fighters and calls on other nations to provide more financial aid and to reinforce human rights observers and an African Union monitoring team going into the area.
 The measure did not specify what sanctions should be applied, but it said they would become an option if the Sudanese government had not produced tangible evidence in 30 days that it was honoring its commitment to take action against the militias.
 Sudanese officials signed an agreement with Mr. Annan in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, on July 3, pledging to disarm the most notorious militia, the Janjaweed, and other fighters, protect displaced civilians, end visa and travel restrictions on relief workers and punish those responsible for atrocities.
 By proposing sanctions on the government and setting deadlines for compliance, the United States draft was stronger than one proposed last month that would have put a travel embargo on the militia fighters and denied them access to any international funds.
 Mr. Annan said the Security Council would receive reports on the situation every 30 days from Jan Pronk, the new United Nations special representative.
 Several countries have resisted the idea of sanctions against Sudan, saying that Khartoum deserves more time to show progress and that tough measures might discourage its cooperation. 
 Asked about comments earlier in the day in Paris by Sudan's foreign minister, Mustafa Osman Ismail, accusing the United States of meddling in Sudanese affairs, Mr. Powell said, ''One person's meddling is another person's attempt to save people who are in desperate trouble.''
 He added, ''We come with assistance and aid, not just pressure.''
 Mr. Powell was asked if it made sense for the Bush administration to be asking the Sudanese government to disarm the same militias it has accused the government of arming.
 ''Since they turned it on, they can turn it off,'' he said. ''If there is enough incentive for them to turn it off, we are making it clear to them that there will be consequences if it is not turned off.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); GENOCIDE (73%); BOMBINGS (69%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) United Nations

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Colin L (Sec) Powell; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (92%); FRANCE (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



473 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Budget Projections May Have Been Too Bleak

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
A week before the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is to release an early version of its budget for next year, updated information on tax subsidies it receives from New York real estate and fuel sales show that its projected deficit might not be as bad as previously thought. 
 The budget, which is to be released at the authority's monthly board meeting on Thursday, is expected to include a broad array of cuts, including reductions in service on subways, buses and commuter railroads, and could contain an increase the price of discounted MetroCards. 
 Officials have said for months that largely because of payments due on money the authority borrowed for its most recent five-year capital program and rising pension and health insurance costs, it will face deficits of $766 million in 2005 and more than $1 billion in 2006. They proposed closing next year's expected gap with $539 million in cuts and $227 million in additional revenue from increased ridership, higher fares or tolls. 
 Transportation authority officials vowed not to raise the subway base fare of $2, which went up in May 2003, but have been saying for months that raising the price of unlimited monthly or weekly MetroCards, or tinkering with the bonus-pay-per-ride cards is a distinct possibility. The unlimited- and bonus-ride cards are now used by 83 percent of riders.
 But the authority's tax receipts from real estate transactions have been much greater than expected, with the residential mortgage market booming over the past year. As of the end of June, that subsidy has brought returns of $137 million, or 63 percent, more than the authority budgeted for this year. Similarly, a subsidy drawn from taxes levied on commercial real estate sales has delivered $36 million, or 43 percent, more than expected.
 ''It's built on these historic low interest rates that we never would have forecasted or budgeted,'' Stephen Kessler, authority's chief financial officer, said yesterday, explaining that transit officials try to be conservative with estimates of subsidy income. The budget draft to be released next week will be finalized in December.
 Fuel prices have also been skyrocketing, so tax receipts on petroleum sales are up $36 million over budget as of the end of June as well. All told, the surplus for the fuel and real estate subsidies is $209 million. 
 This could spell good news for riders, if the trend continues and expenses stay down, transportation officials said. As of the end of June, combined expenses for New York City Transit, the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad were $14.6 million below budget, although rising fuel and electricity rates could cut into that, Mr. Kessler said.
 Mr. Kessler cautioned that the tax subsidies are just a fraction of the authority's annual multibillion-dollar budget, but conceded that this year's unexpected windfall would help.
 ''It's going to help lessen the severity of gap-closing measures,'' he said, declining to say by how much. 
 Transportation officials also would not say whether the windfall would affect their original plans to raise $227 million in additional revenue through an increase in MetroCard prices or other fares and tolls. Although some of the extra funds could come from attracting more riders, those increases are usually only at the margins. 
 ''When you get down to revenue improvement, it usually has to do with price,'' Mr. Kessler said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); UTILITY RATES (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CLOSINGS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



474 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: How Drought Just Might Bring Water to the Navajo

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: WHITE ROCK, N.M. 

 BODY:
Once a week, Bennie Yazzie drives half an hour over the bone-rattling dirt roads of the Navajo Nation to get drinking water. It sloshes out a long blue hose at a cost of 3 cents a gallon -- except when it doesn't. A few weeks back, the coin-fed meter was broken and no one at the little oasis of White Rock knew how to fix it. 
 ''Another 35 miles on bad road,'' Mr. Yazzie said of his journey to the next-nearest pump.
 The Navajo struggle for water on these unforgiving lands long predates the drought that has settled over the West in the last five years. On a reservation nearly five times the size of Connecticut, more than a third of the residents have no running water for themselves, their gardens or their livestock. So they go to water stations like White Rock, 50 miles from the nearest real town, to shower, wash clothes or socialize, making the best of a situation that would make most Americans shudder with its matter-of-fact adversities. 
 But in an odd and deeply paradoxical way, the drought itself -- and the fundamental ways it is making many Westerners rethink the future -- may finally bring running water to the Navajo. The tribal council could vote at any time on a settlement to end a 30-year legal standoff with New Mexico over how to divide the waters of the San Juan River, a major tributary of the Colorado River. Tribal leaders had contended that history and treaty entitled them to the entire flow of the river; the state said the tribe was overreaching. 
 A preliminary agreement reached late last year -- one of the largest Native American water deals in history, gallon for gallon -- reduces the tribe's claims and in return provides for a $600 million federal pipeline that would snake south through the reservation, with feeder systems reaching into the communities, called chapters here. The pipe would also take water to the equally thirsty city of Gallup, N.M., just outside the reservation's southeast border.
 It all sounds quite neat -- a perfect package of interlocked, coinciding interests, which is how supporters of the plan have sold it on the reservation and off. But the vote is expected to be close. Some hard-liners on the council say that the compromise is a surrender and that the Navajo should continue to push for the whole river. Promoting the proposal has also aggravated some very old, unhealed scars and brought voice to anguished questions of Navajo destiny.
 Some in the tribe say a deal that benefits Gallup is just too bitter a pill to swallow, given the long history of hostile racial relations there. Old-timers still remember the storefront signs that said ''No dogs or Indians.'' 
 What brought people together, and subsequently exposed their differences, was the dawning awareness of scarcity. When water in the San Juan was abundant, people involved in the settlement say, the murky question of who had first dibs on the river's flow was not so important. But when the river nearly dried up in 2002 -- the drought's worst year here so far -- that mind-set abruptly changed. Tribal farmers saw the intake system for their irrigation canals come perilously close to being unusable. Non-Indian farmers feared a ''call'' of water rights -- an emergency legal sorting out, in which the oldest claims gets priority. The Navajo claims, by far the oldest, might win, giving the tribe the whole river. Knowing precisely who was entitled to what suddenly looked a lot better.
 ''The settlement is essential for certainty, and the drought has created awareness of the need for certainty,'' said John R. D'Antonio, New Mexico's state engineer, who is in charge of administering water rules. ''It's forced us to go out and be more deliberate; the drought may be a blessing in disguise in that regard.''
 At the heart of the resolution, negotiators say, are interlocking trade-offs, developed so that -- at least in theory -- each private interest must support someone else's goals to have its own needs satisfied.
 For the Navajo, that means being asked to embrace the idea that the pipeline taking water to people like Mr. Yazzie would also benefit Gallup. Non-Indian farmers, who stand to have their water rights bolstered, and made far more valuable, by having the legal issues finally settled, were asked to become boosters for the Navajo cause. Gallup officials have become enthusiastic backers of Navajo water sovereignty.
 ''It's a vast sea change in thinking on both sides of the cultural divide between Indian and non-Indian,'' said Mark Edwards, a consultant to Gallup on the water settlement. ''It says that we have a common future, that we have a common direction to go in, that your doing well is important for me to do well.''
 But that has not made it easy.
 Jason John, a hydrologist in the tribe's water management branch, visited dozens of chapters to sell the plan, and he said that in general the closer a community was to Gallup, the more opposition he faced. Gallup, which has about 20,000 residents, and about equal numbers of whites and Indians, is the closest thing to a downtown across much of Navajo country, but many people Mr. John visited said they still feel stigmatized by white-owned businesses, through higher prices or poor service.
 ''Even though it would mainly benefit the Navajo tribe, there were just some people there who have had a long history with Gallup, and it's understandable,'' he said. ''All they know is what they've lived through, so it's hard for them to go and understand something I'm telling them.''
 Desperate for water, officials in Gallup have tried hard to smooth out their rough edges. Business groups have been armed with talking points to support the settlement. Other people are closely monitoring negotiations to watch for any hint of language that might offend.
 At a recent public meeting in Farmington an engineer from the Gallup water department was describing a water treatment facility proposed for the city. It would skim the water's surface for impurities, and it was called a scalping plant. Mr. Edwards, the city consultant, all but jumped from his seat.
 ''Please, please,'' he begged the engineer. ''Isn't there anything else you can call it?''
 Indian and non-Indian politicians say they also struggle with widespread disbelief that anything will really happen. Congress, in addition to the Navajo Council, must approve the plan, and even under the most optimistic timetable, the pipeline would not be completed until 2016.
 The Navajo settlement also has consequences downstream on the Colorado River at Lake Powell, the huge reservoir in Utah that has lost more than half its water since 1999. Under the water-law agreements called the Colorado Compact, all states that share water from the Colorado River and its tributaries get a precise annual allotment. The upper basin states of New Mexico, Utah, Colorado and Wyoming have never used their full shares, and that surplus -- along with two decades of wetter than normal precipitation before the drought -- is essentially what allowed Powell to be filled. The Navajo settlement, one of many pipeline projects planned around the West to tap the Colorado's flow, would gradually use up New Mexico's allotment on the San Juan, leaving only the minimum legally required amount sent downstream for use by Mexico and the lower basin states of California, Arizona and Nevada -- and none left over for Powell to store except in the wettest years.
 But the real heart of the deal is not hydrology but human nature.
 To get backing for the pipeline plan, for example, the Navajo negotiators compromised many of the tribe's old claims, which date back to 1849 and earlier. Under the agreement, the tribe would get only 55 percent of the water available for use in the San Juan -- though even that amount is immense, more water than is allotted to the entire state of Nevada from the Colorado River. In return, the tribe would get the pipeline and other benefits, including a timetable for completion of a big federal irrigation project that was authorized by Congress in 1962.
 Some holdouts on the Navajo Council say they are not sure the tribe's long-term interests are being served.
 ''There's nothing wrong with asking for the entire river,'' said Irvin M. Keeswood, who represents the Hogback chapter near Farmington. Most Hogback households already have running water. Mr. Keeswood said he was undecided about his vote. ''This is a one-time shot for us, so it has to be the best we can get,'' he said.
 Other council delegates argue that the spirit of compromise must be seized, or might be lost forever.
 ''Like any settlement, you go in with expectations and walk out with something less,'' said LoRenzo C. Bates, a delegate from Upper Fruitland who supports the plan. ''For the Navajo to give up its claim on more than 40 percent of the river, that's a considerable compromise. But the certainty is the thing; we'll have something now that we can says is ours.''
 For many non-Indians, the give-and-take has been just as difficult. One lawyer who pushed his non-Indian clients to back the settlement said that refusing to negotiate, if it led to a court-ordered settlement, could be disastrous for everyone.
 ''It was like playing Russian roulette -- the stakes were so huge,'' said Gary Risley, who practices law in Farmington. ''The Navajos might win and suck the whole thing up, or we might win and they'd have no water for anything.'' 
 Underpinning much of the story of the settlement is the question of the future.
 The growth arc of northern New Mexico and the West as a whole, demographers say, is toward an urban future, not the agriculture-based economy on which the Colorado River basin agreements were premised. That growing consensus, and its implication that cities will probably be required to buy out farmers' water rights over time, became a dynamic in the negotiations, water experts like Mr. Risley say, as non-Indian farmers sought certainty that the water they owned could eventually be sold with no legal entanglement or uncertainty about how much water belonged to the Navajo.
 Here on the reservation, by contrast, many people say that keeping young people from fleeing to the cities means doing everything possible to make life less of a hardship. Lack of water is only one of many holes in the fabric, residents say. In White Rock, telephone service, mail delivery and reliable electricity are also widely unavailable. 
 ''The older generation was stronger -- technology has made us lazy,'' said Jennifer Juan, an artist who lives four miles from the White Rock water station. Ms. Juan stopped by for a shower on a recent morning with her 8-year-old son, Teton. Showers cost $1.01 each.
 Ms. Juan said she once lived in Santa Fe, so she knows how strong the lure of town life can be and how much people take its luxuries for granted.
 ''It's amazing to think that they can just walk around the corner and take a shower,'' she said. ''How blessed they are that they can do that.''

Articles in this series are examining the effects of prolonged drought on states in the Colorado River basin.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The San Juan River, seen here as it winds past Farmington, N.M., has been a source of contention on and off the Navajo reservation for decades.
 Bennie Yazzie filling his tanks at the White Rock water station. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Map of New Mexico highlighting White Rock: A water station at White Rock draws Indians from miles around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); RIVERS (86%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); RACE & RACISM (70%); RETAILERS (67%) Water; Surveys and Series; Navajo Indians; Discrimination; Finances; Drought; Water; Treaties; Pipelines

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Colorado River; Gallup (Nm); New Mexico; San Juan River (New Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



475 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: YELLOW ROADWAY SAYS 2ND-QUARTER PROFIT INCREASED

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Yellow Roadway Corporation, the nation's biggest trucker, said yesterday that second-quarter profit rose to $46.9 million as a stronger economy bolstered sales. The company upgraded its earnings forecast for the current quarter. Net income was 97 cents a share, topping the average estimate of 91 cents in a Thomson Financial survey of analysts. Yellow Roadway said revenue climbed 15 percent, to $1.67 billion, as customers shipped more freight. Shares of Yellow Roadway, based in Overland Park, Kan., fell $1.32, to $39.79, in regular trading.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%) Company Reports ; Trucks and Trucking

COMPANY: YRC WORLDWIDE INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Yellow Roadway Corp

TICKER: YRCW (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (96%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



476 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: SAP Income Rises 14%

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
SAP, the world's largest maker of business-management software, reported that its second-quarter net income rose 14 percent as it took market share in the United States from companies including PeopleSoft and Siebel Systems. Net income increased to 249 million euros ($305 million), or 80 cents a share, from 219 million euros, or 71 cents, a year earlier, the chief financial officer, Werner Brandt, told analysts in New York. Sales rose 8.7 percent to 1.78 billion euros. SAP said its growth in the United States accelerated as it added customers like PepsiCo to its 22,600 clients, while European business was hurt by a ''more subdued economy.'' Shares of SAP fell as much as 4.99 euros, or 3.9 percent, to 123.08 euros. It closed at 123.94 euros. License revenue growth in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, SAP's biggest market, was less than some analysts had expected.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the share price of SAP since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKET SHARE (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); EURO (87%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (51%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (93%); SAP AG (91%); PEPSICO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Sap Ag

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%); SAP (NYSE) (91%); SAP (FRA) (91%); SAP (BIT) (91%); PEP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (86%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



477 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Grows

BYLINE: By Todd Zaun (NYT)

 BODY:
Japan's merchandise trade surplus grew for the 12th consecutive month in June, propelled by rising exports to Asian countries. The June surplus expanded by 36.9 percent from a year earlier, to 1.15 trillion yen ($10.5 billion) as exports rose 19.4 percent to 5.29 trillion yen and imports gained 15.3 percent to 4.14 trillion yen. Japan's trade surplus with other Asian countries jumped 65 percent for the month to 744 billion yen. The surplus with the United States rose a more modest 20 percent to 577 billion yen. Still, Japan's overall trade surplus was smaller than forecast as the gain in imports was larger than expected. Strong economic growth and a rebound in consumption are fueling demand for imports, economists said.
 Todd Zaun (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%) International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (73%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



478 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: 'Field' -- 'Science, Technology and Nature'

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:

Socrates Sculpture Park
Broadway and Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens
Through Aug. 1
 A moratorium on art exhibitions about science and nature is long overdue. Although you could do worse on a nice summer day than take a trip to Socrates, the scruffy riverside sculpture park on the east bank of the East River, ''Field: Science, Technology and Nature,'' an uneven group show, will not convince you that artists have anything very new or illuminating to say about the topic.
 The more interesting pieces don't traffic in conventional environmentalist sentiments: John Stoney's 1/10-scale model of the Old Faithful geyser, for example. In the middle of the park's central field, it is a low, circular mound that looks like cooled geothermal mud, with steam coming out of a central small hole. Periodically, a geyser of water shoots up, triggered by a hidden mechanism connected to the Internet so that it coincides with actual eruptions of the real Old Faithful. Such a cannily simulated anomaly in Long Island City is delightfully surreal.
 Ethan Long's ''DDP (Digital Dirt Processor)'' blends Minimalism and earthwork sculpture, adding a subtle cyberelectric dimension. Approaching an eight-foot cube of packed dirt, you notice that its flat surfaces are dotted by tiny fiber-optic lights glinting like stars. The conflation of the terrestrial and the astral in such an imposing object is compelling.
 ''Cool White or Daylight,'' by Pam Lins, is more about art and consumer culture. Cleverly parodying industrial park landscaping, it consists of a bed of white flowers planted to spell out ''cool white'' and a flagpole flying a flag bearing the words ''or daylight.'' The words refer to types of artificial lighting and to an essay by Dan Flavin about the origins of his light sculptures.
 More problematically complicated is Mark Dion's ''East River Biological Field Station,'' an aluminum-clad shed on a flatbed truck trailer within which the artist has installed old office furniture and environmentalists' paraphernalia to simulate a functioning research facility. The office is also supposed to be used by local high school biology students for environmental studies. This is admirable, but Mr. Dion's work, though carefully constructed, contributes little to a more imaginative understanding of science and nature.
 Too many other works are flatly illustrative: a 20-foot-tall representation of the Jolly Green Giant by Hope Ginsburg comments on agribusiness; Mitch Miller's black oil derrick constructed of wood and parts of toys criticizes the petroleum industry, as does Michael Joo's billboard-size photograph documenting his hike along the Alaskan Pipeline's entire 400-mile length.
 Lisi Raskin's chain-link fence enclosing a fake chemical spill comments on industrial pollution; Catarina Leitao's slick signs representing catalog ads for outdoor equipment are about recreational consumerism; and Patrick Armacost's stack of transparent plastic boxes containing grungy terrariums is like a children's exhibit in a natural history museum.
 In this context, Elaine Gan's scaffolding structures of bright aluminum rods connected by rubber cords built around three cherry trees has a nice formal and possibly metaphorical economy. KEN JOHNSON


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Cool White or Daylight,'' a parody by Pam Lins, at Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, Queens. (Photo by Chris Baker/Socrates Sculpture Park)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (68%); OFFICE FURNITURE (65%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (64%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (50%) Art; Reviews

PERSON: Ken Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Socrates Sculpture Park (Long Island City)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



479 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Microsoft Posts Gains In Sales and Earnings
Microsoft, the world's largest software company, reported strong quarterly gains in sales and profits, showing that it is one of the winners in the uneven recovery that the technology sector is experiencing.
 But the company issued a very cautious outlook for growth in the current year, saying it expected sales in its 2005 fiscal year to be $38.4 billion to $38.8 billion -- growth of 5 percent or less. [Page C6.]

Viacom Reports 14% Profit Gain
Viacom said its second-quarter profit rose 14 percent, fueled by the strong performance of its cable networks, which include MTV and Nickelodeon, and growth at its television business, led by CBS. Although shares of Viacom have been down sharply this year, they rose 85 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $34.45, on the strong earnings report. Viacom's stock is down 22.4 percent this year, far more than other media giants. [C4.]

Amazon.com said that it swung to a profit in the second quarter, but its shares dropped sharply after hours because the results missed analysts' expectations. [C4.]

Coca-Cola said that second-quarter earnings climbed 16 percent. [C6.]

McDonald's said that second-quarter profit climbed 25 percent. [C5.]

The American International Group reported a rise in net income of nearly 26 percent in the second quarter. [C5.]

Eli Lilly said that second-quarter net income dropped 5 percent on costs for introducing new drugs. [C5.]

Loral Creditors Approve Plan
Loral Space and Communications said that representatives of its unsecured creditors had agreed to a plan that could clear the way for the company to emerge from bankruptcy before the end of the year. [C5.]

Coors and Molson Announce Deal
Despite a threat of a last-minute counteroffer, the Adolph Coors Company and Molson announced plans to merge their family-controlled breweries [C6.]

Pentagon Action May Be Delayed
The Pentagon would be barred from taking any action to tighten its rules on the sale of insurance and other financial products on military bases until sometime next spring as a result of a rider to the defense appropriations bill that is awaiting final action in the Senate. [C5.]

Lawmaker Will Join Biotech Group
Representative James Greenwood, a Pennsylvania Republican who led Congressional inquiries into ImClone Systems and Enron, said he was retiring after six terms to head the nation's largest biotechnology trade group. [C6.]

ArvinMeritor Names a Chief
ArvinMeritor , the auto parts supplier, turned to a struggling rival for a successor to its chief executive, Larry Yost, who is retiring. Charles G. McClure, left, the president and chief executive of Federal-Mogul, will succeed Mr. Yost on Aug. 9. Federal-Mogul is in the process of emerging from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. [C2.]

Index of Leading Indicators Falls
The index of leading economic indicators fell in June after three consecutive months of gains. The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell slightly last week. [C6.]

Technology Shares Show Gains
The Nasdaq composite index climbed 14.69 points, to 1,889.06, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.96 points, to 1,096.84. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 4.20 points, to 10,050.33. [C6.]

Acquittals in German Pay Case
A landmark trial on the politically sensitive question of how much to pay corporate bosses in Germany ended with a court here acquitting the six defendants, among them the chief executive of Deutsche Bank, Josef Ackermann. [World Business, Section W.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,050.33 up 4.20Nasdaq composite -- 1,889.06 up 14.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.45% down 0.02The euro -- $1.2250 up 0.0009The dollar -- 109.76 yen down 0.20Graph tracks the share price of Viacom since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (83%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); APPROPRIATIONS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (64%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (63%); BREWERIES (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); LEGISLATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); LORAL CORP (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (51%); MERITOR INC (51%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); TAP (NYSE) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); KO (NYSE) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); LEL (LSE) (54%); LORL (NASDAQ) (54%); FDML (NASDAQ) (51%); MTOR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (51%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: CHARLES G MCCLURE JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



480 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3470 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''ANCHORMAN,'' starring Will Ferrell and Christina Applegate. Directed by Adam McKay (PG-13, 91 minutes). Neither as crazy as ''Old School'' nor as charming as ''Elf,'' this extended comedy sketch (directed by a former ''Saturday Night Live'' head writer) will nonetheless satisfy, for now, the national hunger for Mr. Ferrell's special brand of goofiness. This time he plays Ron Burgundy, a San Diego newsman whose supremacy is threatened by the arrival of a woman (Ms. Applegate) who becomes his rival, his love interest and, of course, his straight man. The movie's ideas are none too fresh -- the crazy sideburns and ugly neckties of the 1970's will yield only so much hilarity -- but there is a reasonably high quotient of funny jokes and off-the-wall, nutty gags, including a street fight among rival news teams as amusing for its movie-star cameos as for its brutal slapstick (A. O. Scott).

* ''BEFORE SUNSET,'' starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by Richard Linklater (R, 80 minutes). Nine years after they parted, in Vienna, at the end of ''Before Sunrise,'' Jesse (Mr. Hawke) and Celine (Ms. Delpy) rediscover each other in Paris, and relive their brief encounter. This time it is even briefer: the film unfolds, without skipping a minute, in the hour or so before Jesse must catch a plane home to New York, and all those minutes are filled with looping, self-conscious talk as the reunited lovers wander along the Seine. Their intimacy is tinged with nostalgic regret. The airy sense of freedom that they shared in their early 20's has given way to the resignation of adulthood, even as they meander toward a second chance. The liberating sweetness of the earlier movie has mellowed into a saltier, sadder flavor, but Mr. Linklater, one of our most literate and intelligent directors, has not talked himself out of the possibility of romance, and the movie's relaxed, discursive structure is dense with implied feeling and oblique drama (Scott).

''CATWOMAN,'' starring Halle Berry, Benjamin Bratt and Sharon Stone. Directed by Pitof (PG-13, 110 minutes). Ms. Berry, doing her utmost to persuade the Academy to take back her Oscar, plays Patience, a flighty would-be artist who is bumped off after she uncovers the nefarious corporate secrets of a cosmetics company. Brought to life by feline mouth-to-mouth, she acquires interesting cat powers and cat behaviors, and begins eating tuna straight out of the can, stealing jewels and carrying a whip. Mr. Bratt is the upright, studly cop who serves as her obligatory love interest, and Ms. Stone is her icy rival. There is a diverting element of campy, kinky sexuality in this mess, and lots of bright colors and stroboscopic editing effects. In the end, though, you might find youself thinking back fondly on ''Garfield'' (Scott).

''A CINDERELLA STORY,'' starring Hilary Duff. Directed by Mark Rosman (PG, 97 minutes). If adolescent rebellion were channeled toward a useful cause, the tweener audience for ''A Cinderella Story'' and for the recent ''Sleepover'' would march en masse to Hollywood to protest the cynicism, sloppiness and condescension of the toxic fantasies being hurled at them. Set in the San Fernando Valley, ''A Cinderella Story'' strains to bend the classic fairy tale to accommodate another coarse high school comedy of air-headed teenage vixens ganging up on a meek little angel. Samantha (the talent-challenged Ms. Duff), or ''Diner Girl,'' as she's jeeringly labeled, is a pariah because she drives a battered old car and toils like a slave in her evil stepmother's hideous pink-painted diner. That stepmother (Jennifer Coolidge), who suggests a nightmarish hybrid of Zsa Zsa Gabor and Tammy Faye Bakker, is a greasy-looking sexpot manque. The resident Prince Charming (Chad Michael Murray) is the courtly captain of the football team, student council president and closet poet, and the fairy godmother (Regina King) the salty, good-hearted African-American manager of the diner. Even for a fairy tale, ''A Cinderella Story'' fails to make sense (Stephen Holden).

''THE CLEARING,'' starring Robert Redford, Helen Mirren and Willem Dafoe (R, 91 minutes). Joining ''In the Bedroom'' and ''House of Sand and Fog'' in the new subgenre of tastefully filmed literary fiction, ''The Clearing'' is centered on the frayed but enduring marriage of Wayne and Eileen Hayes (Mr. Redford and Ms. Mirren), whose inner tensions (tastefully) explode when Wayne is kidnapped by a former employee (Mr. Dafoe) and taken on a forced march through the Smoky Mountains. Eileen and her two adult children try to cope with the crisis as best they can, but a pesky F.B.I. agent (Matt Craven) keeps stirring up the past, in the form of Wayne's adulterous relationship with another of his workers. The film is self-consciously classy, in the tidy, antiseptic way of a New Yorker short story (Dave Kehr).

''DE-LOVELY,'' starring Kevin Kline and Ashley Judd. Directed by Irwin Winkler (PG-13, 125 minutes). Unfolding as a bumpy, muddled ''This Is Your Life'' series of confusing, overcrowded tableaus, the new Cole Porter biography gives you the creepy sense of watching adult children (with the singular exception of Mr. Kline, who can surmount any disaster) dressed up in period costume at a school pageant. Although its publicity goes out of its way to pat the movie on the back for its supposed candor about Porter's homosexuality, the film's attitude toward sex is dainty. The heat in a film about the man who wrote ''Too Darn Hot'' remains a steady, air-conditioned 68 degrees. It can't imagine a wealthy, sophisticated couple marrying for friendship and social advantage without that arrangement involving torment and guilt over its lack of sex. Some two dozen Porter songs are glossed by contemporary singers like Elvis Costello (''Let's Misbehave''), Alanis Morissette (''Let's Do It, Let's Fall in Love''), Sheryl Crow (''Begin the Beguine'') and Diana Krall (''Just One of Those Things''). If they're not awful, these labored, self-conscious interpretations are undercut by flimsy period arrangements (Holden).

''DODGEBALL: A TRUE UNDERDOG STORY,'' starring Vince Vaughn and Ben Stiller. Directed and written by Rawson Marshall Thurber (PG-13, 96 minutes). Mr. Stiller returns to the comedy crime scene to portray a monstrous, pumped-up fitness guru and hilarious variation of Derek Zoolander, the airheaded male model he played with pursed-lipped, vacant-eyed perfection three years (and many dull movies) ago. His new character, White Goodman, a preening product of fanatical self-improvement, wears a blow-dried mullet and a Fu Manchu mustache and favors hideous white leisure suits. Affecting the pseudo-macho bark of a drill instructor, he suggests Anthony Robbins as a shrimpy, steroid-enhanced gym rat. White and his robotic cronies represent the Goliath that Peter La Fleur (Mr. Vaughn), the slobby, nice guy who owns a nearby low-rent gym, sets out to slay with the help of his nerdy pals who form a dodgeball team to compete for a $50,000 first prize in a Las Vegas tournament. The sports comedy is very dumb and often very funny (Holden).

* ''THE DOOR IN THE FLOOR,'' starring Jeff Bridges, Kim Basinger and Jon Foster. Written and directed by Tod Williams (R, 111 minutes). Mr. Williams, avoiding the traps of sentimentality and overdone whimsy that lie in wait for adaptors of John Irving's fiction, has made a version of ''A Widow for One Year'' that is better than the book. Mr. Foster plays Eddie, a prep school student who spends a long, eventful summer working as an assistant to Ted Cole (Mr. Bridges), a famous writer and illustrator of children's books. Ted and his wife, Marion (Ms. Basinger), are still grieving over the loss of their two sons in a car accident years before, and their marriage is falling apart. All of this might have made for maudlin, precious melodrama -- especially when Eddie and Marion begin their affair -- but rather than emphasize the plot, Mr. Williams makes it a relaxed, roomy landscape for the characters to roam around in. The cast rises above the occasional implausibility of the material, and the movie is funny, touching and understated. It is dominated by Mr. Bridges's performance, one of the finest pieces of screen acting by an American man so far this year, a heroically life-size portrait of wounded narcissism and masculine need (Scott).

* ''FAHRENHEIT 9/11,'' written and directed by Michael Moore (R, 116 minutes). Mixing sober outrage with mischievous humor and blithely trampling the boundary between documentary and demagoguery, Mr. Moore takes wholesale aim at the Bush administration, whose tenure has been distinguished, in Mr. Moore's view, by unparalleled and unmitigated arrogance, mendacity and incompetence. Of course your estimation of the movie will depend largely on whether you share his view, but this unabashedly partisan collage of interviews, archival video clips and Mr. Moore's trademark agitprop stunts is nonetheless his most disciplined and powerful film. Mr. Moore is a prodigious talker and a wily showman, but he is also a good listener, and when he visits his hometown, Flint, Mich., to speak to the mother of a marine killed in Iraq, the film achieves an eloquence that its most determined critics will have a hard time dismissing. The movie's cheap shots and inconsistencies may frustrate its admirers, but by now we should have learned to appreciate Mr. Moore for what he is. He is rarely subtle, often impolite, frequently tendentious and sometimes self-contradictory. He is also a credit to the Republic (Scott).

''I, ROBOT,'' starring Will Smith and Bridget Moynahan. Directed by Alex Proyas (PG-13, 110 minutes). Once again, machines are threatening to take over the world, and once again, they have developed feelings, which poses the usual conundrums of sci-fi philosophy. ''Suggested by'' Isaac Asimov's classic book of short stories, this sleek, hectic thriller engages some interesting ideas on its way to an overblown and incoherent ending. Mr. Smith, in weary-action movie mode, plays Del Spooner, a homicide detective in 2035 Chicago investigating the death of an old friend. Spooner is a confirmed robot-hater, and as he confronts his bigotry the movie develops a clever, if obvious, racial subtext. With the help of Susan Calvin (Ms. Moynahan), a concerned scientist, and a soulful machine, named Sonny, Spooner contends with an apparent corporate conspiracy aimed at usurping human control of everything. ''You're the dumbest smart person I've ever met,'' Spooner says to Dr. Calvin at one point, and for a dumb movie, ''I, Robot'' turns out to be pretty smart (Scott).

''KING ARTHUR,'' starring Clive Owen and Keira Knightley. Directed by Antoine Fuqua (PG-13, 130 minutes). This misty, smoky, plodding epic claims to resurrect the ''true story'' that has been buried in centuries of Arthurian legend. Arthur (Mr. Owen) is a mopey Roman officer, whose knights are a band of conscripts policing the area around Hadrian's Wall and fighting off the Woads, a band of guerrilla fighters led by Merlin. The Romans withdraw, the Saxons arrive (led by Stellan Skarsgard, hamming it up in braids), and Arthur grapples with his identity crisis and falls in love with Guinevere (Ms. Knightley), a tough Woad babe he has rescued from a Roman dungeon. The battle scenes have some impact, though not much coherence, but Mr. Fuqua gives the movie an element of brawny, B-picture camp that mitigates its ponderous dullness (Scott).

* ''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles. It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Catalina Sandino Moreno) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Moreno's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromises but never undermines her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing (Holden).

* ''METALLICA: SOME KIND OF MONSTER,'' directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky (not rated, 139 minutes). Mr. Berlinger and Mr. Sinofsky, who begin filming the mighty heavy-metal band Metallica in early 2001, turn what might have been a conventional behind-the-scenes rockumentary into a riveting, intricate pyschodrama. After nearly 20 years together, Metallica was in something of a funk, and the band members hired Phil Towle, a therapist, to help them through their artistic and interpersonal struggles. At its core, ''Some Kind of Monster'' is the portrait of a marriage: the angry, sustaining partnership between James Hetfield, the lead singer, and Lars Ulrich, the drummer, who founded the band as teenagers and must figure out how to keep it going now that they're in their 40's (Scott).

''THE NOTEBOOK,'' starring Ryan Gosling, Rachel McAdams, James Garner and Gena Rowlands. Directed by Nick Cassavetes (PG-3, 115 minutes). Young love -- the old-fashioned kind that flourished before the age of the hookup -- has always been one of the most challenging emotions to portray on the screen with any specificity. Beyond the smooches, sighs and adoring glances, how do you convey the reality of a shared, private paradise? In the strongest scenes of this screen adaptation of Nicholas Sparks's treacly best seller, Mr. Gosling and Ms. McAdams break through the barrier to evoke high-strung, slightly crazed teenagers plunging headlong into first love. Against your better judgment, you root for them to beat the odds against them. The romantic drama, which spans six decades, is told in flashback as Duke (Mr. Garner), a garrulous, ailing old codger in a comfortable nursing home, reads aloud excerpts of a love story to a woman (Ms. Rowlands) with Alzheimer's disease. As the movie seesaws between Seabrook, N.C., in the summer of 1940, when the young lovers in the story meet, and the present, it is deliberately (and annoyingly) coy as to who these oldsters might be. Gosh, could they be the same young couple, still in love, six decades later? (Holden).

''SHREK 2,'' with the voices of Mike Myers, Eddie Murphy, Cameron Diaz, Antonio Banderas and Jennifer Saunders. Directed by Andrew Adamson, Kelly Asbury and Conrad Vernon (PG, 93 minutes). This sequel revives the raucous high spirits of its predecessor, with some new characters, jokes and satiric targets to compensate for the loss of novelty. Shrek (Mr. Myers) and Fiona (Ms. Diaz), now married, travel with Donkey (Mr. Murphy) to meet Shrek's in-laws, the king and queen of Far Far Away, which is to Hollywood what Duloc was to Disney in the first ''Shrek.'' There they contend with a scheming fairy godmother (Ms. Saunders) and a swashbuckling, scene-stealing Puss in Boots (Mr. Banderas). The animation has improved, and the cross-generational appeal -- slapstick and moralizing for the kids, cheekiness and pop music for the grown-ups -- is precisely calibrated and jauntily executed. Still, the cynicism of the enterprise leaves a bit of a sour taste. The movie is too timid to risk genuine ugliness, and too crude to try for real beauty (Scott).

* ''SPIDER-MAN 2,'' starring Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, James Franco and Alfred Molina. Directed by Sam Raimi (PG-13, 110 minutes). This wonderfully vibrant entertainment -- surely one of the best comic-book movies ever -- reminds us that being a superhero is not all fun and games. The first hour is a pop art chronicle of suffering and indignity, as poor Peter Parker (Mr. Maguire) struggles with the loneliness and frustration of being an anonymous urban crime fighter. His powers are waning, he has lost the respect of the woman he loves, and even Aunt May (Rosemary Harris) seems a little disappointed in him. Meanwhile, a new supervillain, the tragic and terrifying Doc Ock (Mr. Molina), rampages through New York on mechanical arms with minds of their own. There is plenty of noise and color, and some so-so special effects, but the real thrill comes from Mr. Raimi's devotion to his hero's complex, conflicted emotional life, and to the melancholy, grown-up love story that develops between Peter and M.J. (Ms. Dunst), who comes into her own as a strong and decisive character, while still fulfilling the traditional comic-book girlfriend duties of screaming, getting kidnapped and being rescued (Scott).

* ''THE TERMINAL,'' starring Tom Hanks. Directed by Steven Spielberg (PG-13, 128 minutes). Mr. Hanks plays Viktor Navorski, a traveler from a fictitious Eastern European country who spends a year stranded in the International Arrivals terminal at Kennedy Airport. What sounds like a nightmare turns out to be a soothing comic dream, thanks to Mr. Spielberg's playful virtuosity, and also to the talents of the cinematographer, Janusz Kaminski, who infuses the neutral, unwelcoming architecture of the airport with soft, radiant light. The story is a bit soft: Viktor is befriended by a motley group of airport workers, bedeviled by a Homeland Security apparatchik (Stanley Tucci) and beguiled by an unhappy flight attendant (Catherine Zeta-Jones). There is a bit too much easy sentiment and artificial sweetness, and Ms. Zeta-Jones's character is woefully underwritten. But these flaws cannot dispel the film's deep enchantment. Mr. Hanks, like Mr. Spielberg, has nothing left to prove, and the nuances lurking in his sly, genial performance emerge only in retrospect. Similarly, the movie's deepest engagement with some of the central anxieties of modern life can be found not in its plot but in its ambience (Scott).

''TIME OF THE WOLF,'' starring Isabelle Huppert. Written and directed by Michael Haneke (Not rated, 114 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). In this minimalist disaster movie an unspecified ecological catastrophe has disrupted modern life, and some of the survivors, huddled together in a bleak corner of the French countryside, struggle to hold on to the trappings of civilization. Food and water are scarce, and so is kindness, which Mr. Haneke rations out with elegant sang-froid. The movie is rigorously harsh, and its view of human nature is as dark as the cinematography, which forces you to discern human features in twilight, deep fog and utter darkness. Ms. Huppert, who played the unhinged musician in Mr. Haneke's ''Piano Teacher,'' is a mother trying to protect her two children and her own sense of identity amid chaos and desperation. Mr. Haneke's formal control is impressive, but his steely resistance to sensationalism or sentimentality can be repellent. You may find yourself horrified and disturbed by this all-too-plausible nightmare -- and shamed by the thought that, in some parts of the world, it represents real life -- without being especially moved by it (Scott).

''WHITE CHICKS,'' starring Shawn Wayans and Marlon Wayans. Directed by Keenen Ivory Wayans (PG-13, 91 minutes). Most movies require some suspension of disbelief, but ''White Chicks,'' a comedy starring two of the Wayans brothers as African-American F.B.I. agents disguised as dippy white socialites for a weekend in the Hamptons, requires something more radical. A full frontal lobotomy might be a good place to start. The celebutantes they are impersonating, the Wilson sisters, are obviously based on Nikki and Paris Hilton, and dressed up in their white-girl drag, the Wayanses look as if they've just lumbered in from ''Dawn of the Dead.'' With rubber prosthetics making their faces all but immobile, and blue contact lenses that give them that much sought-after vacant-eyed zombie look, they are scarier than anything in ''Scary Movie'' and ''Scary Movie 2,'' the last two films in which, like this one, they starred under the direction of their elder brother (Kehr).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Will Smith as Del Spooner inspects Sonny the robot in the new sci-fi film ''I, Robot.'' (Photo by Digital Domain)
 Jeff Bridges and Kim Basinger star in ''The Door in the Floor,'' directed by Tod Williams. (Photo by Focus Features) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (69%); COSMETICS (69%); CATS (61%); TOILETRIES MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: WILL SMITH (73%); HALLE BERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



481 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 7193 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Report of the Sept. 11 Commission: 'A Unity of Purpose'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the executive summary of the final report released yesterday by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States. Subheadings are from the original. The full report is online at www.nytimes.com/washington.
 We present the narrative of this report and the recommendations that flow from it to the president of the United States, the United States Congress, and the American people for their consideration. Ten commissioners -- five Republicans and five Democrats chosen by elected leaders from our nation's capital at a time of great partisan division -- have come together to present this report without dissent. 
 We have come together with a unity of purpose because our nation demands it. Sept. 11, 2001, was a day of unprecedented shock and suffering in the history of the United States. The nation was unprepared.

A NATION TRANSFORMED
 At 8:46 on the morning of Sept. 11, 2001, the United States became a nation transformed. 
 An airliner traveling at hundreds of miles per hour and carrying some 10,000 gallons of jet fuel plowed into the north tower of the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. At 9:03, a second airliner hit the south tower. Fire and smoke billowed upward. Steel, glass, ash and bodies fell below. The twin towers, where up to 50,000 people worked each day, both collapsed less than 90 minutes later. 
 At 9:37 that same morning, a third airliner slammed into the western face of the Pentagon. At 10:03, a fourth airliner crashed in a field in southern Pennsylvania. It had been aimed at the United States Capitol or the White House, and was forced down by heroic passengers armed with the knowledge that America was under attack. 
 More than 2,600 people died at the World Trade Center; 125 died at the Pentagon; 256 died on the four planes. The death toll surpassed that at Pearl Harbor in December 1941. 
 This immeasurable pain was inflicted by 19 young Arabs acting at the behest of Islamist extremists headquartered in distant Afghanistan. Some had been in the United States for more than a year, mixing with the rest of the population. Though four had training as pilots, most were not well educated. Most spoke English poorly, some hardly at all. In groups of four or five, carrying with them only small knives, box cutters, and cans of Mace or pepper spray, they had hijacked the four planes and turned them into deadly guided missiles. 
 Why did they do this? How was the attack planned and conceived? How did the U.S. government fail to anticipate and prevent it? What can we do in the future to prevent similar acts of terrorism?

Sept. 11, 2001
 The day began with the 19 hijackers getting through a security checkpoint system that they had evidently analyzed and knew how to defeat. Their success rate in penetrating the system was 19 for 19. They took over the four flights, taking advantage of air crews and cockpits that were not prepared for the contingency of a suicide hijacking. 
 On 9/11, the defense of U.S. air space depended on close interaction between two federal agencies: the Federal Aviation Administration (F.A.A.) and North American Aerospace Defense Command (Norad). Existing protocols on 9/11 were unsuited in every respect for an attack in which hijacked planes were used as weapons. 
 What ensued was a hurried attempt to improvise a defense by civilians who had never handled a hijacked aircraft that attempted to disappear, and by a military unprepared for the transformation of commercial aircraft into weapons of mass destruction. 
 A shootdown authorization was not communicated to the Norad air defense sector until 28 minutes after United 93 had crashed in Pennsylvania. Planes were scrambled, but ineffectively, as they did not know where to go or what targets they were to intercept. And once the shootdown order was given, it was not communicated to the pilots. In short, while leaders in Washington believed that the fighters circling above them had been instructed to ''take out'' hostile aircraft, the only orders actually conveyed to the pilots were to ''ID type and tail.'' 
 Like the national defense, the emergency response on 9/11 was necessarily improvised. 
 In New York City, the Fire Department of New York, the New York Police Department, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the building employees and the occupants of the buildings did their best to cope with the effects of almost unimaginable events -- unfolding furiously over 102 minutes. Casualties were nearly 100 percent at and above the impact zones and were very high among first responders who stayed in danger as they tried to save lives. Despite weaknesses in preparations for disaster, failure to achieve unified incident command, and inadequate communications among responding agencies, all but approximately one hundred of the thousands of civilians who worked below the impact zone escaped, often with help from the emergency responders. 
 At the Pentagon, while there were also problems of command and control, the emergency response was generally effective. The Incident Command System, a formalized management structure for emergency response in place in the National Capital Region, overcame the inherent complications of a response across local, state, and federal jurisdictions.

Operational Opportunities
 We write with the benefit and handicap of hindsight. We are mindful of the danger of being unjust to men and women who made choices in conditions of uncertainty and in circumstances over which they often had little control. 
 Nonetheless, there were specific points of vulnerability in the plot and opportunities to disrupt it. Operational failures -- opportunities that were not or could not be exploited by the organizations and systems of that time -- included:
 Not watch-listing future hijackers Hazmi and Mihdhar, not trailing them after they traveled to Bangkok, and not informing the F.B.I. about one future hijacker's U.S. visa or his companion's travel to the United States;
 Not sharing information linking individuals in the Cole attack to Mihdhar;
 Not taking adequate steps in time to find Mihdhar or Hazmi in the United States;
 Not linking the arrest of Zacarias Moussaoui, described as interested in flight training for the purpose of using an airplane in a terrorist act, to the heightened indications of attack;
 Not discovering false statements on visa applications;
 Not recognizing passports manipulated in a fraudulent manner;
 Not expanding no-fly lists to include names from terrorist watch lists;
 Not searching airline passengers identified by the computer-based Capps [Computer Assisted Passenger Prescreening System] screening system; and
 Not hardening aircraft cockpit doors or taking other measures to prepare for the possibility of suicide hijackings.

GENERAL FINDINGS
 Since the plotters were flexible and resourceful, we cannot know whether any single step or series of steps would have defeated them. What we can say with confidence is that none of the measures adopted by the U.S. government from 1998 to 2001 disturbed or even delayed the progress of the Al Qaeda plot. Across the government, there were failures of imagination, policy, capabilities and management.

Imagination
 The most important failure was one of imagination. We do not believe leaders understood the gravity of the threat. The terrorist danger from Bin Ladin and Al Qaeda was not a major topic for policy debate among the public, the media, or in the Congress. Indeed, it barely came up during the 2000 presidential campaign. 
 Al Qaeda's new brand of terrorism presented challenges to U.S. governmental institutions that they were not well designed to meet. Though top officials all told us that they understood the danger, we believe there was uncertainty among them as to whether this was just a new and especially venomous version of the ordinary terrorist threat the United States had lived with for decades, or it was indeed radically new, posing a threat beyond any yet experienced. 
 As late as Sept. 4, 2001, Richard Clarke, the White House staffer long responsible for counterterrorism policy coordination, asserted that the government had not yet made up its mind how to answer the question: ''Is al Qida a big deal?'' 
 A week later came the answer.

Policy
 Terrorism was not the overriding national security concern for the U.S. government under either the Clinton or the pre-9/11 Bush administration. 
 The policy challenges were linked to this failure of imagination. Officials in both the Clinton and Bush administrations regarded a full U.S. invasion of Afghanistan as practically inconceivable before 9/11.

Capabilities
 Before 9/11, the United States tried to solve the Al Qaeda problem with the capabilities it had used in the last stages of the Cold War and its immediate aftermath. These capabilities were insufficient. Little was done to expand or reform them. 
 The C.I.A. had minimal capacity to conduct paramilitary operations with its own personnel, and it did not seek a large-scale expansion of these capabilities before 9/11. The C.I.A. also needed to improve its capability to collect intelligence from human agents. 
 At no point before 9/11 was the Department of Defense fully engaged in the mission of countering Al Qaeda, even though this was perhaps the most dangerous foreign enemy threatening the United States. 
 America's homeland defenders faced outward. Norad itself was barely able to retain any alert bases at all. Its planning scenarios occasionally considered the danger of hijacked aircraft being guided to American targets, but only aircraft that were coming from overseas. 
 The most serious weaknesses in agency capabilities were in the domestic arena. The F.B.I. did not have the capability to link the collective knowledge of agents in the field to national priorities. Other domestic agencies deferred to the F.B.I. 
 F.A.A. capabilities were weak. Any serious examination of the possibility of a suicide hijacking could have suggested changes to fix glaring vulnerabilities -- expanding no-fly lists, searching passengers identified by the Capps screening system, deploying federal air marshals domestically, hardening cockpit doors, alerting air crews to a different kind of hijacking possibility than they had been trained to expect. Yet the F.A.A. did not adjust either its own training or training with Norad to take account of threats other than those experienced in the past.

Management
 The missed opportunities to thwart the 9/11 plot were also symptoms of a broader inability to adapt the way government manages problems to the new challenges of the twenty-first century. Action officers should have been able to draw on all available knowledge about Al Qaeda in the government. Management should have ensured that information was shared and duties were clearly assigned across agencies, and across the foreign-domestic divide. 
 There were also broader management issues with respect to how top leaders set priorities and allocated resources. For instance, on Dec. 4, 1998, D.C.I. [Director of Central Intelligence] Tenet issued a directive to several C.I.A. officials and the DDCI [Deputy Director of Central Intelligence] for Community Management, stating: 'We are at war. I want no resources or people spared in this effort, either inside C.I.A. or the community.'' The memorandum had little overall effect on mobilizing the C.I.A. or the intelligence community. This episode indicates the limitations of the D.C.I.'s authority over the direction of the intelligence community, including agencies within the Department of Defense. 
 The U.S. government did not find a way of pooling intelligence and using it to guide the planning and assignment of responsibilities for joint operations involving entities as disparate as the C.I.A., the F.B.I., the State Department, the military and the agencies involved in homeland security.

SPECIFIC FINDINGS

Unsuccessful Diplomacy
 Beginning in February 1997, and through Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S. government tried to use diplomatic pressure to persuade the Taliban regime in Afghanistan to stop being a sanctuary for Al Qaeda, and to expel Bin Ladin to a country where he could face justice. These efforts included warnings and sanctions, but they all failed. 
 The U.S. government also pressed two successive Pakistani governments to demand that the Taliban cease providing a sanctuary for Bin Ladin and his organization and, failing that, to cut off their support for the Taliban. Before 9/11, the United States could not find a mix of incentives and pressure that would persuade Pakistan to reconsider its fundamental relationship with the Taliban. 
 From 1999 through early 2001, the United States pressed the United Arab Emirates, one of the Taliban's only travel and financial outlets to the outside world, to break off ties and enforce sanctions, especially those related to air travel to Afghanistan. These efforts achieved little before 9/11. 
 Saudi Arabia has been a problematic ally in combating Islamic extremism. Before 9/11, the Saudi and U.S. governments did not fully share intelligence information or develop an adequate joint effort to track and disrupt the finances of the Al Qaeda organization. On the other hand, government officials of Saudi Arabia at the highest levels worked closely with top U.S. officials in major initiatives to solve the Bin Ladin problem with diplomacy.

Lack of Military Options
 In response to the request of policymakers, the military prepared an array of limited strike options for attacking Bin Ladin and his organization from May 1998 onward. When they briefed policymakers, the military presented both the pros and cons of those strike options and the associated risks. Policymakers expressed frustration with the range of options presented. 
 Following the Aug. 20, 1998, missile strikes on Al Qaeda targets in Afghanistan and Sudan, both senior military officials and policymakers placed great emphasis on actionable intelligence as the key factor in recommending or deciding to launch military action against Bin Ladin and his organization. They did not want to risk significant collateral damage, and they did not want to miss Bin Ladin and thus make the United States look weak while making Bin Ladin look strong. On three specific occasions in 1998-1999, intelligence was deemed credible enough to warrant planning for possible strikes to kill Bin Ladin. But in each case the strikes did not go forward, because senior policymakers did not regard the intelligence as sufficiently actionable to offset their assessment of the risks. 
 The director of central intelligence, policymakers, and military officials expressed frustration with the lack of actionable intelligence. Some officials inside the Pentagon, including those in the special forces and the counterterrorism policy office, also expressed frustration with the lack of military action. The Bush administration began to develop new policies toward Al Qaeda in 2001, but military plans did not change until after 9/11.

Problems Within The Intelligence Community
 The intelligence community struggled throughout the 1990's and up to 9/11 to collect intelligence on and analyze the phenomenon of transnational terrorism. The combination of an overwhelming number of priorities, flat budgets, an outmoded structure and bureaucratic rivalries resulted in an insufficient response to this new challenge.
 Many dedicated officers worked day and night for years to piece together the growing body of evidence on Al Qaeda and to understand the threats. Yet, while there were many reports on Bin Laden and his growing Al Qaeda organization, there was no comprehensive review of what the intelligence community knew and what it did not know, and what that meant. There was no National Intelligence Estimate on terrorism between 1995 and 9/11. 
 Before 9/11, no agency did more to attack Al Qaeda than the C.I.A. But there were limits to what the C.I.A. was able to achieve by disrupting terrorist activities abroad and by using proxies to try to capture Bin Ladin and his lieutenants in Afghanistan. C.I.A. officers were aware of those limitations. 
 To put it simply, covert action was not a silver bullet. It was important to engage proxies in Afghanistan and to build various capabilities so that if an opportunity presented itself, the C.I.A. could act on it. But for more than three years, through both the late Clinton and early Bush administrations, the C.I.A. relied on proxy forces, and there was growing frustration within the C.I.A.'s Counterterrorist Center and in the National Security Council staff with the lack of results. The development of the Predator and the push to aid the Northern Alliance were products of this frustration.

Problems in the F.B.I.
 From the time of the first World Trade Center attack in 1993, F.B.I. and Department of Justice leadership in Washington and New York became increasingly concerned about the terrorist threat from Islamist extremists to U.S. interests, both at home and abroad. Throughout the 1990's, the F.B.I.'s counterterrorism efforts against international terrorist organizations included both intelligence and criminal investigations. The F.B.I.'s approach to investigations was case-specific, decentralized and geared toward prosecution. Significant FBI resources were devoted to after-the-fact investigations of major terrorist attacks, resulting in several prosecutions. 
 The F.B.I. attempted several reform efforts aimed at strengthening its ability to prevent such attacks, but these reform efforts failed to implement organization-wide institutional change. On Sept. 11, 2001, the F.B.I. was limited in several areas critical to an effective preventive counterterrorism strategy. Those working counterterrorism matters did so despite limited intelligence collection and strategic analysis capabilities, a limited capacity to share information both internally and externally, insufficient training, perceived legal barriers to sharing information, and inadequate resources.

Permeable Borders And Immigration Controls
 There were opportunities for intelligence and law enforcement to exploit Al Qaeda's travel vulnerabilities. Considered collectively, the 9/11 hijackers:
 Included known Al Qaeda operatives who could have been watch-listed;
 Presented passports manipulated in a fraudulent manner;
 Presented passports with suspicious indicators of extremism;
 Made detectable false statements on visa applications;
 Made false statements to border officials to gain entry into the United States; and
 Violated immigration laws while in the United States. 
 Neither the State Department's consular officers nor the Immigration and Naturalization Service's inspectors and agents were ever considered full partners in a national counterterrorism effort. Protecting borders was not a national security issue before 9/11.

Permeable Aviation Security
 Hijackers studied publicly available materials on the aviation security system and used items that had less metal content than a handgun and were most likely permissible. Though two of the hijackers were on the U.S. Tipoff terrorist watch list, the F.A.A. did not use Tipoff data. The hijackers had to beat only one layer of security -- the security checkpoint process. Even though several hijackers were selected for extra screening by the Capps system, this led only to greater scrutiny of their checked baggage. Once on board, the hijackers were faced with aircraft personnel who were trained to be nonconfrontational in the event of a hijacking.

Financing
 The 9/11 attacks cost somewhere between $400,000 and $500,000 to execute. The operatives spent more than $270,000 in the United States. Additional expenses included travel to obtain passports and visas, travel to the United States, expenses incurred by the plot leader and facilitators outside the United States and expenses incurred by the people selected to be hijackers who ultimately did not participate. 
 The conspiracy made extensive use of banks in the United States. The hijackers opened accounts in their own names, using passports and other identification documents. Their transactions were unremarkable and essentially invisible amid the billions of dollars flowing around the world every day. 
 To date, we have not been able to determine the origin of the money used for the 9/11 attacks. Al Qaeda had many sources of funding and a pre-9/11 annual budget estimated at $30 million. If a particular source of funds had dried up, Al Qaeda could easily have found enough money elsewhere to fund the attack.

An Improvised Homeland Defense
 The civilian and military defenders of the nation's airspace -- F.A.A. and Norad -- were unprepared for the attacks launched against them. Given that lack of preparedness, they attempted and failed to improvise an effective homeland defense against an unprecedented challenge. 
 The events of that morning do not reflect discredit on operational personnel. Norad's Northeast Air Defense Sector personnel reached out for information and made the best judgments they could based on the information they received. Individual F.A.A. controllers, facility managers, and command center managers were creative and agile in recommending a nationwide alert, ground-stopping local traffic, ordering all aircraft nationwide to land, and executing that unprecedented order flawlessly. 
 At more senior levels, communication was poor. Senior military and F.A.A. leaders had no effective communication with each other. The chain of command did not function well. The president could not reach some senior officials. The secretary of defense did not enter the chain of command until the morning's key events were over. Air National Guard units with different rules of engagement were scrambled without the knowledge of the president, Norad, or the National Military Command Center.

Emergency Response
 The civilians, firefighters, police officers, emergency medical technicians, and emergency management professionals exhibited steady determination and resolve under horrifying, overwhelming conditions on 9/11. Their actions saved lives and inspired a nation. 
 Effective decision-making in New York was hampered by problems in command and control and in internal communications. Within the Fire Department of New York, this was true for several reasons: the magnitude of the incident was unforeseen; commanders had difficulty communicating with their units; more units were actually dispatched than were ordered by the chiefs; some units self-dispatched; and once units arrived at the World Trade Center, they were neither comprehensively accounted for, nor coordinated. The Port Authority's response was hampered by the lack both of standard operating procedures and of radios capable of enabling multiple commands to respond to an incident in unified fashion. The New York Police Department, because of its history of mobilizing thousands of officers for major events requiring crowd control, had a technical radio capability and protocols more easily adapted to an incident of the magnitude of 9/11.

Congress
 The Congress, like the executive branch, responded slowly to the rise of transnational terrorism as a threat to national security. The legislative branch adjusted little and did not restructure itself to address changing threats. Its attention to terrorism was episodic and splintered across several committees. The Congress gave little guidance to executive branch agencies on terrorism, did not reform them in any significant way to meet the threat, and did not systematically perform robust oversight to identify, address, and attempt to resolve the many problems in national security and domestic agencies that became apparent in the aftermath of 9/11. 
 So long as oversight is undermined by current Congressional rules and resolutions, we believe the American people will not get the security they want and need. The United States needs a strong, stable, and capable Congressional committee structure to give America's national intelligence agencies oversight, support, and leadership.

Are We Safer?
 Since 9/11, the United States and its allies have killed or captured a majority of Al Qaeda's leadership; toppled the Taliban, which gave Al Qaeda sanctuary in Afghanistan; and severely damaged the organization. Yet terrorist attacks continue. Even as we have thwarted attacks, nearly everyone expects they will come. How can this be? 
 The problem is that Al Qaeda represents an ideological movement, not a finite group of people. It initiates and inspires, even if it no longer directs. In this way it has transformed itself into a decentralized force. Bin Ladin may be limited in his ability to organize major attacks from his hideouts. Yet killing or capturing him, while extremely important, would not end terror. His message of inspiration to a new generation of terrorists would continue. 
 Because of offensive actions against Al Qaeda since 9/11, and defensive actions to improve homeland security, we believe we are safer today. But we are not safe. We therefore make the following recommendations that we believe can make America safer and more secure.

RECOMMENDATIONS
 Three years after 9/11, the national debate continues about how to protect our nation in this new era. We divide our recommendations into two basic parts: what to do, and how to do it.

WHAT TO DO? A GLOBAL STRATEGY
 The enemy is not just ''terrorism.'' It is the threat posed specifically by Islamist terrorism, by Bin Ladin and others who draw on a long tradition of extreme intolerance within a minority strain of Islam that does not distinguish politics from religion, and distorts both. 
 The enemy is not Islam, the great world faith, but a perversion of Islam. The enemy goes beyond Al Qaeda to include the radical ideological movement, inspired in part by Al Qaeda, that has spawned other terrorist groups and violence. Thus our strategy must match our means to two ends: dismantling the Al Qaeda network and, in the long term, prevailing over the ideology that contributes to Islamist terrorism. 
 The first phase of our post-9/11 efforts rightly included military action to topple the Taliban and pursue Al Qaeda. This work continues. But long-term success demands the use of all elements of national power: diplomacy, intelligence, covert action, law enforcement, economic policy, foreign aid, public diplomacy, and homeland defense. If we favor one tool while neglecting others, we leave ourselves vulnerable and weaken our national effort. 
 What should Americans expect from their government? The goal seems unlimited: Defeat terrorism anywhere in the world. But Americans have also been told to expect the worst: An attack is probably coming; it may be more devastating still. 
 Vague goals match an amorphous picture of the enemy. Al Qaeda and other groups are popularly described as being all over the world, adaptable, resilient, needing little higher-level organization, and capable of anything. It is an image of an omnipotent hydra of destruction. That image lowers expectations of government effectiveness. 
 It lowers them too far. Our report shows a determined and capable group of plotters. Yet the group was fragile and occasionally left vulnerable by the marginal, unstable people often attracted to such causes. The enemy made mistakes. The U.S. government was not able to capitalize on them. 
 No president can promise that a catastrophic attack like that of 9/11 will not happen again. But the American people are entitled to expect that officials will have realistic objectives, clear guidance, and effective organization. They are entitled to see standards for performance so they can judge, with the help of their elected representatives, whether the objectives are being met. 
 We propose a strategy with three dimensions: (1) attack terrorists and their organizations, (2) prevent the continued growth of Islamist terrorism, and (3) protect against and prepare for terrorist attacks.

Attack Terrorists And Their Organizations
 Root out sanctuaries. The U.S. government should identify and prioritize actual or potential terrorist sanctuaries and have realistic country or regional strategies for each, utilizing every element of national power and reaching out to countries that can help us. 
 Strengthen longterm U.S. and international commitments to the future of Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
 Confront problems with Saudi Arabia in the open and build a relationship beyond oil, a relationship that both sides can defend to their citizens and includes a shared commitment to reform.

Prevent the Continued Growth Of Islamist Terrorism
 In October 2003, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld asked if enough was being done ''to fashion a broad integrated plan to stop the next generation of terrorists.'' As part of such a plan, the U.S. government should:
 Define the message and stand as an example of moral leadership in the world. To Muslim parents, terrorists like Bin Ladin have nothing to offer their children but visions of violence and death. America and its friends have the advantage -- our vision can offer a better future. 
 Where Muslim governments, even those who are friends, do not offer opportunity, respect the rule of law, or tolerate differences, then the United States needs to stand for a better future. 
 Communicate and defend American ideals in the Islamic world, through much stronger public diplomacy to reach more people, including students and leaders outside of government. Our efforts here should be as strong as they were in combating closed societies during the Cold War. 
 Offer an agenda of opportunity that includes support for public education and economic openness. 
 Develop a comprehensive coalition strategy against Islamist terrorism, using a flexible contact group of leading coalition governments and fashioning a common coalition approach on issues like the treatment of captured terrorists. 
 Devote a maximum effort to the parallel task of countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
 Expect less from trying to dry up terrorist money and more from following the money for intelligence, as a tool to hunt terrorists, understand their networks, and disrupt their operations.

Protect Against and Prepare For Terrorist Attacks
 Target terrorist travel, an intelligence and security strategy that the 9/11 story showed could be at least as powerful as the effort devoted to terrorist finance. 
 Address problems of screening people with biometric identifiers across agencies and governments, including our border and transportation systems, by designing a comprehensive screening system that addresses common problems and sets common standards. As standards spread, this necessary and ambitious effort could dramatically strengthen the world's ability to intercept individuals who could pose catastrophic threats. 
 Quickly complete a biometric entry-exit screening system, one that also speeds qualified travelers. 
 Set standards for the issuance of birth certificates and sources of identification, such as driver's licenses. 
 Develop strategies for neglected parts of our transportation security system. Since 9/11, about 90 percent of the nation's $5 billion annual investment in transportation security has gone to aviation, to fight the last war. 
 In aviation, prevent arguments about a new computerized profiling system from delaying vital improvements in the ''no-fly'' and ''automatic selectee'' lists. Also, give priority to the improvement of checkpoint screening. 
 Determine, with leadership from the president, guidelines for gathering and sharing information in the new security systems that are needed, guidelines that integrate safeguards for privacy and other essential liberties. 
 Base federal funding for emergency preparedness solely on risks and vulnerabilities, putting New York City and Washington, D.C., at the top of the current list. Such assistance should not remain a program for general revenue sharing or pork-barrel spending.

HOW TO DO IT? A DIFFERENT WAY OF ORGANIZING GOVERNMENT
 The strategy we have recommended is elaborate, even as presented here very briefly. To implement it will require a government better organized than the one that exists today, with its national security institutions designed half a century ago to win the cold war. Americans should not settle for incremental, ad hoc adjustments to a system created a generation ago for a world that no longer exists. 
 Our detailed recommendations are designed to fit together. Their purpose is clear: to build unity of effort across the U.S. government. As one official now serving on the front lines overseas put it to us: ''One fight, one team.'' 
 We call for unity of effort in five areas, beginning with unity of effort on the challenge of counterterrorism itself: 
 Unifying strategic intelligence and operational planning against Islamist terrorists across the foreign-domestic divide with a National Counterterrorism Center; 
 Unifying the intelligence community with a new national intelligence director; 
 Unifying the many participants in the counterterrorism effort and their knowledge in a network-based information sharing system that transcends traditional governmental boundaries; 
 Unifying and strengthening congressional oversight to improve quality and accountability; and 
 Strengthening the F.B.I. and homeland defenders.

Unity of Effort: A National Counterterrorism Center
 The 9/11 story teaches the value of integrating strategic intelligence from all sources into joint operational planning -- with both dimensions spanning the foreign-domestic divide. 
 In some ways, since 9/11, joint work has gotten better. The effort of fighting terrorism has flooded over many of the usual agency boundaries because of its sheer quantity and energy. Attitudes have changed. But the problems of coordination have multiplied. The Defense Department alone has three unified commands (Socom, Centcom and Northcom) that deal with terrorism as one of their principal concerns. 
 Much of the public commentary about the 9/11 attacks has focused on ''lost opportunities.'' Though characterized as problems of ''watch-listing,'' ''information sharing,'' or ''connecting the dots,'' each of these labels is too narrow. They describe the symptoms, not the disease. 
 Breaking the older mold of organization stovepiped purely in executive agencies, we propose a National Counterterrorism Center (N.C.T.C.) that would borrow the joint, unified command concept adopted in the 1980's by the American military in a civilian agency, combining the joint intelligence function alongside the operations work. 
 The N.C.T.C. would build on the existing Terrorist Threat Integration Center and would replace it and other terrorism ''fusion centers'' within the government. The N.C.T.C. would become the authoritative knowledge bank, bringing information to bear on common plans. It should task collection requirements both inside and outside the United States. 
 The N.C.T.C. should perform joint operational planning, assigning lead responsibilities to existing agencies and letting them direct the actual execution of the plans. 
 Placed in the executive office of the president, headed by a Senate-confirmed official (with rank equal to the deputy head of a cabinet department) who reports to the national intelligence director, the N.C.T.C. would track implementation of plans. It would be able to influence the leadership and the budgets of the counterterrorism operating arms of the C.I.A., the F.B.I., and the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security. 
 The N.C.T.C. should not be a policymaking body. Its operations and planning should follow the policy direction of the president and the National Security Council.

Unity of Effort: A National Intelligence Director
 Since long before 9/11 -- and continuing to this day -- the intelligence community is not organized well for joint intelligence work. It does not employ common standards and practices in reporting intelligence or in training experts overseas and at home. The expensive national capabilities for collecting intelligence have divided management. The structures are too complex and too secret. 
 The community's head -- the director of central intelligence -- has at least three jobs: running the C.I.A., coordinating a 15-agency confederation, and being the intelligence analyst in chief to the president. No one person can do all these things. 
 A new national intelligence director should be established with two main jobs: (1) to oversee national intelligence centers that combine experts from all the collection disciplines against common targets -- like counterterrorism or nuclear proliferation; and (2) to oversee the agencies that contribute to the national intelligence program, a task that includes setting common standards for personnel and information technology. 
 The national intelligence centers would be the unified commands of the intelligence world -- a long overdue reform for intelligence comparable to the 1986 Goldwater-Nichols law that reformed the organization of national defense. The home services -- such as the C.I.A., D.I.A., N.S.A., and F.B.I. -- would organize, train, and equip the best intelligence professionals in the world, and would handle the execution of intelligence operations in the field. 
 This national intelligence director (N.I.D.) should be located in the Executive Office of the President and report directly to the president, yet be confirmed by the Senate. In addition to overseeing the National Counterterrorism Center described above (which will include both the national intelligence center for terrorism and the joint operations planning effort), the N.I.D. should have three deputies: 
 For foreign intelligence (a deputy who also would be the head of the C.I.A.) 
 For defense intelligence (also the under secretary of defense for intelligence) 
 For homeland intelligence (also the executive assistant director for intelligence at the F.B.I. or the under secretary of homeland security for information analysis and infrastructure protection) 
 The N.I.D. should receive a public appropriation for national intelligence, should have authority to hire and fire his or her intelligence deputies, and should be able to set common personnel and information technology policies across the intelligence community. 
 The C.I.A. should concentrate on strengthening the collection capabilities of its clandestine service and the talents of its analysts, building pride in its core expertise. 
 Secrecy stifles oversight, accountability, and information sharing. Unfortunately, all the current organizational incentives encourage overclassification. This balance should change; and as a start, open information should be provided about the overall size of agency intelligence budgets.

Unity of Effort: Sharing Information
 The U.S. government has access to a vast amount of information. But it has a weak system for processing and using what it has. The system of ''need to know'' should be replaced by a system of ''need to share.'' 
 The president should lead a governmentwide effort to bring the major national security institutions into the information revolution, turning a mainframe system into a decentralized network. The obstacles are not technological. Official after official has urged us to call attention to problems with the unglamorous ''back office'' side of government operations. 
 But no agency can solve the problems on its own -- to build the network requires an effort that transcends old divides, solving common legal and policy issues in ways that can help officials know what they can and cannot do. Again, in tackling information issues, America needs unity of effort.

Unity of Effort: Congress
 Congress took too little action to adjust itself or to restructure the executive branch to address the emerging terrorist threat. Congressional oversight for intelligence -- and counterterrorism -- is dysfunctional. Both Congress and the executive need to do more to minimize national security risks during transitions between administrations. 
 For intelligence oversight, we propose two options: either a joint committee on the old model of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy or a single committee in each house combining authorizing and appropriating committees. Our central message is the same: the intelligence committees cannot carry out their oversight function unless they are made stronger, and thereby have both clear responsibility and accountability for that oversight. 
 Congress should create a single, principal point of oversight and review for homeland security. There should be one permanent standing committee for homeland security in each chamber. 
 We propose reforms to speed up the nomination, financial reporting, security clearance, and confirmation process for national security officials at the start of an administration, and suggest steps to make sure that incoming administrations have the information they need.

Unity of Effort: Organizing America's Defenses in the United States
 We have considered several proposals relating to the future of the domestic intelligence and counterterrorism mission. Adding a new domestic intelligence agency will not solve America's problems in collecting and analyzing intelligence within the United States. We do not recommend creating one. 
 We propose the establishment of a specialized and integrated national security workforce at the F.B.I., consisting of agents, analysts, linguists, and surveillance specialists who are recruited, trained, rewarded, and retained to ensure the development of an institutional culture imbued with a deep expertise in intelligence and national security. 
 At several points we asked: Who has the responsibility for defending us at home? Responsibility for America's national defense is shared by the Department of Defense, with its new Northern Command, and by the Department of Homeland Security. They must have a clear delineation of roles, missions, and authority.
 The Department of Defense and its oversight committees should regularly assess the adequacy of Northern Command's strategies and planning to defend against military threats to the homeland. 
 The Department of Homeland Security and its oversight committees should regularly assess the types of threats the country faces, in order to determine the adequacy of the government's plans and the readiness of the government to respond to those threats. 
 We call on the American people to remember how we all felt on 9/11, to remember not only the unspeakable horror but how we came together as a nation -- one nation. Unity of purpose and unity of effort are the way we will defeat this enemy and make America safer for our children and grandchildren. 
 We look forward to a national debate on the merits of what we have recommended, and we will participate vigorously in that debate.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ATTA
AL-SHEHHI
AL-JARRAH
BIN AL-SHIBH
ALHAZMI
AL-MIDHAR
(Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A14)
HANJOUR
MOUSSAOUI
(Photo by The Associated Press)
 (Photo by Reuters)(pg. A15)Chart: ''The Plot and Missed Opportunities''The report from the 9/11 Commission detailed 10 opportunities, shown in gray, that intelligence agencies missed to thwart the Sept. 11 plot.1996AL QAEDA LEADERSHIPMAY Osama bin Laden leaves Sudan for Afghanistan.INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY1996 The C.I.A.'s Counterterrorist Center creates a special ''issue station'' devoted exclusively to Mr. bin Laden, considered to be a terrorist financier.MID-1996 -- Khalid Shaikh Mohammed pitches a plan to use airplanes as weapons to Mr. bin Laden, who listens, but does not commit.1997EARLY 1997 -- The issue station is aware that Mr. bin Laden is not just a financier but an organizer of terrorist activity.1998MOVEMENTS OF THE HIJACKERS1998 -- Mohamed Atta, a student in Hamburg, Germany, who would become the lead hijacker, moves into an apartment with Ramzi bin al-Shibh and Marwan al-Shehhi. They meet Ziad al-Jarrah.MAY -- A plan to use Afghan tribal groups to capture Mr. bin Laden is scrapped.AUG. 7, 1998 -- Car bombings by Al Qaeda of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania kill more than 200.AUG. -- After the embassy bombings, cruise missile strikes are launched against terrorist sites in Sudan and Afghanistan. Covert operations using tribal groups to capture or kill Mr. bin Laden are planned.DEC. 1998-MAY 1999Several times after receiving intelligence on Mr. bin Laden's whereabouts, missile strikes are considered but never carried out because of concerns about the intelligence and casualties.1999EARLY 1999 -- Mr. bin Laden tells Mr. Mohammed to go ahead with his plan to use airplanes as weapons in both the United States and Southeast Asia, and suggests four hijackers, including Nawaq Alhazmi and Khalid al-Midhar.SUMMER -- Staff changes at the counterterrorism center and the bin Laden issue station shift its focus toward developing the C.I.A.'s own sources in Afghanistan, rather than relying on the Afghan groups.FALL -- The four Al Qaeda members suggested by Mr. bin Laden attend a training camp in Afghanistan.NOV.-DEC. -- The Hamburg students travel to Afghanistan and join Al Qaeda and the Sept. 11 plot.DEC. -- The arrests of a terrorist cell in Jordan and of a terrorist at the U.S.-Canadian border lead to warnings of a millennium terrorist attack.2000JAN. -- Mr. Alhazmi and Mr. Midhar meet in Kuala Lumpur with Khallad, who later becomes a suspect in the Cole bombing, before arriving in California on Jan. 15. They soon take a few flying lessons.JAN. -- Surveillance teams watch the meeting in Kuala Lumpur but do not know the identity of all the members and lose the trail.SPRING 2000 -- Mr. bin Laden cancels the Southeast Asia part of the plan, deciding it would be too hard to coordinate.1. The C.I.A. does not place Mr. Midhar on a watch list or notify the F.B.I. when it learns he has a U.S. visa. 2. The C.I.A. does not develop a plan to track Mr. Midhar's movements.MARCH -- 3. The C.I.A. does not place Mr. Alhazmi on a watch list or notify the F.B.I. when it learns he has a U.S. visa and had flown to Los Angeles.MID-2000 -- When it becomes clear that Mr. Alhazmi and Mr. Midhar are not learning how to fly, Mr. Mohammed adds Hani Hanjour to the operation.MAY-JUNE -- Mr. Atta, Mr. Shehhi and Mr. Jarrah enter the U.S. and begin flight training in Florida. Mr. bin al-Shibh is unable to obtain a visa and remains overseas.SEPT. -- The C.I.A flies unmanned reconnaissance aircraft over Afghanistan to look for Mr. bin Laden. During the fall,16 missions are flown, twice possibly spotting him. The program is halted in 2001 to wait for an armed version of the drone to be developed.OCT. 12 -- In Yemen, 17 American sailors are killed in an attack by Al Qaeda on the warship Cole.DEC. -- Mr. Hanjour arrives in San Diego and soon begins taking flight lessons.2001JAN.4. The C.I.A. does not inform the F.B.I. that a source had identified Mr. Khallad as having attended the meeting in Kuala Lumpur.FEB. -- Zaccarias Moussaoui, who may have been considered to replace one of the hijackers, arrives and starts flight school in Oklahoma.SPRINGReports of terrorist threats reach the highest level since the millennium plots.MAY5. A C.I.A. official does not inform the F.B.I. about Mr. Midhar's visa, Mr. Alhazmi's U.S. travel or Mr. Khallad's presence at the meeting.JUNE6. F.B.I. and C.I.A. officials do not ensure that all relevant information regarding the Kuala Lumpur meeting is shared with Cole investigators.SUMMERThreat reports surge, and disruption operations are launched in 20 countries.AUG. -- Mr. Moussaoui begins training on a 747 simulator at a school in Minnesota. A suspicious instructor alerts the authorities.AUG.7. The F.B.I. does not recognize the signifigance of Mr. Midhar's and Mr. Alhazmi's arrival. 8. The F.B.I. does not recognize the significance of Mr. Moussaoui's flight training. 9. The C.I.A. does not focus on information that Mr. Mohammed is a key Qaeda lieutenant. 10. The C.I.A. and F.B.I. do not connect the presence of Mr. Midhar, Mr. Alhazmi and Mr. Moussaoui to general reports about imminent attacks.SEPT. 11Attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon kill almost 3,000 people.(Diagram drawings by Matthew Ericson, Lalena Fisher and Brett Taylor/The New York Times)(pg. A14, A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (92%); AIRLINES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); JET FUEL (67%); WORLD WAR II (67%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%) Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (90%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); SUDAN (92%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); YEMEN (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (72%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



482 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Rell Is Ready to Get Down to Business in Connecticut

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 22 

 BODY:
On the day she was sworn in three weeks ago, Gov. M. Jodi Rell told the crowd gathered at the north steps of the Capitol that she would work to end the state's ''culture of corruption'' and ''restore faith, integrity and honor to our government.''
 But after assuring Connecticut it could step from the scandalous shadow of her predecessor, John G. Rowland, who resigned effective July 1 in the face of an impeachment inquiry and a federal corruption investigation, Mrs. Rell also said this: ''Over the next few weeks and months, we will be proposing new initiatives on the economy, education and campaign finance reform.''
 Three weeks into her administration, Mrs. Rell said on Thursday that reinforcing the importance of ethical conduct is a persistent challenge. ''Ethics doesn't quit,'' she said, but she also is addressing other problems that linger from the Rowland administration as well as beginning to pursue her own economic and educational goals. 
 Speaking during a 35-minute interview in her office, Mrs. Rell said she wanted to expand and deepen the state's role in bringing in new businesses and expanding existing ones; she is considering creating pilot programs in early childhood education; she is worried about a possible federal reduction in state highway financing; and she is prepared to spend the money necessary to overhaul a troubled juvenile detention center that has been under investigation for both its operation and construction.
 The construction of the $57 million Connecticut Juvenile Training School in Middletown is at the center of allegations that state contracts were rigged in the Rowland administration, and it has been criticized for its prisonlike setting. It has come under scrutiny for the treatment of juveniles in custody. 
 ''We will make the investment that is necessary to reconfigure that building, to redo it,'' Mrs. Rell said on Thursday. She also said she had asked Darlene Dunbar, the commissioner of the Department of Children and Families, the agency that oversees the school, ''to place a new emphasis on training.'' 
 Mrs. Rell noted that children sent to the school may be victims of abuse or drug abusers, and that different students should be treated differently. ''Troubled doesn't necessarily mean criminal,'' she said. She praised the work of Don DeVore, a juvenile justice expert who is under contract through Aug. 31 to turn the school around.
 Beyond healing old wounds, Mrs. Rell, a Republican who was lieutenant governor for more than nine years, said her most immediate goal was to improve the way the state nurtures businesses and economic development. She suggested that Mr. Rowland's administration, which invested heavily in state construction projects in cities, did not do enough to nurture new and existing businesses by promoting the state's skilled work force and suburban lifestyle.
 She noted that while Connecticut's 4.6 percent unemployment rate is lower than the national rate, the state still suffers job losses in manufacturing and other areas.
 Asked if her position on economic development distinguished her from Mr. Rowland, she said: ''I don't know. It distinguishes economic development from its previous role. It is more than simply a meet and greet. They already do a lot of this. I want them to do more.''
 The governor, a former state representative with a reputation for reading every bill, acknowledged that she was still in a ''gathering'' mode. Next week, she said, she plans to meet with four economists to discuss ''what is it Connecticut needs to do to be more in play when it comes to keeping jobs and growing jobs and businesses?''
 ''Jobs and the economy,'' she said, ''continue to be the No. 1 focus.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. M. Jodi Rell, in her Capitol office, outlined her goals yesterday. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ETHICS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BRIBERY (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); FAMILY (77%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EDUCATION REFORM (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FAMILY SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (69%); LABOR FORCE (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); SUBURBS (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Ethics; Governors (US); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Bribery; Impeachment

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%) William Yardley; M Jodi (Gov) Rell; John G Rowland

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



483 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE DIMINISHING BELL: ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Yet Again, A Brand Name Loses Its Magic

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
To most Americans, AT&T used to mean phone service, just as Xerox once meant copying and the Big Three -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler -- once stood for cars. 
 As iconic brands, they towered over their rivals and dominated their businesses.
 But the world of brands has changed. Indeed, the AT&T Corporation's decision to effectively retreat from the residential phone business -- by not seeking new customers or even trying to retain its current ones -- says a great deal not only about AT&T and the phone industry, but also about the jeopardy that once-leading brands in many other industries are in. 
 Famous brands have faded before, of course, but the impact of deregulation, galloping technology, marketing clutter and increasing global competition has made it harder than ever for established brands to stay on top. That is especially true when a dominant player in a market fails to react to change, allowing new and aggressive rivals to innovate with products or pricing.
 No one is suggesting that brands are not important. But increasingly, marketing experts say, companies that think their brands will insulate them against competition are in for a shock. The reverse is more likely to be true, marketers say: the brand will not compensate for missteps, but missteps will devastate the brand.
 Few iconic brands have fallen as fast or as far as AT&T. Back in the early 1980's, before the Justice Department forced the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company to break up, AT&T was known by many customers as Ma Bell or the phone company -- not a phone company, but the phone company. 
 AT&T lost this huge advantage as new competitors emerged and did a better job of serving customers. The company has said many of its problems were caused by regulatory decisions that unfairly put it at a competitive disadvantage. Others, however, say that AT&T's own mistakes made it vulnerable.
 ''They mismanaged businesses like cable, and fell behind the curve in recognizing what consumers wanted, like flat-rate pricing for long distance,'' said Nicholas Donatiello, president of Odyssey, a San Francisco research firm. ''AT&T didn't lead the way, consumers went elsewhere, and the result is the destruction of a brand that, a decade ago, was the standard of consumer brand names in the telecom space.''
 AT&T may have cut back on marketing just when it needed to bolster its image the most. Last year, with its share of the market a fraction of what it had been even after the breakup, AT&T spent an estimated $312.6 million to advertise in United States major media, compared with $427.8 million in 1998, according to TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
 Like many other once-dominant companies, AT&T's brand supremacy came under assault from many different angles -- in its case, from new rivals like MCI, then from the Baby Bells as they entered the long-distance market and most recently from Internet phone services.
 The increased competition in many industries underscores the new reality that few brands can be all things to all people. ''The metaphor for American society is no longer the melting pot; it's the quilt,'' Mr. Donatiello said. ''People no longer want to watch the same television show or use the same toothpaste.''
 Moreover, the global economy has increased the number of brands. Take the automotive industry. In one sense, it is still brand-driven. ''A small Indian company making a car still can't get its foot in the door in the United States market,'' said Puneet Manchanda, an associate professor of marketing at the University of Chicago's business school. But the stable of brands -- Toyota, Mercedes, Rolls-Royce, Saab and so on -- increasingly spans the globe. As a result, the market share of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler (now part of DaimlerChrysler) has declined sharply since the 1970's.
 A handful of airlines, too, used to dominate the United States market, relying on a combination of regulation and customer loyalty to stay profitable despite expensive labor costs and aging fleets. But then, eased rules paved the way for rivals like Southwest, JetBlue and others with low costs and young planes. The Internet, with its many ways for passengers to check on flights and compare prices, made it easy for customers to find the alternatives. Now, many venerable airlines are gone -- TWA and PanAm, for instance -- and United Airlines, USAir and several others are in jeopardy. Belatedly, some have started their own low-cost units -- Song from Delta and Ted from United are two -- but experts say it may be too little too late.
 Even if these airlines survive, the built-in advantage of their brand names has been diluted. ''The big companies with iconic brands are often too conscious of preserving their fat margins to realize they should be leading change,'' said Judy Hopelain, managing partner at Prophet Brand Strategy, a San Francisco consulting company. 
 In fact, for some companies, a strong brand identity has been as much hindrance as help. Smith Corona was a leader in manual typewriters, and Polaroid had a lock on the instant camera market, but both wound up in bankruptcy when they could not extricate their identity from antiquated technologies.
 Xerox and Kodak are grappling with similar issues now. Kodak long considered itself a photography company whose main problem was keeping competitors like Fuji at bay, and it did not respond as quickly as it should have to the threat posed by digital cameras. Only recently has Kodak turned a profit on digital photography.
 ''Kodak was so used to thinking it defined the entire product category that it took them a long time to regroup and refresh their brand,'' Professor Manchanda said.
 Similarly, Xerox's dominance in the copier market was so total that its brand became a verb to mean copying. But the advent of digital technology blurred the distinction between copiers and printers -- slap a scanner on a printer, and it is a copier -- and suddenly, Xerox was competing with Hewlett-Packard, Canon and others. Xerox, which came close to bankruptcy a few years ago, has been struggling to remake its image as a ''document processing company'' that sells printers and services. It is solidly in the black, but is not as dominant as it once was. 
 Flagging brands can, of course, be revived. Michael Watras, president of the New York brand consultancy Straightline International, noted that Apple has been successfully marketing itself as the ''cool'' computer for young, hip people -- and the backlog of orders on its iPod indicates the approach has succeeded. 
 Experts say that among companies that sell primarily to other businesses, the winners have been those that have associated their brands with solving problems, not products.
 That may yet be the saving grace for AT&T, as it focuses largely on corporate customers, Ms. Hopelain notes. ''Business customers are just a lot less likely to keep switching providers, particularly if they are getting a lot of service,'' she said. ''To stay relevant, a brand has to parlay its expertise to meet its customers' needs. And AT&T may still be able to do that. ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An AT&T ad from the 1980's, when its brand was still dominant, featured the actor Cliff Robertson as a spokesman. Below, an American Telephone and Telegraph advertising brochure from 1895. (Photo Property of AT&T Archives. Reprinted with permission of AT&T.)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRAND EQUITY (90%); BRANDING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Generic and Brand Name Products; Corporations; Advertising and Marketing; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: AT&T INC (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: At&t Corp

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2004



484 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 679 words

PERSON: Elie Abel

HEADLINE: Elie Abel, Newsman and Teacher, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Elie Abel, a former foreign and domestic correspondent at both The New York Times and NBC News who drew on those experiences as dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in the 1970's, died on Thursday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 83.
 The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Mark, but Mr. Abel had been in declining health since 1998, when he had a severe stroke. He also had Alzheimer's disease. 
 In nearly a quarter of a century as a working journalist, Mr. Abel saw a great deal of the country and the world. In one of his earliest newspaper jobs, he spent two years in Berlin in the late 1940's as a foreign correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance, covering the Nuremberg war-crimes trials and the early attempts to govern postwar Germany.
 In 1949, he joined The Times, which sent him initially to Detroit and Washington, before appointing him bureau chief in Belgrade (1956 to 1959) and New Delhi (1958-1959.) He left The Times in 1959 to spend two years at The Detroit News, as its Washington bureau chief, before beginning a six-year career at NBC that included tours as State Department correspondent, London bureau chief and chief diplomatic correspondent.
 In December 1969, Mr. Abel was named dean of the journalism school of Columbia, from which he had graduated with a masters degree 27 years earlier. 
 ''If you had asked me a year ago if I had any interest in this job, I would probably have said you were out of your mind,'' Mr. Abel was quoted as telling The Times, in a profile announcing his appointment. ''I decided I had done my share of running around the world and in more recent years of running to airports with microphones in my hand.''
 In a decade as dean, Mr. Abel was credited with many innovations, including the creation, in the mid-1970's, of a program in economics and business reporting for midcareer professionals. The program is now known as the Knight-Bagheot Fellowship. He was also the first dean to place a woman in a tenure track position on the faculty of the journalism school, according to ''Pulitzer's School: Columbia University's School of Journalism, 1903-2003,'' by James Boylan. She is Phyllis T. Garland, a former editor and writer at The Pittsburgh Courier and Essence magazine who was hired at Columbia in 1973 and who retired last month.
 ''We totally respected him,'' Ms. Garland said in an interview yesterday. ''He was a complete journalist. And he put himself on the line when necessary. He was also one of the best-looking men I've ever seen. Tall, dark and handsome.''
 Elie Abel was born in Montreal on Oct. 17, 1920. After graduating from McGill University in 1941 with a bachelor of arts degree, Mr. Abel earned his masters in science at Columbia a year later, but was forced to accept his degree in absentia because he was called to serve in the Royal Canadian Air Force, according to the profile in The Times. Stationed primarily in Scotland, he served as a radar officer and later as a combat correspondent. A day after his discharge, in 1945, he joined the staff of The Montreal Gazette.
 Mr. Abel's first wife, the former Corinne Adelaide Prevost, died in 1991 after 45 years of marriage. In addition to his son, of Richmond, Calif., he is survived by his second wife, the former Charlotte Hammond Page Dunn, whom he married in 1995; a daughter, Suzanne, of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
 Mr. Abel was the author or co-author of six books, including ''The Missile Crisis'' (Lippincott, 1966) and, with W. Averell Harriman, ''Special Envoy to Churchill and Stalin, 1941-1946'' (Random House, 1975).
 When he was interviewed by The Times in 1969 at the time of his Columbia appointment, Mr. Abel recalled a pivotal encounter, at the age of 12 or 13, with a ''dashing fellow'' who happened to be driving a flashy convertible.
 ''How did you manage all this?'' Mr. Abel recalled asking.
 ''I'm a reporter,'' the man replied.
 The author of The Times profile, Lawrence Van Gelder, then observed, 'Mr. Abel's course in life was likely charted right then and there.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Saturday about Elie Abel, a former news correspondent and later dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia, misidentified the former employer of Phyllis T. Garland, a professor whom he hired as the first woman on the tenure track. She had been a writer and editor at Ebony magazine, not Essence. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elie Abel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); JOURNALISM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); WRITERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HOSPICE (72%); STROKES (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); WAR CRIMES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (55%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (55%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



485 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2321 words

HEADLINE: Indians Go Home, but Don't Leave U.S. Behind

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
Snigdha Dhar sat in the echoing emptiness of her new home, her husband off at work, her 7-year-old son prattling on about Pizza Hut. The weather outside was California balmy. Children rode bicycles on wide smooth streets. Construction workers toiled on more villas like hers -- white paint, red roofs, green lawns -- and the community center's three pools. 
 Six years ago, Mrs. Dhar and her husband, Subhash, a vice president at Infosys Technologies, the Indian software giant, migrated like thousands of Indians before them, to America's Silicon Valley and its suburban good life.
 But Silicon Valley is not where their gated housing colony, Palm Meadows, sits. Like growing numbers of professional Indians who once saw their only hope for good jobs and good lives in the West, the Dhars have returned home to India. 
 Drawn by a booming economy, in which outsourcing is playing a crucial role, and the money to buy the lifestyle they had in America, Indians are returning in large numbers, many to this high-technology hub.
 What began as a trickle in the late 1990's is now substantial enough to be talked about as a ''reverse brain drain.'' By one estimate, there are 35,000 ''returned nonresident Indians'' in Bangalore, with many more scattered across India.
 For this still developing country, the implications of the reverse migration are potentially vast. 
 For decades, it has watched many of its best-educated move abroad, never to come back. Now a small portion of that talent is returning, their influence amplified beyond their numbers by their high-level skills and education, new cultural perspective and, in many cases, ample wealth. They are both staffing and starting companies, 110 of which set up shop in Bangalore in just the year that ended in March.
 In some cases, they are seeking to refashion India implicitly in America's image. It takes leaving and returning, said Arjun Kalyanpur, a radiologist who returned in 1999, to ask, ''Why should my country be any less than the country I was in?''
 This impulse is not universally welcomed by some Indians who never left and who see a globalized elite -- many of whom now carry American passports, not Indian -- importing a Western culture as distorting in its way as British colonialism. 
 Still, returned reformers are already sparking change. Srikanth Nadhamuni, who helped design the Intel Pentium chip, is now applying his formidable skills to designing a software platform that could revolutionize the administration of India's local governments. 
 Lathika Pai, one of the few women in India's high-technology sector, is trying to bring America's best practices for working mothers to the B2K Corporation, her business-process outsourcing company. Others are trying to encourage schools to teach critical thinking, or force government to be more responsive to citizens. 
 S. Nagarajan, an entrepreneur, calls it ''brain gain.'' ''They have not come back just as they went there,'' he said.
 He came back because he saw in India the business opportunity he once saw in America, where he struck it rich in the 1990's. The call center he and his partners started in Bangalore in 2000 with 20 employees now has 3,600, and $30 million in annual revenues.
 Others have been drawn back by the tug of family and the almost atavistic pull of roots, or pushed by diminishing job opportunities in Silicon Valley and tightening Americans visa regulations.
 Many of them are returning to communities like Palm Meadows, whose developer, the Adarsh Group, advertises ''beautiful homes for beautiful people.'' The liberalization of India's state-run economy over the last 13 years has spawned a suburban culture of luxury housing developments, malls and sport utility vehicles that is also enabling India to compete for its Americanized best and brightest.
 ''It is amazing what you can get in terms of quality of life,'' Subhash Dhar said of the India to which he and his family returned about two months ago.

Trying to Reconnect
 The little girls wore dresses of rich blues and hot pinks and deep reds. Their ankle bells tinkled as their feet smacked the floor. They cocked their heads and bent their hands up, trying to perfect the poses of a 1,600-year-old Indian dance form, Bharathanatyam, in the community center of a housing complex that bore almost no trace of India.
 All the girls were daughters of returnees, like Prasad Kamisetty, an Intel employee back after 15 years, whose sonorous singing accompanied the dancers, and Sunita Maheshwari, a pediatric cardiologist, who kept one eye on the dance lessons and one on her 4-year-old son in the pool outside. They live in a pastel, pastoral gated compound, Regent Place, where two-story houses with barbecues in the backyard line a tree-shaded main lane.
 Where Indian parents have long worried about how to give their children sufficient exposure to the English language and Western culture, many returnees say they worry more about how to connect their children to India.
 The returnees describe identities in flux, riddled with continuing questions about what to cook, what holidays to celebrate, what languages to speak, and how to interact with a country that sometimes seems as foreign as the United States once did.
 Many spent formative years abroad. On their return, they rejoin an upper middle-class tributary of Indian life that represents a mere sliver of this nation's more than a billion people, 300 million of whom remain abjectly poor.
 Their communities are secure and closed off, immune from the water shortages and power cuts that plague this city of 6.5 million people. Their children attend private schools, often Western-flavored ''international'' ones. For lunch, their children want what they ate in America: peanut butter and jelly and potato chips -- all now available here.
 Dr. Maheshwari and her husband, Arjun Kalyanpur, see the dance class as a way to graft Indian culture onto their daughter Alisha. The private school they have selected is another, where the children squat, Indian-style, at desks on the floor and learn yoga and Hindu traditional hymns.
 ''We're sort of crosscultural byproducts who are straddling both worlds without necessarily being firmly entrenched in the Indian culture,'' said Dr. Maheshwari, 38, who is half-American but was raised in India.
 The couple came back after eight years away to be closer to their parents, and because she felt she could contribute more in India. She is one of only about 14 pediatric cardiologists in the entire country. In one outpatient clinic, she sees more untreated medical problems than she ever saw at Yale-New Haven Hospital, where she and her husband trained and worked.
 Her husband has found himself on the cutting edge of medical outsourcing. A radiologist, Dr. Kalyanpur had resigned himself to a significant pay drop upon his return. Then he proved to Yale that he could accurately read CT scans and other images transmitted via broadband to India. He began working for them from afar before starting his own business, Teleradiology Solutions Inc., in 2002.
 He spends his days reading images for the emergency room nightshifts of about 40 American hospitals, compensating for the shortfall of nighttime radiologists in the United States, and being compensated at near-American salary levels. His partner, like him, is American-trained; at least two more Indian-born radiologists are moving back from the United States to work with them.
 ''India always suffered from the cream of its medical community migrating overseas,'' he said. ''Now there is the possibility to go back.'' 
 India changed in the time Dr. Kalyanpur, 39, was away. Where it once took a year to get a phone connection, it may now take a day.
 But he changed as well. He and his wife gravitated to Bangalore, where neither of them had ever lived, in part for the cosmopolitanism in its pubs and cultural life. Regent Place drew them because many European expatriates also live there.
 ''It makes the transition easier,'' he said.
 On his return, India's poverty loomed up at him, and he and his wife grapple with how to deal with it. They raised money to put a playground in the government school in the village across from their housing complex, and are doing the same for another school nearby.
 It is a small attempt to bridge India's great and growing gulf. On a Saturday, children with want visible in thin faces, in bare feet and tattered uniforms, scaled the swing set bought by the returnees, whose own children played across the street inside Regent Place.

New Outlets for New Talents
 On a Sunday morning, Ramesh Ramanathan stood before some 40 middle-class Indians in a garden green with banana, coconut, and hibiscus trees.
 ''How many of us think India is a great country?'' he asked the group, all residents of the Pillana Gardens neighborhood.
 All hands rose.
 ''How many of us think India has a great government?''
 All hands fell.
 ''Give a few hours each week to making governance better,'' he implored the skeptics before him.
 Mr. Ramanathan, 40, was at ease, yet somehow stood apart. Was it the jeans and rolled-up shirt sleeves? The hip, slightly floppy haircut? Or his insistence that change was possible in India, when many of those present confessed they had given up? 
 ''We will try our best,'' one man said in answer to his exhortation.
 '''Try' is not good enough,'' Mr. Ramanathan said.
 By the traditional career arcs of the West, or India for that matter, Mr. Ramanathan and his wife, Swathi, did not seem destined for proselytizing for civic activism.
 Like many young, ambitious, middle-class Indian couples, they moved to the United States in the 1980's. He earned an M.B.A. from Yale and rose to become a senior executive at Citibank. She earned a master's degree in design from Pratt and became a successful designer. They moved to London, where he ran a $100 million business in corporate derivatives for Citibank.
 Among their pastimes, usually with fellow expatriates, was bemoaning their homeland with sentences that began: ''The problem with India is '' They would ponder why they so easily went forth and succeeded, while back home, India and so many of its people could not.
 At the end of 1998, they came back, wanting their children to get to know their grandparents. They have since put their skills and their experience in the West toward improving public governance and working with the urban poor. Mr. Ramanathan made himself an expert in public finance, and spent two years reforming Bangalore's chaotic financial management system, now ranked among the world's best.
 In December 2001, they started Janaagraha, a civic movement intended to make citizens demand greater accountability and effectiveness from their government. The monthly review meetings in municipal wards also help bind the middle class and poor -- to build a community, in short, strong enough to challenge a government imbued with both colonial and socialist assumptions that it knows better than the people.
 ''In America, citizens have reluctantly let government into their lives,'' he said. ''Here government is reluctantly letting citizens in.'' As part of what he calls the ''lucky generation'' that has been able to succeed abroad, he said, ''If we don't come back and say there is an alternative, who is going to do it?'' 
 He and other returnees believe that India remains too reliant on personal relationships, decisions and whims, and they have resolved to build American-style systems. 
 That is the focus of Srikanth Nadhamuni, who returned two years ago after 16 years in America, most of it spent in Silicon Valley, where he helped to develop the Sun Microsystems Ultrasparc and Intel Pentium chips.
 When he returned, he was appalled by Bangalore's pollution, traffic and poor roads. Tax revenues were not growing commensurate with cities, and therefore neither were basic services. Wealthy individuals and companies had swanky homes and offices, but they were islands.
 In response, he began developing an ''e-government'' software platform that uses digital mapping to permit far more accurate property tax assessments and collection. It will allow for electronic tax payment, birth and death registrations, the filing of citizen grievances, the public tracking of small infrastructure projects, and more.
 In Bangalore, the system has already brought in hundreds of thousands of dollars in additional property tax revenue and has reduced corruption. The Delhi Municipal Corporation -- the world's second-largest municipality after Tokyo -- will test it soon.
 Mr. Nadhamuni wants others, especially in information technology, to offer their talents to India. ''We are making a couple of billion dollars of software exports, but we are not solving India's problems,'' he said. ''We are solving the world's problems. He says his mission is ''even better than being on the Pentium project.'' 
 His work abroad, like Mr. Ramanathan's, has made it possible to be a full-time volunteer, living off savings potentially for life by taking advantage of the much lower cost of living. In Bangalore, Mr. Nadhamuni said, he can live well on $1,500 a month.
 ''This is not to prove a point that we're back here,'' he said. ''We've gotten used to the U.S. If I have a huge drop in my standard of living, I'm not going to be effective.''
 On a Saturday morning, his 4-year-old daughter played on the computer in their airy apartment at a gated apartment complex, the Golden Enclave.
 ''Build a fortress like Tipu Sultan's fortress,'' Mr. Nadhamuni said, trying to entice her to the wooden blocks on the floor with a reference to the 18th-century warrior who challenged the British colonial rulers. ''Sim City,'' she clamored, her preference clearly for the American-designed computer game in which you alone shape the virtual urban landscape on the screen.


GRAPHIC: Photos: When Snigdha Dhar and her family returned to India, they moved into a California-style gated community. (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Swathi Ramanathan and her husband, Ramesh, right, are using their American master's degrees to try to improve Bangalore's government.
 Alisha, left, whose family returned to India, with Shruthi, Samhita and Arya, practicing Indian dance gestures to keep contact with their culture. (Photographs by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times)(pg. A6)Map of India highlighting Bangalore: Bangalore has attracted many computer entrepreneurs. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); REFUGEES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TRENDS (69%); BEST PRACTICES (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Computers and the Internet; Suburbs; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Life Styles

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (83%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%); INTEL CORP (57%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (83%); INFY (NYSE) (83%); INFY (NSE) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Amy Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) India; Silicon Valley (Calif); Bangalore (India); India

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



486 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Double on Ballot: Similar Names Sow Confusion

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Jose E. Serrano encountered a slight impediment on the way to being re-elected to Congress from the Bronx. It was Jose Serrano, an unemployed former loading dockworker with the same name, who had decided that he, too, wanted the Congressional seat.
 But anyone trying to pin the unemployed Mr. Serrano down on the issues gets some murky answers. When asked about his platform, he replied: ''Platform? Well, I'm not sure what you're talking about.'' Questioned about how he decided to run, he said a friend -- someone he knows only as Jose -- one day asked him to. After thinking about it for a moment, he recalled: ''I said, why not? I don't have anything else to do.'' 
 The candidacy of Mr. Serrano (the unemployed one) is just the latest example of a curious novelty being increasingly seen in New York City politics: two candidates with the same name, running for the same office. Call it coincidence. But some say it's a perfect way to make trouble for a popular candidate by splitting the vote so that a third candidate can benefit.
 Just last year, City Councilman John C. Liu, a Queens Democrat, faced a competitor named Jay C. Liu, a businessman who had never run for office before. In 1991, Jose Rivera faced a challenge to his City Council seat from Jose L. Rivera. And Assemblyman Vito Lopez said he was once opposed by a political novice named Victor Lopez. ''Even though the first names were different, they were similar enough to confuse the voters,'' Mr. Lopez said.
 As it turned out, Mr. Serrano, 47, aborted his nascent political career this week after being questioned by a reporter in calls to the apartment he shares with relatives on East Tremont Avenue. But nominating papers he filed at the Board of Elections on behalf of his campaign committee show that his petitions included hundreds of signatures, some on behalf of several other figures in Bronx politics that have long been at odds with the local Democratic Party, which supports Mr. Serrano (the congressman).
 The rash of similar candidacies has even produced a state law in Albany. That measure, introduced by Assemblyman Vito Lopez after he beat back the bid from Victor Lopez mandates that two candidates with the same name be listed with a number beside his or her name, forcing, say, a Mr. Rivera to run as Jose Rivera 1. In a little-known provision, the law also states that in the case of identical names, a candidate has the right to petition the Board of Elections to include short biographical information, like the office held by a candidate, on the ballot.
 Mr. Lopez said that the issue of similar names has been more pronounced in largely Hispanic areas of the city. ''There are about 15 major surnames, and it's easy for someone to find a candidate with a similar name,'' Mr. Lopez said.
 Mr. Serrano, the former dockworker, said he was not paid to enter the race, but he offered almost no other explanation for his decision to run for Congress, and cut short the phone conversation. 
 Elected officials, however, say that names can be picked from the phone book or voter registration rolls, and from there candidates are plucked from obscurity by some politicians to run against various opponents. The presence of candidates with similar names, they reason, siphons votes from the better-known candidate while increasing the prospects for a third candidate.
 Councilman Liu's political strategist insists that the short-lived candidacy of Jay C. Liu was intended to divide the Asian vote to allow a non-Asian candidate to win in his Queens district.
 Candidates enmeshed in such battles must come up with some innovative tricks to get people to vote for them. In 1991 Jose Rivera ran to keep his Council seat against Jose L. Rivera by using ads that said, ''Remember, it's simply Jose Rivera. Councilman Jose Rivera. With no middle initial.''
 Mr. Rivera, who is now an assemblyman and also the Bronx Democratic Party chairman, described such challenges as simply a method for opponents to create havoc for incumbents they dislike.
 ''To me, it is politics at its worst,'' Assemblyman Rivera said. ''It's just part of what makes people think of politics as a dirty game. So far it hasn't worked. And I hope it never will.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Congressman Jose E. Serrano, who was challenged by a former dockworker. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); PETITIONS (87%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); BALLOTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CITIES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Names, Personal; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Board of Elections (NYC)

PERSON: JOSE E SERRANO (93%) Jonathan P Hicks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



487 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: For Addicts At One Center, Severity Is Key To Success

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
There are those who try to beat their drug and alcohol addictions with the help of fairly luxurious centers with gourmet meals and fancy amenities. But not Nelson Pavon, 43, who is kicking his heroin addiction at Grupo Jovenes New York, a rehabilitation center in Corona, Queens.
 Mr. Pavon lives in the center's cramped basement with 23 other men. They sleep in shifts on bunks, some of which are so close to the low ceiling that the men cannot sit up. But for Mr. Pavon, it is at least better than his first three days, which he was ordered to spend sitting on a chair without a shower or a pillow or a change of clothes. 
 Like many rehabilitation centers, Grupo Jovenes, requires a mandatory stay in which clients both give and listen to personal testimonials and learn the 12-step approach to recovery from drug and alcohol addiction.
 But unlike rehabilitation centers with spas, massages, yoga and acupuncture, Grupo Jovenes has no such comforts to soften the bumpy ride to sobriety. There is no bucolic campus and no rich or famous clients, but rather 36 Spanish-speaking immigrants -- most of them undocumented and homeless -- crammed for three months at a time into a narrow, inconspicuous one-family house with faded yellow siding.
 But that severe setting, its administrator says, is the key to the center's success. Most clients are immigrants who come to New York looking for a better life, but wind up plagued by unemployment, discrimination and immigration snags, said Miguel Antonio Torres, the center's administrator.
 ''They come looking for the American dream but get trapped in a vicious circle of alcohol and drugs,'' he said. ''They lose everything and live in the streets as the scourge of society. Many come here because they're afraid if they go to a hospital or clinic they'll be deported. This is the last stop, because they have nowhere else to go.''
 The center is on a residential street several blocks from Shea Stadium in a neighborhood populated with immigrants from Mexico and Central America. Its slogan is ''terapia intensiva,'' or ''intensive therapy,'' and its operating principle is that the spartan conditions are required to make a severe life change.
 The center is free, and no newcomer is turned away, day or night, Mr. Torres said. They are screened, however. New residents must spend three full days in a chair in the ground-floor meeting room. They sit through group discussions, slumping sometimes for sleep. Fellow residents bring them meals and take them to the bathroom, but make sure they do not shower or change clothing.
 After three days, it gets better, but not much. The newcomer, having proven he is committed to a painful struggle to change his life, is permitted a shower and change of clothes. He is given toiletries and a list of chores and must spend the balance of the day attending the group discussions that run around the clock in the meeting room.
 Then, except for the occasional trip to the park on a Sunday afternoon, the client must spend the next three months without leaving the property. Books and newspapers are forbidden, as are radio and television. This is called Phase One.
 For Phase Two, the client can begin looking for a job outside and move up to either of the two small bedrooms upstairs that have six bunk beds each and air conditioning and television.
 The conditions are dictated, in part, by the center's shoestring budget, financed by donations and by members who have returned to work, Mr. Torres said. He said the men ultimately band together and save each other.
 ''Our success rate is higher than most fancy rehab programs because we're a family, and the guys stay members of our family even after they leave,'' he said. ''Money makes it easier for an addict to relapse. Money and family can be a crutch. Here you don't have that crutch. You may do great on some farm in Princeton or some Malibu mansion where they pamper you, but you can always go back to your mansion. Our people have nothing but the street to go back to.''
 The center, which opened in 1991 in a basement in Corona and has been at its current location for seven years, gets referrals from word of mouth, local health-care providers and community organizations like Bread and Life, a nonprofit organization whose mobile soup kitchen serves hot meals to the many day laborers who gather nearby along Roosevelt Avenue.
 On Wednesday in the stuffy, warm meeting room, two sleeping men, slumped in chairs, were awakened to listen to Mr. Pavon, 31, tell his story. Mr. Pavon described in Spanish how heroin had taken all he had and left only a swollen purple bruise in the crux of his right elbow.
 ''When I first came here and heard I had to spend three days on the chair, I was ready to turn around and walk out,'' he said. ''But I felt a certain warmth.''
 Afterward, he walked down to the smallish basement, which was dimly lit, uncomfortably warm and smelling of mildew. Six two-bed bunks were squeezed in, so that one could barely squeeze through to the small bathroom in back. The residents sleep in shifts, sharing beds. A water pipe runs just over the sleeping men.
 ''It's tight quarters,'' Mr. Pavon said.
 Out the center's back door, several men were smoking cigarettes in the narrow driveway. On an upended cinder block was an empty Cafe Bustelo coffee can with a young green plant growing straight out of it.
 Peter Roman, 45, an electrician whose hands now shake like leaves from drink, said his life had crumbled around him because he could not stop consuming rum. He sat smoking and said that he hardly minded the tough conditions, including sharing his bunk with two other men, if it could get him off ''that bat juice'' once and for all.
 ''I spent 13 years in the Army,'' he said, ''and this is worse than boot camp.''
 Out on the small front stoop, Bert, 63, a retired building superintendent from Flushing who withheld his last name, stood smoking. He said he checked himself into Grupo Jovenes after his crack addiction nearly killed him.
 ''One day I bought $3,000 in crack and went to a hotel room,'' he said. ''I woke up in the hospital, and a doctor said: 'A.A. is not going to help you, you're too far gone. But I know a place in Corona that will teach you discipline.'''
 ''He told me, 'You have insurance, you can go a lot of places,'' said Bert, who said he now he lives upstairs at the center, in a small room with five other men, and can leave to see friends. ''But if you don't go here, you're going to die.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a drug rehabilitation center for Hispanic immigrants in Queens misstated the age of Nelson Pavon, a patient. He is 43, not 31.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marcelo S., left, and Nelson Pavon in the basement sleeping quarters of Grupo Jovenes in Corona, Queens, a rehabilitation center that intentionally shuns luxury. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Alfonso Olsen, 34, talks about his struggles with drugs with other patients at Grupo Jovenes, a rehabilitation center for drug and alcohol abusers. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); HEROIN (78%); MASSAGE SERVICES (68%); DEPORTATION (66%); HOSPITALS (62%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Hispanic-Americans; Alcohol Abuse

ORGANIZATION: Grupo Jovenes New York

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (53%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



488 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua, 25 Years After the Revolution, Is Still Struggling

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago this week, the Sandinista Front for National Liberation set up a revolutionary government in Nicaragua. For the next 11 years, an impoverished country of fewer than three million people became an American obsession -- a beacon of hope for some on the left, a communist outpost two days' drive from Texas for Ronald Reagan, who sponsored a counterrevolutionary war that failed militarily but led to the revolution's collapse in 1990.
 This week, Nicaraguans are once again assessing the Sandinista era. The revolution failed to improve life for a majority of Nicaraguans because of the war, but also because it brought the seeds of its own doom. The same judgment of failure applies to the conservative governments Nicaragua has had since then. 
 The debate about why the revolution had soured was already going on when I moved to Nicaragua as a reporter in 1985. Sandinismo was six years old and the war three. Some of the revolution's commandants were hard-line Leninists, but some, like Luis Carrion Cruz, had joined out of a commitment to the poor. Under Anastasio Somoza, most children under 5 were malnourished. In some parts illiteracy reached 90 percent. I spoke often to Mr. Carrion, who came from a wealthy family and was educated in the United States. He returned to Nicaragua, became a Christian Marxist and joined the Sandinistas because he detested brutality and inequality.
 Then, as vice minister of the interior and later as economy minister, he found himself in charge of meting out first repression and then draconian capitalism. Mr. Carrion did not hesitate to point out the ironies of his career, but called them necessary measures against the aggression of the United States. He said Washington's intolerance of leftism in Latin America doomed all revolutions to the same fate as Nicaragua's.
 The Sandinistas promoted literacy, vaccinations, land reform. But soon the midnight knock on the door and the kind of jailings they had protested under Mr. Somoza once again became policy. Then came austerity measures indistinguishable from those of Augusto Pinochet's Chile.
 By the late 1980's, the revolution was benefiting mainly the rich. Their generators and water tanks exempted them from the ubiquitous electricity and water cuts. Sandinista policy crippled their businesses, some vital to the country, but a modest bank account in Miami could still finance an opulent lifestyle.
 Meanwhile, by 1989, a Nicaraguan worker earned the equivalent of $15 a month, enough to buy beans and rice for one person. ''I'm doing super,'' Roberto Callejas, a wealthy farmer, told me in 1987. His sons, who had fled to Miami, were now thinking of coming back. ''But my servants only want to talk to me about getting out,'' he said.
 The contras' war and the American blockage of international loans wrecked the economy and diverted what money there was from schoolbooks to guns. Nicaragua, one of the world's poorest countries, was attacked by a superpower, and the Sandinistas responded with repression.
 But the war was not entirely to blame. Brought to power by a guerrilla insurrection, the Sandinistas arrived with a siege mentality that confused opposition with betrayal and revenge with justice. Followers of Mr. Somoza went before kangaroo courts. Newspaper reports on protests were censored. This was before Mr. Reagan ordered covert aid for the contras in December 1981.
 The Sandinistas' determination to lower the price of food meant that farmers could buy beans more cheaply than growing them. So they didn't grow them, leading to a rationing system that created corruption and speculation. Capital and skilled people emigrated. Phrases like the ''workers' state'' raised expectations of higher pay and farm credits that the revolution could not afford. The Sandinistas quickly outlawed strikes and peasants' land invasions. All Latin American revolutions will end up like ours, Mr. Carrion had said, and he was right, although for a larger reason than he believed. 
 The Sandinistas have been gone since 1990. But three-quarters of the population lives on less than $2 a day, and inequality has soared. More than a third of school-age children do not attend school. The government spends $19 per person annually on education today -- half of what the Sandinistas spent when I lived there. Land reform, which had created Latin America's most egalitarian pattern of ownership, has been eroded -- in part because small holders cannot get credit and are forced to sell.
 Nicaragua depends on the whims of the world coffee market and the hurricane season, and both have been cruel. The poor state of health, education and political institutions all undermine the economy. But the Sandinistas had all these problems, while the successor governments have not suffered from war, American vetoes of their international loans and capital flight. They have also not cared about the poor.
 The revolution left one ironic legacy. In 1990, President Daniel Ortega lost a landslide election to Violeta Chamorro and recognized his defeat, permitting for the first time in Nicaragua's history the bourgeois democracy the Sandinistas so scorned. Nicaragua now has no internal spies or censorship. It has regular, meaningful elections. But most Nicaraguans are still waiting for their revolution. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHILDREN (52%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



489 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: A Former Power in Nassau Pleads Guilty to Reduced Charges

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., July 23 

 BODY:
Peter T. Sylver, once a swiftly rising star in Nassau County government, pleaded guilty on Friday to reduced charges, admitting he had billed personal expenses to the county, coerced an employee to do political work and harassed someone in a county car.
 In return for his admission of guilt, prosecutors reduced the severity of the misdemeanors and dropped a felony charge that Mr. Sylver, 35, the former deputy executive for economic development, had filed false documents for reimbursement of a trip to London and other unauthorized expenses on his county credit card totaling almost $4,700. 
 Although the charges to which he pleaded guilty carry possible jail time of up to two years and 15 days, Judge Victor M. Ort of Nassau County Court, who accepted Mr. Sylver's plea, said he was not likely to sentence him to any jail time at a hearing in September. Mr. Sylver, who has paid some restitution, agreed to pay $1,272.68, the balance of what prosecutors said the county is owed, and he could also be fined several thousand dollars for the misdemeanors.
 ''The right result was reached,'' said Colin F. O'Donnell, the assistant district attorney who prosecuted Mr. Sylver. ''We held a public official accountable for his actions and for abuse of his office.'' 
 Outside the Nassau County courts complex, Mr. Sylver's lawyer, Stephen Worth, said his client had been the target of a politically motivated campaign. ''The plea agreement speaks for itself,'' Mr. Worth said. ''It's a fair question to ask if this wasn't all a waste of the county's time and money.'' 
 Standing next to his lawyer, Mr. Sylver, who has a law degree and is now studying theology at a school he would not reveal, was embraced by a friend and said only, ''I'm going to continue with God.''
 Mr. O'Donnell said later that his office had treated the case ''like any other case that would have these charges.''
 The plea by Mr. Sylver, 35, ends the county's criminal inquiry into his conduct as a deputy executive, a position he held under County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi until resigning last November under fire. But the county is still embroiled in a tangle of civil lawsuits and investigations stemming from allegations of improper spending in several agencies under Mr. Sylver's watch, including an order from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to repay nearly $1.2 million that federal officials say was improperly spent. 
 In a brief statement released through aides, Mr. Suozzi said the plea ended a difficult period for the county.
 The misdemeanors Mr. Sylver pleaded guilty to Friday were slightly less severe than the original charges brought against him two weeks ago. Prosecutors said that over a four-month period in 2003, he accumulated $4,700 in charges on a county credit card. And on Nov. 4, 2003, he coerced an aide to accompany him to polling places on a holiday. 
 A misdemeanor charge of sexual harassment, involving an accusation that he subjected a woman to uninvited physical contact in his county car parked at county government headquarters on Aug. 20, 2003, was reduced to a noncriminal harassment violation in the second degree. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (93%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FELONIES (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LITIGATION (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ETHICS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); RELIGION (62%); CITIES (50%) Ethics; Plea Bargaining

PERSON: Michelle O'Donnell; Peter Sylver

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



490 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: VW's Decline in Earnings Isn't as Deep as Expected

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, July 23 

 BODY:
Volkswagen, Europe's largest carmaker, far exceeded analysts' expectations during the second quarter, but still posted a 9 percent drop in its quarterly profit on Friday. It also cut its 2004 earnings target amid rising oil prices and weak demand in the United States, Germany and China.
 Net income fell to 357 million euros ($438 million), or 0.91 euro a share, from 394 million euros, or 1.02 euros a share, a year earlier, Volkswagen said. Profit beat the median estimate of 202 million euros from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Revenue rose 8.4 percent, to 24 billion euros, from 22.1 billion euros as vehicle sales rose 5.9 percent. 
 ''Unit sales and cash flow were better than we were expecting,'' said Martin Sachsenmaier, who manages about 500 million euros at Frankfurt Trust and holds Volkswagen shares. ''A profit warning isn't positive, but at least it wasn't as bad as some had expected.''
 Bernd Pischetsrieder, chief executive of Volkswagen, had aimed to beat last year's earnings before interest, tax and one-time items of 2.5 billion euros. On a conference call with analysts, he cut the 2004 target by one-quarter to 1.9 billion euros in the ''worst case'' because of rebates on cars, an increase in oil prices and spending on reorganization.
 Shares of Volkswagen rose 1.23 percent, to 32.98 euros in Frankfurt. The stock is down 24 percent this year, the second-worst performance on Germany's benchmark DAX index.
 Volkswagen is not alone in struggling to raise profit amid a price war in Europe. Fiat stock and bond prices fell Tuesday after La Repubblica published a report that the company would not reach a target of breaking even this year. General Motors, the world's largest automaker, said last month that its European unit would have a loss this year, falling short of a plan to earn as much as $100 million.
 Volkswagen now expects 2004 car sales in Germany, Europe's biggest economy and Volkswagen's largest vehicle market, to match the 2003 figure of 3.24 million units rather than rising 3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BONDS (66%); BOND MARKETS (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%) Company Reports ; Automobiles ; Sales

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



491 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ELECTIONEERING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: In Pennsylvania, a Parallel Campaign Rolls On, Neither Neutral Nor Partisan

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: UPPER DUBLIN, Pa. 

 BODY:
This summer, Maryann Chernysh is taking afternoons off from her job as a Philadelphia bill collector in the hopes of defeating George W. Bush and sending John Kerry to the White House. A recent recruit in an electioneering project that is as potentially powerful as it is controversial, Ms. Chernysh is going door to door in swing neighborhoods like this one, encouraging like-minded citizens to vote, attend rallies and even volunteer. 
 It is part of a huge and well-financed gloves-off shadow campaign, officially separate from the Democratic Party but whose booster effect could provide the margin of victory for Senator Kerry in a close presidential election. Canvassers like Ms. Chernysh, paid for and organized by a coalition of labor unions and liberal groups, are now on the ground in all swing states, working hard, if indirectly, to defeat President Bush.
 But there is a catch. In order to comply with the requirements of campaign finance laws, the type of group Ms. Chernysh represents, which is called a 527 committee, cannot coordinate with the parties or campaigns. And they cannot specifically urge people to vote for Mr. Kerry or against Mr. Bush because they cannot use their unlimited contributions, or soft money, to expressly support or oppose a federal candidate, whether through advertising or canvassing. 
 So when Ms. Chernysh knocked on the door of Timothy Flynn, a wavering Republican, she moved like a stealth bomber on a covert mission: ''Hi, are you Timothy Flynn? We're a nonprofit group here to check on voter registration.'' And from there: ''Are you committed to a candidate yet?'' and ''What issues are important to you this year?'' 
 ''I'm not sure who I'll vote for, but education and taxes are my issues,'' Mr. Flynn, a food service manager at a military prep school, said as he moved out onto a leafy terrace on Audubon Drive in this suburb north of Philadelphia. 
 ''But you do plan to vote?'' Ms. Chernysh asked, scribbling information as she chatted.
 ''Definitely, but I'm not real happy with the current administration, and I'm leaning towards Kerry,'' offered Mr. Flynn, talking to himself as much as anyone else. Seeing an opening, Ms. Chernysh deftly guided the exchange off neutral turf.
 ''Actually, our group is trying to get Bush out of office,'' she admitted -- stating the group's goal but not explicitly telling Mr. Flynn whom to vote for. 
 ''But is Kerry really the best man for the job?'' he asked.
 ''We're not supporting either candidate,'' she said. ''But can I send you information about our local events?'' 
 Mr. Flynn gave both his phone number and e-mail address. She offered him a flier that said, ''While cutting our health care, George Bush is spending billions of dollars rebuilding Iraq.''
 In the next few days, Mr. Flynn would receive a follow-up call from America Coming Together, or ACT, the progressive group sponsoring the canvassing, to softly encourage his defection. 
 Of course, in this highly polarized moment in American history, both sides are desperately seeking to influence each and every vote, while staying within the often-untested parameters of new campaign laws. ''Nonpartisan'' Democratic-based efforts are backed by unions and young college graduates. Those with Republican leanings are tapping into corporations and churches. 
 The deployment is particularly intense in swing states like Pennsylvania, which has 21 electoral votes, and which the Democrats won by just 4 percentage points in 2000. Mr. Bush has visited the state dozens of times in recent months. Out-of-state members of the Service Employees International Union are swarming to Pennsylvania to take up residence for the next four months, joining local people like Ms. Chernysh as canvassers. 
 ''I came because this is a swing state and needs help,'' said Natalie Williams, a retired nurse from New York City, beginning her first day of canvassing here. ''Staying in New York, I couldn't make a difference.'' 
 Mrs. Williams's union, Local 1199 of Service Employees International, provides housing and makes up lost pay for members who volunteer to move to swing states like Pennsylvania. There will be 250 in Pennsylvania by October. They have teamed with organizers from America Votes and ACT, liberal groups financed by wealthy Democrats like George Soros. The groups direct the canvassers to certain homes, arming them with facts (''96,000 jobs have been lost in Pennsylvania since George Bush took office'') and hand-held computers filled with voter-registration data.
 These 527 committees, named for a section of the tax code, have become far more influential as a result of the 2002 campaign finance law that prohibited political parties themselves from accepting huge, soft-money donations.
 Committee leaders say their efforts are completely permissible because they are focused on issues rather than on Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry. And although the Republican Party has officially challenged the legality of these groups, so far the commission has allowed them to operate. Indeed, the Republicans are now creating their own 527's. But advocates of campaign finance reform insist that the activity is at least unethical and often illegal.
 ''I can't imagine a more contradictory concept: that the group is doing nonpartisan voter registration activity and that its purpose is to defeat George Bush, which is its overriding goal,'' said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, which has filed two unsuccessful complaints against America Coming Together with the election commission.
 Officials and canvassers say they are mindful of the legal requirements that the groups remain nonpartisan and have no contact with the Kerry campaign.
 ''You don't have to mention the candidates' names,'' said Denise Alligretti, a union organizer from New York's 1199, who said she moved with her 14-year-old daughter to Pennsylvania for the year because she was upset by the 2000 election. ''You talk about issues and people get it.''
 But they are open about their agenda. Rebecca Kirszner, Pennsylvania communications director for America Coming Together, said, ''Our three main goals are: one, to get people involved in the political process; two, to elect progressive officials up and down the ticket; and three, to send George Bush back to Crawford, Texas.'' Ms. Kirszner sat across from a poster of Mr. Bush reflecting the dominant view of those working in the office: ''Vote for Me! I'm Obedient and Clueless.'' And underneath: ''Paid for by the Committee to Re-elect Ashcroft, Cheney and Rumsfeld.''
 Ethel Chernow, 79, was at first suspicious when an ACT canvasser, Sue Casey, turned up at her door. Ms. Chernow refused to tell Ms. Casey who she had voted for in 2000. She said that ''honesty,'' health care and the economy were, for her, the most important issues. 
 ''I oppose the war,'' Ms. Chernow said as she settled into a white plastic chair on her porch. She read Ms. Casey's light-blue polo shirt, which bore an embroidered American flag with the letters ACT emblazoned on it. ''ACT,'' Ms. Chernow said. ''Is that a Bush thing?'' 
 Ms. Casey, who worked as a receptionist for her father until this summer, sensed her opening. ''No, we are not with a party,'' she said. ''We are for change and progressive candidates. Do you realize that Pennsylvania has lost 96,000 jobs under Bush?''
 ''Terrible!'' Ms. Chernow said. ''And when I see those kids coming home from the war limbless, it is just so emotional.''
 ''Yes,'' Ms. Casey said. ''They are kids. I'm only 26 and they even look young to me.''
 ''Actually, I'm voting for Kerry! It's great that you're doing this work, to schlep us out of this mess.''
 Answered Ms. Casey: ''Exactly!''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Natalie Williams, a retired nurse from New York City, canvassed this month in Upper Dublin, Pa., on behalf of America Coming Together, a new type of political group that hopes to turn out a pro-Democratic vote. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



492 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: PAKISTAN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: United States Needs to Take a Stand With Pakistan, 9/11 Panel's Report Says

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS; David Rhode contributed reporting from Pakistan to this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 23 

 BODY:
The 9/11 commission's report lends unusual attention to Pakistan, saying that the governments in Islamabad and Washington need to make ''hard choices'' if they are to make progress in the fight against Islamist terrorism.
 The commission recommended that the United States end a lengthy period of ambivalence and mistrust toward Pakistan and commit itself to a period of sustained aid, including military assistance and support for that country's public education system as a counterweight to religious schools that foster extremism.
 But that American support should come only if the government of Gen. Pervez Musharraf proves that he stands for ''enlightened moderation'' and confronts Islamic extremists in Pakistan, curbs nuclear proliferation and paves the way for a return to democracy, the commission said. 
 Pakistani officials praised the report as an endorsement of their policies. ''Quite obviously there are things that are critical,'' said a close aide to General Musharraf. But, he added, ''when it comes to recommendations, it says that this is the one government that is the best hope.''
 Still, the commission was hardly glowing in its descriptions of Pakistan. 
 Pakistan is the first country listed by American and foreign government officials, the commission report said, when asked: ''If you were a terrorist leader today, where would you locate your base?''
 For the panel members, Pakistan is a problem and a solution. And at this moment, it is the site of the fiercest battles against international terrorists. 
 ''It is hard to overstate the importance of Pakistan in the struggle against Islamist extremism,'' the report said. ''Within Pakistan's borders are 150 million Muslims, scores of Al Qaeda terrorists, many Taliban fighters, and perhaps Osama bin Laden. Pakistan possesses nuclear weapons and has come frighteningly close to war with nuclear-armed India over the disputed territory of Kashmir.''
 The commission recommended that the United States overcome a legacy in which the two countries have been ''allies of convenience'' and decide definitively whether to back General Musharraf.
 That American support would include sustaining current levels of humanitarian aid for years and developing a comprehensive approach to provide military aid and support for a better education system, to promote economic opportunity and counteract the religious schools that to produce militants.
 Such backing cannot come too soon for General Musharraf, who finds himself increasingly boxed in on the domestic political front. On one side, Islamic militants with links to Al Qaeda are trying to kill him; he narrowly escaped two assassination attempts last December. On the other, the country's liberal elite are expressing growing disappointment with the failure of the general, and his American backers, to build up the strong government institutions that they say will stabilize the country in the long term.
 Pakistani political analysts accuse the general of sometimes enacting policies that work at cross-purposes. They say that on one hand, he is mounting aggressive efforts to pursue Qaeda members hiding along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. But on the other, they say, General Musharraf has held back on cracking down on former Taliban and Islamic militants waging an insurgency in the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir, the disputed territory Pakistan and India have fought two wars over. Analysts say Pakistan must crack down on all militancy in the country. 
 On terrorism, the report noted, Pakistan nurtured the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. The Pakistani Army and intelligence services, in particular, revealed an ambivalence toward confronting Islamic extremists and struggled to maintain good relations with the Taliban until September 2001, the report said.
 On proliferation, Pakistan's record was equally problematic, the report said. The government, which claims not to trade in nuclear technology, insisted that it was unaware of the smuggling efforts of one of its most prominent citizens, A.Q. Khan, who is credited with making Pakistan a nuclear power.
 Lastly, Pakistan has done little to resume democratic rule at the national level, the report said. 
 Such perceived shortcomings have been at the root of several difficult compromises the Bush administration has made, and which continue to this day. For example, despite strong indications that the Pakistani government knew of Mr. Khan's activities, the administration took General Musharraf at his word.
 Ambivalence has long been a characteristic of United States-Pakistani relations, and the report detailed how the nations' alliance after Moscow's 1980 invasion of Afghanistan unraveled after the Soviets withdrew and was replaced by numerous American sanctions in the 1990's over Pakistan's development of nuclear weapons. 
 The report found that throughout much of the 90's, when the bin Laden threat intensified, American policy planners were primarily focused on the prospect of a South Asian war, and they did not challenge Pakistan on Afghanistan and Al Qaeda.
 The relationship was steeped in suspicion. In 1998, the Clinton administration fired cruise missiles on bin Laden camps in Afghanistan, in retaliation for the bombings of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. No terrorist leaders were killed. Officials in Washington speculated that one or more Pakistani officials might have tipped off the Taliban or Al Qaeda, the report said.
 Until Sept. 11, 2001, policy discussions in the Clinton and Bush administrations were largely about whether to impose new sanctions or to ease sanctions, the commission found.
 Enlisting the cooperation of General Musharraf beyond lip service was a difficult task until the Qaeda attacks, according to the report.
 But two days after the attacks, top Bush administration officials seeking an overarching antiterror strategy concluded that if Pakistan did not help the United States, it could fall in the sights of the American military. At the same time, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage met with the Pakistani ambassador and urged several concrete steps -- including stopping Qaeda operatives at its border, cooperating on intelligence and cutting off all shipments of fuel to the Taliban.
 Pakistan made its decision swiftly. At a National Security Council meeting that afternoon, ''Secretary of State Colin Powell announced that President Musharraf had agreed to every U.S. request for support in the war on terrorism,'' the report said. Mr. Bush then ordered the Pentagon to draw up a military plan to strike the Taliban. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ASSASSINATION (70%); POLITICS (63%) United States International Relations; Terrorism; Foreign Aid; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Education and Schools; Islam; Atomic Weapons; Politics and Government

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) Christopher Marquis; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (79%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



493 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Dow Drops Below 10,000 In a Continuing Slump
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed below 10,000 for the first time since mid-May and the Nasdaq composite index dropped to its lowest level since October as earnings disappointments and concerns about the economy undermined investor confidence. The market has fallen about 4 percent in the last five weeks, and there is little optimism for a rally. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

From TV to Campaign Trail
 Jerry Springer, master of outrageous syndicated television, is flirting with a run for governor in Ohio in 2006, when the race to replace Bob Taft will be wide open. PAGE A7
 As police officers patrolled nearby, a celebration marked the reopening of a rebuilt bridge in Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina, that was destroyed during ethnic fighting in 1993. The original bridge was built in 1566. PAGE A3

COMING ON SUNDAY

Conventiontown
 A special section celebrates the New Boston, where politics has always been a pastime but where no national party convention has taken place before.

New Safeguards at Archives
 Samuel R. Berger's removal of papers from the National Archives prompted new security measures, government officials said. PAGE A7

Armstrong Chases a Rival
 Lance Armstrong kept his lead in the Tour de France but took a detour on what could have been an easy day to settle a score with a low-ranked rider. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1


Restored Bridge Gives Sense of Peace in Bosnia

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Danilo Krstanovic/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (71%); GOVERNORS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



494 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Market Slide Leaves Dow Below 10,000

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed below 10,000 yesterday for the first time since mid-May and the Nasdaq composite index dropped to its lowest level since October as earnings disappointments and concerns about the economy undermined investor confidence.
 It is not clear what will stop what is now a five-week slide, with the overall market down about 4 percent. Earnings growth is expected to be robust, but slower, in the second half of the year and the market received no boost from the optimistic economic outlook laid out this week by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. 
 The Dow fell 0.9 percent yesterday and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 1 percent. Both are perilously close to their lows for the year, with the S.&P. 500 just 2 points away. The Nasdaq, which fell 2.1 percent, had already reached a new 2004 low on Wednesday and is now down 7.7 percent for the year. 
 ''There are fears that the expansion is faltering and fears that inflation is accelerating,'' said Kevin Bannon, the chief investment officer of the Bank of New York. ''There is an absence of any real strong consensus on the outlook.''
 Some analysts are suggesting that the stock market will just have to fall further before stocks will look cheap enough again to investors troubled by everything from inflation to terrorism.
 Among the companies reporting disconcerting profit news was Microsoft. Despite strong earnings, Microsoft warned after the market closed Thursday that sales growth in the year ahead would be 5 percent or less. Although the company has a history of making very conservative forecasts, its stock dropped 3.3 percent, giving back all the gains after its announcement Tuesday that it would pay a one-time dividend of $3 a share. 
 Coca-Cola, which also reported late Thursday, beat Wall Street earnings forecasts by 2 cents a share but said that global sales growth climbed just 1 percent, well below the company's 5 percent goal, because demand in the United States was weak. Its stock plunged 7.8 percent. 
 The stock market has been in the doldrums since February despite the rebound of the economy and strong corporate earnings over all. Investors seem to be focusing on what could go wrong rather than what is going right.
 The slowdown of the economy in June, which Mr. Greenspan said this week was temporary, is more on the minds of investors than the growth of more than 3.5 percent so far this year. And the threat of higher inflation, which Mr. Greenspan said the Fed would step in quickly to quell, seems to obscure the fact that corporate earnings increased 27.5 percent in the first quarter and are forecast to rise 24 percent for the second quarter.
 ''People have lost their focus on the strong economy and on the good earnings,'' said Andrew Engel, senior research analyst at the Leuthold Group, a money management and research firm in Minneapolis. ''Terror is the overwhelming concern and that is causing investors to be less positive on the market.''
 At the close, the Dow was down 88.11 points, to 9,962.22, its first close below 10,000 since May 24. The Dow is now off 4.7 percent for the year. The S.&P. 500 fell 10.64 points, to 1,086.20, and is off 2.3 percent for the year. The Nasdaq dropped 39.97 points, to 1,849.09. That is its lowest close since Oct. 1, 2003.
 For the week, the Dow was down 1.8 percent and has fallen 4.4 percent in the last five weeks. The S.&P. 500, which dropped 1.4 percent, is down 4.3 percent over the period. The Nasdaq, off 1.8 percent, has fallen 6.9 percent. 
 Investor apathy has meant many stocks have suffered, even when they have reported better-than-expected news. AT&T's stock dropped 0.6 percent on Thursday, and 1.5 percent more yesterday, after it announced an 80 percent drop in earnings, although that decline was less than the 90 percent expected by analysts.
 The news from the oil market is not going to help rebuild investor confidence. The price of a barrel of crude oil for September delivery rose 35 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $41.71 yesterday and is just shy of its June high of $42.33 a barrel. 
 In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 4/32, to 102 16/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 4.43 percent, from 4.45 percent.
 In the currency markets, the dollar jumped 1.2 percent against the euro. The euro traded at $1.2104, down from $1.2250 on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: It was the end of a long day and a long week on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. (Photo by David Karp/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Back Below 10,000''Since rising well above 10,000 last year, the Dow has lost momentum.Graph tracks daily closes of the Dow since August 2003.Yesterday's close: 9,962.22(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); TERRORISM (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Currency; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



495 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Fire and Police Plan to Picket G.O.P. Events

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The presidents of New York City's police and firefighter unions sought to turn up the heat on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in their contract battle by threatening yesterday to picket various subsidiary events during the Republican National Convention next month. 
 Borrowing a tactic from Boston's police union, New York's police and firefighters warned that if the unions do not reach a contract before the convention begins, they might picket parties and receptions for Republican state delegations.
 Stephen J. Cassidy, the president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, said, ''We intend to make our case and to highlight the lack of respect that the mayor has for the firefighters and cops, and if we have to picket the parties that the mayor holds to do that, we will.''
 The police and firefighters denied that their threat to picket various Republican parties would violate a pledge by the city's Central Labor Council not to disrupt the convention, a pledge aimed at attracting the convention and its economic benefits. 
 Al O'Leary, a spokesman for the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said, ''Picketing a party at the Marriott Marquis has nothing to do with Madison Square Garden,'' which will house the Republican convention. 
 Unions leaders said they would engage in informational picketing over the next few weeks, without urging people not to cross the lines. But they said their effort might escalate into full-fledged picket lines that they ask others to honor.
 The unions hope that pressuring Mr. Bloomberg before the convention will cause him to increase his wage offer. Explaining the picketing plans, Patrick J. Lynch, the P.B.A.'s president, said, ''We have a Republican administration in the White House, Statehouse and City Hall, and we need the White House and Statehouse to know that the mayor is not treating us fairly.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, on his weekly radio program on WABC with John Gambling, ridiculed the union leaders yesterday morning. ''I love it -- they're yelling and screaming they're going to pressure the Republican Party to give us more money so they'll get raises,'' he said. ''No. 1, the administration doesn't give money, it's Congress. No. 2, there isn't a chance in a zillion that Congress is going to vote monies for New York City unions. Let's get serious here.''
 Delegates to the Democratic National Convention, which begins in Boston on Monday, have been thrown off balance by the plans of Boston's police union to picket the welcoming parties being held this Sunday for 30 state delegations. With many Democrats unwilling to cross picket lines, the Michigan and Ohio delegations have canceled their welcoming parties.
 Typically less sympathetic to labor, Republicans are generally more willing to cross picket lines. But labor leaders said it would be awkward for Republican delegates to cross picket lines set up by New York's firefighters and police -- the workers hailed for their heroism after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has urged the police, firefighters and teachers to accept the same amount accepted by the largest municipal union, District Council 37: a 5 percent raise over three years. But they have picketed and distributed fliers this week outside Madison Square Garden, insisting that a 5 percent raise is inadequate. 
 Mr. Bloomberg restated his position that if the unions want more than the 5 percent, they should agree to money-saving measures to finance larger raises.
 ''Let's change leadership of these unions, and put in people who care about the union members, and sit down and try to find a way to generate productivity savings so that we can pay our municipal workers more,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 The police and fire unions -- both without a contract for two years -- held a news conference yesterday outside the Garden, announcing that they have rented two trucks to crisscross the city, carrying mobile billboards that criticize the mayor. 
 One billboard reads: ''Billionaire Bloomberg says pay for your own raises. Police and Firefighters pay every day . . . in blood.'' Both billboards urge New Yorkers to call 311 to urge the mayor to give the police and firefighters ''a real raise.''
 Mr. Bloomberg lambasted the union leaders for organizing the protests. ''You've got to remember that a lot of this is not driven by what the union members want,'' he said on his radio program. ''It's driven by the union leaders who are running for re-election all the time, and they've got to show that they're stronger than everybody else. And so they go out there and yell and scream.'' Saying the city could not afford the raises the police, firefighters and teachers sought, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''We have enormous deficits staring us in the face.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, who won re-election in April with 88 percent of the vote, criticized Mr. Bloomberg's remarks. ''I find it puzzling that when we exercise some of the limited rights we have, such as the right to protest, the mayor becomes very nasty and vituperative,'' she said. ''There is an easy way to cure this, and that is get to the bargaining table and to bargain in good faith, instead of sounding like a broken record to accept the same contract as D.C. 37.''
 Several officials with the police and firefighters noted that the Boston Police Patrolmen's Association, after threatening for weeks to picket various events during the Democratic convention, received a 14.5 percent raise over four years through an arbitrator's decision on Thursday.
 ''We're green with envy,'' said Mr. O'Leary, the P.B.A. spokesman. His union wants an arbitrator to render a decision to resolve its contract dispute. 
 With pay levels higher in several suburbs, the union insists that the mayor's offer is far too low to resolve the problems the city faces in retaining and recruiting police officers.
 Responding to the unions' threats to picket various convention activities, Jordan Barowitz, a City Hall spokesman, said: ''The hard-working members of the Police and Fire Departments would be better served by union leaders who had the guts to negotiate a contract at the bargaining table instead of engaging in lame theatrics.''
 Paul Elliott, a spokesman for the New York City Host Committee, said: ''The Republican convention is creating jobs and boosting wages for working people at what is a usually slow time in the city's economy. Labor was and remains the city's partner in planning for the Republican convention.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen J. Cassidy, center, and Patrick J. Lynch, president of the firefighters and police officers' unions, respectively, announced plans yesterday to picket some side events of the Republican National Convention. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Police; Fires and Firefighters; Conventions, National (US); Picketing; Wages and Salaries; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Steven Greenhouse; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



496 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urges Blacks to Reconsider Allegiance to Democratic Party

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 23 

 BODY:
President Bush directly confronted his problems with black voters on Friday, challenging them to rethink their long allegiance to the Democratic Party and urging African-Americans to take another look at his record on the economy, education, social welfare programs and foreign policy.
 Acknowledging that his party ''has got a lot of work to do'' before it can win over a group that has voted overwhelmingly for Democrats in the past and that polls show intends to do so again, Mr. Bush suggested that there was discontent among African-Americans with Democrats. Republicans, he said, represent a viable and attractive alternative.
 ''Does the Democratic party take African-American voters for granted?'' Mr. Bush asked in a speech here to the National Urban League, facing an audience that included prominent black Democrats like the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Al Sharpton. 
 ''I know plenty of politicians assume they have your vote,'' Mr. Bush said. ''But do they earn it and do they deserve it? Is it a good thing for the African-American community to be represented mainly by one political party? That's a legitimate question. How is it possible to gain political leverage if the party is never forced to compete?''
 Mr. Bush's appearance here before the National Urban League was hastily scheduled by the White House last week after the president turned down an invitation to speak to the annual convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Mr. Bush has said he declined because of hostility expressed toward him by N.A.A.C.P. leaders. 
 Mr. Bush's address came a day after Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, came here to speak to the same group, a predominantly black civil rights organization. Mr. Bush got a courteous welcome, and he tried to defuse what was obviously a tense atmosphere with humor. But the applause was tepid through much of his address.
 Mr. Bush prodded the audience to consider whether conservative ideas, like tax cuts, school vouchers and giving religious institutions greater freedom to use federal money for social welfare programs, could produce better results for black Americans than have the liberal approaches that largely dominated social policy debates for decades.
 ''Does blocking the faith-based initiative help neighborhoods where the only social service provider could be a church?'' Mr. Bush asked. ''Does the status quo in education really, really help the children of this country? Does class warfare, has class warfare or higher taxes ever created decent jobs in the inner city?''
 Saying he had proved himself committed to diversity, he ran through a list of black men and women in his administration, including Secretary of State Colin L. Powell; Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser; Rod Paige, the education secretary; Alphonso R. Jackson, the secretary of housing and urban development; and Kay James, the director of the Office of Personnel Management. 
 He also unveiled a plan under which the government would assist the Urban League and other groups in providing advice to minority-owned small businesses.
 ''I'm here to ask for your vote,'' Mr. Bush said, grabbing the audience's attention toward the end of his 39-minute speech. ''No, I know, I know, I know. The Republican party has got a lot of work to do. I understand that.
 ''You didn't need to nod your head that hard, Jesse,'' Mr. Bush added with a smile, looking at Mr. Jackson, sitting in front of him, prompting applause and laughter from the more than 1,000 people in a hotel ballroom.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said Mr. Bush had an abysmal record on cities and the people who live in them.
 ''If President Bush knew the answers to the questions he posed today, he wouldn't have asked them,'' said Phil Singer, a spokesman for Mr. Kerry. ''The fact is that, on issue after issue, his administration has actively stood in the way of creating opportunities for African-Americans and other minorities. It takes more than a speech to open the door to the American dream.'' 
 Mr. Bush received about 8 percent of the black vote in 2000, according to exit polls, and his advisers are seeking to improve that performance as part of efforts to win more minority voters generally and promote a fundamental realignment of the electorate in the favor of Republicans. 
 But a poll released this week showed Mr. Bush making little progress. The poll, conducted by CBS News for BET, the black television network, found that 79 percent of African-American voters planned to support Mr. Kerry and 10 percent backed Mr. Bush. Asked whether Mr. Bush had legitimately won the 2000 election, 11 percent of African-American voters said yes, reflecting anger about reports that African-Americans had been kept from voting in 2000 in Florida and other states.
 Mr. Bush emphasized a point of vulnerability for Democrats: a lack of strong enthusiasm in polls of African-American voters for Mr. Kerry and questions raised by some civil rights leaders about how well Democrats are representing black people.
 Mr. Bush quoted a line he said was used by Charlie Gaines, a black Republican politician from Chicago who died in 2000, to describe the ambivalence of African-American voters toward Democrats and their reluctance so far to embrace Republicans: ''Blacks are gagging on the donkey but not yet ready to swallow the elephant.''
 Some members of the audience, including people who said they would never vote for Mr. Bush, said afterward that the idea that Democrats take African-American voters for granted resonated with them.
 ''Obviously he is not very popular among African-Americans,'' said Stephen Beard, a lawyer from Chicago, referring to Mr. Bush. ''But I think he asked some very important questions about how well served the African-American community is by the Democratic Party.''
 Kenneth Harris, the pastor of the Detroit Baptist Temple, said he was not terribly enthusiastic about Mr. Kerry. But he said he was infuriated by Mr. Bush. 
 ''We have problems with both parties,'' he said. ''I don't think the Democrats are offering anything creative. But I think the policies of the Bush administration have been intentionally aimed at not really helping us. The real benefits of their policies are for those who have to maintain the status quo at the expense of those who are have-nots.''
 Mr. Jackson criticized Mr. Bush and dismissed any possibility that the president would win increased support among black voters. Describing Mr. Bush's speech, Mr. Jackson said, ''he comes to talk to, not to talk with.''
 During the speech, Mr. Bush noted Mr. Sharpton's presence in the audience, complimented him on having run for president and said it was not easy.
 Mr. Sharpton shot back, ''It's not over.'' 

In His Own Words
PRESIDENT BUSH

Remarks yesterday to the National Urban League in Detroit.
 ''I believe you've got to earn the vote and seek it. I think you've got to go to people and say, 'This is my heart, this is what I believe, and I'd like your help.' And as I do, I'm going to ask African-American voters to consider some questions.
 Does the Democratic Party take African-American voters for granted? It's a fair question. I know plenty of politicians assume they have your vote. But do they earn it and do they deserve it? Is it a good thing for the African-American community to be represented mainly by one political party? That's a legitimate question. How is it possible to gain political leverage if the party is never forced to compete? Have the traditional solutions of the Democratic Party truly served the African-American community?
 That's what I hope people ask when they go to the community centers and places, as we all should do our duty and vote. People need to be asking these very serious questions.
 Does blocking the faith-based initiative help neighborhoods where the only social-service provider could be a church? Does the status quo in education really, really help the children of this country? Does class warfare -- has class warfare or higher taxes ever created decent jobs in the inner city? Are you satisfied with the same answers on crime, excuses for drugs and blindness to the problem of the family? '' 


CORRECTION-DATE: July 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about President Bush's appearance before the National Urban League in Detroit misstated the name he used for the rival party. Mr. Bush said, ''Does the Democrat party take African-American voters for granted?'' -- not ''Democratic.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson with President Bush yesterday after Mr. Bush spoke to the National Urban League. (Photo by Pablo Martinez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CITY LIFE (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); RELIGION (65%); TAX LAW (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Election Issues; United States Economy; Education and Schools; Welfare (US); United States International Relations; Taxation; Presidential Election of 2004; Vouchers

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (93%) National Urban League

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (78%); JESSE JACKSON (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); AL SHARPTON (52%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



497 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Offer to Buy Into Yukos May Be Spurned

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and ERIN E. ARVEDLUND; Heather Timmons reported from London for this article and Erin E. Arvedlund from Moscow.

DATELINE: LONDON, July 23 

 BODY:
Two faces of Russian oil emerged on Friday, as a consortium in London offered to pay the $3.4 billion tax bill of the embattled Yukos Oil as part of an effort to acquire a stake in the company, while elsewhere the government gave strong indications of favoring ConocoPhillips as a buyer for Russia's stake in Lukoil. 
 The London consortium -- made up of Konstantin Kagalovsky, a Yukos shareholder; George Miller, a businessman based in Kent, England; and a small number of private investors -- offered to buy the Russian oil giant's assets and pay the company's taxes and debt, totaling $10 billion to $12 billion. Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the company's founder, has been in jail since October, facing charges of fraud and embezzlement.
 Mr. Kagalovsky is a former International Monetary Fund representative who is married to Natasha Gurfinkel Kagalovsky, a former head of Bank of New York's Eastern European division. She resigned in 1999 in the midst of an investigation into Russian money-laundering. 
 In the letter to President Vladimir V. Putin, Mr. Miller proposed buying the portion of Yukos owned by Mr. Khodorkovsky and his partners in Group Menatep. The buyers would pay Yukos's outstanding liabilities and would pay its back taxes directly to Russia's treasury. The group is ready to ''put all efforts to stabilize and ensure the future development of the oil company,'' the letter said.
 Mr. Miller is the chairman of International Waste Management, based in Midlothian, Scotland, according to documents filed with the Companies House, a British records storehouse. He could not be reached for comment on Friday. 
 The bidding consortium claimed that its proposal would solve all of Yukos's problems.
 ''Structurally, it seems to tick all the boxes,'' said Charles Stewart-Smith, a spokesman for the consortium, based in London. ''The government gets the money that it is owed, and that frees up the assets for us. The government also gets Yukos surviving in one piece, which if you believe Putin's utterances, is what he wants.'' 
 The group said it had received no answer to its proposal. A lawyer for Mr. Khodorkovsky, Genrikh Padva, said outside of Meschansky Court in Moscow, where Mr. Khodorkovsky's trial is continuing, that Yukos would welcome any steps toward settling its tax claim. Yukos has retained Credit Suisse First Boston to explore its options. 
 Analysts, however, doubted the government would take up the offer. ''I don't think the administration has gone through the trouble it has gone through, however inelegantly, for some kind of late-hour outcome,'' said Adam Landes, an analyst with Renaissance Capital in London. Yukos will first become a state-owned company, he predicted, and then its future will be decided.
 Elsewhere, ConocoPhillips, the United States oil major, moved closer this week to sealing a deal to buy the government's 7.6 percent stake in Lukoil. The timing of the government's pronouncements on the subject seemed intended to mitigate the negative impact of the continuing Yukos story, which has raised questions about Russia's commitment to private enterprise. 
 In the shadow of Yukos's troubles, investors have been eagerly awaiting the auction of the government's stake in Lukoil, which now seems to be likely in October. The Lukoil stock sale would be the country's largest privatization this year: the stake is worth about $2 billion at market prices. Lukoil's market capitalization is roughly $23 billion.
 More important, the deal appears to have the Kremlin's approval. On Thursday, Mr. Putin was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying he supported the work of Lukoil and ConocoPhillips, which have joined efforts on projects for nearly a decade. Mr. Putin met the presidents of both companies this week on a trip to Krasnodar in the southern region of Russia. 
 ''We've been working on the Northern Territories projects for a long time and on Thursday discussed them with the president for the second time,'' said Vagit Alekperov, president of Lukoil, according to the Itar-Tass news agency. ''We have briefed the president on the implementation of these projects and got his approval to continue with them.'' 
 The meeting of Mr. Putin, Mr. Alekperov and James J. Mulva, chief of ConocoPhillips, took place just hours after the Russian government approved plans to sell its stake in Lukoil. 
 Conoco has been active in Russia since the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. Before its merger with Phillips in 2002, Conoco joined a Northern Territories project, and then teamed up with a state-owned company later acquired by Lukoil. They agreed to explore and develop a number of oil fields in the Timan Pechora oil province, with oil reserves estimated at about one billion barrels. 
 Today, developing the Northern Territories could require $2 billion or more. ''I hope that your loyalty and support will allow us to make long-term investments into the Russian economy,'' Mr. Mulva was quoted as telling Mr. Putin on Interfax. 
 Mr. Putin replied: ''You can count not only on me. I'm sure that from the Russian and American sides, support will be significant.''
 A Lukoil-ConocoPhillips partnership might help soothe foreign investors dismayed by the Yukos situation. ''If there's a deal that involves not only equity, but Conoco's involvement in Lukoil's Russian operations and vice versa, it will go a long way to somewhat mitigating the damage caused by Yukos,'' said Paul Collison, an analyst at Brunswick UBS.
 A partnership could also revive the flagging energy dialogue between the United States and Russia that some believed had failed altogether when Exxon Mobil lost the Sakhalin-3 oil concession.
 ''It's very difficult to say where Russia is headed,'' said Julia Nanay, senior director at the PFC Energy consulting firm in Washington.
 She added, however, that ''it's a sign there still may be opportunities for U.S. companies to do business there.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); LAWYERS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Tax Evasion; Taxation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Frauds and Swindling

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (94%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (73%); OAO LUKOIL (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%) Conocophillips Inc; Lukoil; Group Menatep

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (73%); LKOH (RTS) (57%); LKOD (LSE) (57%); BK (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (73%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (73%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (73%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (73%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (73%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Konstantin Kagalovsky; George (British Businessman) Miller; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky; Heather Timmons; Erin E Arvedlund

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



498 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Oil, Venezuela's Lifeblood, Is Now Its Social Currency, Too

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
Seventeen months after an antigovernment strike crippled production, Venezuela's state oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, has made what analysts call a Herculean return.
 Though energy experts say production remains below prestrike levels, the oil-and-gas monolith is, once again, one of the world's great producers of crude. Its giant refining arm is talking of adding two refineries to the three already operating in the United States. The company says it is embarking on a strategy, heavily dependent on foreign oil companies, to nearly double production by 2009. 
 All this is part of a grand design made possible largely by sky-high oil prices, which have nearly doubled the expected revenue of Pdvsa (pronounced peh-deh-VEH-sah), as the company is known. 
 But while Pdvsa's talk of foreign investment and ramped-up production is welcome in the boardrooms of the world's biggest oil companies, in recent months much of the new earnings have been siphoned from exploration and production projects that some energy analysts say Pdvsa needs to recover fully from the strike. Instead, the windfall is financing a social revolution long promised by President Hugo Chavez's 5 1/2-year-old government to extricate the country from its malaise and ease life for the poor, an effort that had been hobbled by the strike and a 2002 coup that temporarily ousted the firebrand leader.
 And with the Aug. 15 recall referendum that could end Mr. Chavez's presidency drawing ever nearer, the spending spree -- on everything from housing to railroads, health clinics and literacy programs -- is an increasingly important, and successful, tool for solidifying support for Mr. Chavez. Recent polls show he could squeak to victory.
 Pdvsa's new role has raised eyebrows among oil executives and in Washington, which has long counted on Venezuela as one of the four big exporters of oil to the United States and which has been hoping Pdvsa will help curtail the reliance on Middle Eastern crude.
 The company that has emerged from the ashes of the strike that ended in February 2003 is nothing like the button-down, corporate-style company that in the 1990's was often the No.1 provider of foreign oil to the United States.
 Gone is the by-the-book giant, which had $42 billion in sales, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission last October. Gone is the multinational whose managers once proudly compared Pdvsa to Exxon Mobil. Gone, too, are 18,000 experienced executives and managers who were fired for their role in the strike. 
 So is the autonomy the company once wielded, replaced by a highly centralized management controlled by the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
 The new Pdvsa seems to be in no rush to pump more oil to ease the supply squeeze that helped contribute to a price of $42 a barrel in early June and caused so much consternation for American energy officials. 
 Nor is it moving fast toward deals with foreign oil companies, though Pdvsa officials insist they want private investment as long as the terms are beneficial to Venezuela.
 ''We do not need them at any price,'' said Bernard Mommer, an executive at Pdvsa who has advised the company and the Ministry of Energy and Mines on how to realign the company. ''Some of them believe they can carry on as they did in the past. No way.''
 For now, Pdvsa is awash in cash. Its oil revenue in 2004 will top $7 billion, according to an estimate by LatinSource, a network of economists based in New York.
 The government recently announced that $2 billion in Pdvsa revenue would bypass the central bank and form a special development fund to pay for public projects like a hydroelectric plant and a new state airline. Another $1.7 billion -- taken from Pdvsa's $5 billion capitalization budget -- is going to social programs, Rafael Ramirez, the minister of energy and mines, announced.
 Some oil experts warn that huge expenditures like these will permanently damage a company that needs to spend up to $3 billion annually just to keep production stable. 
 ''What they're doing is just maintaining output,'' said Ramon Espinasa, a former chief economist at Pdvsa who is now an oil consultant for the Inter-American Development Bank. ''They stopped the fall, but there's no growth in production.''
 Still, many oil analysts and executives of large oil companies doing business here are taking a wait-and-see attitude, saying that with the big influx of revenue, Mr. Chavez's government may be able to spend big and still run the company. 
 ''These things don't ever come easily, but the steps they've taken are generally correct,'' said Peter Hill, chief executive of Harvest Natural Resources of Houston, a small oil concern that has invested $1 billion here since 1992. ''I believe in the concept of what they're trying to achieve. I think we can contribute to that.''
 To fulfill its social goals, Pdvsa needs foreign companies to play a crucial role in developing new oil fields, drawing more crude from old ones and developing natural gas fields, which contain the largest deposits in Latin America. 
 The company said late in 2003 that it needed to invest $36 billion by 2008, capital that oil experts said would have to come largely from private companies. Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves outside the Middle East, and interest is high among some of the world's biggest companies, energy experts say.
 ''The private sector is literally lining up at the ministry's door,'' said David Voght, managing director of IPD Latin America, an oil company consultancy in Caracas. ''Now it's up to the government to effectively manage these offers.''
 The future lies in developing the oil deposits under the vast grasslands of north central Venezuela, the so-called Orinoco Belt, which oil executives believe may contain more oil than all of Saudi Arabia. In the mid-1990's, when Venezuela was opening up to foreign investment, companies like Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco, ConocoPhillips, Total of France and Statoil of Norway came to the Faja, as the belt is known in Spanish.
 Half a million barrels a day are produced there now, under an old law requiring companies to pay a 1 percent royalty on the first nine years of 35-year contracts; it is part of an old royalty structure intended to lure investors who might have been put off by the Faja's tar-like oil, which is expensive to extract and refine. 
 Though any new projects in the Faja will fall under a 2001 hydrocarbons law that raises royalty rates to at least 20 percent and, for the first time, makes Pdvsa a majority partner, companies remain eager, hoping that they can negotiate lower royalty rates and features in the contracts that reduce Pdvsa's role, industry representatives said.
 ''We have decided to be in Venezuela, with the patience required,'' said Tor Espedal, president of Statoil's Venezuela division. 
 Yet, despite terms generally more favorable to Pdvsa, negotiations with the company, over the Faja and beyond, often go grindingly slow.
 Even at companies like Total that are moving toward a deal, executives describe tough negotiations that leave them wondering how committed Pdvsa really is to expanding the role of private companies.
 ''We are proposing to invest in a $4 billion project immediately, and we agree to work in terms of the new law,'' said Jean-Marie Guillermou of Total's Venezuela operations. ''Normally, a country would want to jump on this. They don't do it. Why?''
 Mr. Mommer, the Pdvsa adviser who also counsels the Energy Ministry, said the company wanted to be cautious and avoid giving out the sweetheart deals he said Pdvsa executives handed out before Mr. Chavez became president.
 ''This will not be repeated,'' he said.
 Some oil executives and analysts say Pdvsa has become a more secretive company, unwilling to release the same kind of financial and production information that it would readily provide in the past.
 Independent energy experts also discount assertions by company officials that Pdvsa is fully recovered from the 2003 strike. Oil executives who work with Pdvsa say that the previously nimble company can take three times as long as a private company to drill a well and that its managers, though capable, lack the knowledge of the fired executives.
 And they question Pdvsa's claims that it is producing more than three million barrels of oil a day. Analysts relying on import-export data and public rig-count records say it is producing 2.5 million a day, or a little more, at most.
 ''Coming back after the strike to reach 2.5 to 2.7 million barrels is pretty heroic,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-supported analysis group in New York. ''They should get credit for that, but we do not believe their numbers.''
 Mr. Chavez's public pronouncements have done little to assuage industry concerns. He has railed against the Bush administration, accusing it of coveting Venezuela's resources, and in March he even threatened to withhold oil if the Bush administration tried an invasion.
 Yet, days after the threat, he warmly greeted ChevronTexaco executives at a ceremony at the presidential palace to celebrate the granting of a gas exploration license.
 Analysts said that with Venezuelan oil providing billions more dollars than expected, Mr. Chavez probably feels he has the freedom to move slowly on signing contracts while focusing instead on social spending.
 ''Right now, Pdvsa is not a mercantile entity,'' said Antonio Szabo, a former executive at Pdvsa who left long before Mr. Chavez came to power and who is now chief executive of Stone Bond Technologies, a Houston software and energy consulting firm. ''Right now, it's an instrument of the Venezuelan government.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Venezuela is moving cautiously on signing new deals with foreign companies so that it gets the best terms. (Photo by Jorge Silva/Reuters)
In recent months a large part of the earnings from the Venezuelan oil company have been channeled to pay for a social revolution, including adult education classes, left, long promised by President Hugo Chavez. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris)(pg. C1)
A worker helps with a well that will supply fresh water to part of Anzoategui, in northeastern Venezuela. Oil money is paying for the project. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Price Support''Venezuela's oil production has not quite returned to its level from before the strike against the state oil company in late 2002 and early 2003. But increased revenues from rising oil prices have more than made up the difference in the nation's coffers.Graphs track oil production and oil prices (near-month contracts) from 2002-2004.(Sources by Energy Information Administration
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); REFERENDUMS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Company and Organization Profiles; Production; Labor; Strikes; Refineries; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Elections; Election Issues; Recall (Elections); Referendums; Public Opinion; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (90%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) Petroleos De Venezuela Sa

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) Hugo Chavez; Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Venezuela; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004



499 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Contenders Turn to the Pirates to Put Them Over the Top

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THE Cubs did not vote the Pirates a share of their postseason earnings last year, even though Pittsburgh was instrumental in Chicago's presence in the playoffs.
 The Cubs edged the Houston Astros by a game for the National League Central championship, and in the last two months of the season, Aramis Ramirez, Kenny Lofton and Randall Simon made a difference for the Cubs to achieve that edge.
 In the playoffs, where the Cubs were five outs from reaching the World Series, Lofton and Simon batted better than .300 and Ramirez led the team with 4 home runs and 10 runs batted in. 
 Ramirez, Lofton and Simon played for the Cubs courtesy of the Pirates, who traded the first two to Chicago on July 22 and Simon on Aug. 16. The day the Cubs acquired Ramirez and Lofton, they were in third place, four and a half games from first. 
 That trade was made nine days before the nonwaiver trading deadline, which is six days from today. Fewer teams may be willing to trade players this week than in past seasons because more teams than usual are competing for playoff positions. But a year ago, the Pirates were eager sellers and the Cubs eager buyers. 
 For Ramirez, a third baseman, and Lofton, a center fielder, the Cubs gave the Pirates infielder Jose Hernandez and the minor leaguers Matt Bruback and Bobby Hill. The minor leaguer Ray Sadler was the price for Simon.
 ''We were in a situation last year with a lot of one-year players we had signed to fill voids because we didn't have players internally ready for the major leagues,'' Dave Littlefield, the Pirates' general manager, said.
 The Pirates had signed the veteran Lofton and the journeyman Simon to one-year contracts, but they had a contract with Ramirez for this season at a $6 million salary.
 ''We were very fortunate that Pittsburgh had economic reasons for doing it,'' Jim Hendry, the Cubs' general manager, said. Of the players the Pirates received from the Cubs, Hill is the only one playing for them. He has been a part-time starter in the infield, hitting .274 in 76 games.
 ''As a general manager, you realize with Lofton and Simon, these were rentals,'' Littlefield said. ''The reality is when you get a guy for two months, you're not going to get a top-rate major league performer.''
 Not so with Brian Giles. The Pirates traded him to San Diego last Aug. 26 and received pitcher Oliver Perez and outfielder Jason Bay. Entering yesterday's games, Perez had the lowest earned run average among Pirates starters (3.18), led the National League in strikeouts per nine innings (10.9) and allowed the third-lowest opponents' batting average (.205). Bay drove in eight runs in a game this season and led the league's rookies in home runs (13), runs batted in (41), on-base percentage (.369) and slugging percentage (.614); his .301 batting average was second.
 ''Giles is a good player, and we had a contract we were going to get good value from,'' Littlefield said. ''But we needed more players, and we liked the players we were getting in return. We were also able to use that money'' -- $14.5 million to Giles for this season and next -- ''to distribute in other places. We have a much different makeup on our roster this year with eight rookies on the team.''
 Giles was not going to do for the Padres last season what Ramirez, Lofton and Simon did for the Cubs. San Diego was looking to the future, which has turned out to be now.
 ''Giles is a great player,'' Kevin Towers, the Padres' general manager, said. ''I used to look at the statistics, and he was right there in all the categories. Even when he wasn't hitting, he was drawing walks. He was one piece we felt we were missing to be a good offensive club.''
 The Padres initially talked to the Pirates about Giles and their starting catcher, Jason Kendall. But, Towers said: ''We didn't want to take on Kendall's contract. We weren't able to get anything done by the trade deadline, but in August we separated the two and we talked about Giles. When they asked major league waivers on him, we put in a claim and they had to deal with us.''
 The Pirates are prepared to be sellers once again this week. Teams seeking a starting pitcher have pursued Kris Benson, who can be a free agent, and the Pirates are not likely to sign him.
 The Pirates, Littlefield said, would prefer position players in return, primarily at first and third base and in the outfield.

Matsui Is a Leading Rookie
 Kazuo Matsui, the Mets' shortstop, has been criticized for underachieving, but a glance at his achievements offers a different perspective. Although some people may not consider him a rookie because of his time in Japan, baseball rules classify him as a rookie.
 Entering yesterday's games, he was the National League's leading rookie in runs (56), hits (107), total bases (161), extra-base hits (38), doubles (29), walks (38) and stolen bases (13). He was third in R.B.I. (36) and tied for fourth in batting average (.278) and home runs (7). 
 By maintaining those positions, he would seem to be a prime candidate for rookie of the year, though the Yankees' Matsui, Hideki, failed to win the award last year because two voting writers said they did not regard him as a rookie despite the rules.

Blue Jays Are in Decline
 The 2003 Toronto Blue Jays gained 8 games in the victory column and 10 games in the standing over their 2002 version, leading to expectations of better things to come this season, possibly even contending status. Great expectations have been followed by greater disappointment. 
 At their present pace, the Blue Jays would win fewer than 70 games and finish so deep in last place, it would take a telescope to find them.
 ''We came out of spring training and the first couple weeks we didn't hit,'' Carlos Tosca, the beleaguered manager, said, tracing the Blue Jays' problems. ''We didn't hit at all. We didn't hit the ball out of the park; we didn't hit with men on base. As we got further away from .500, we got hit with a rash of injuries.''
 The Blue Jays are last in home runs in the American League and 10th in on-base percentage, the keynote of the ''Moneyball'' reinvention of the game. Tosca said they were not walking as much as they had.
 ''We're not built to run and gun,'' he said. ''We're built on the three-run homer. We don't have the speed or the manpower to play the little game.''
 J.P. Ricciardi, the Blue Jays' general manager, is a disciple of Billy Beane, the Oakland general manager and star of the book ''Moneyball.'' Has the Moneyball/Beane system failed in Toronto?
 ''I think it's yet to be determined,'' Tosca said. ''I do know that what J.P.'s philosophy is we're also restricted financially. One thing I mentioned in spring training and next year won't mention is we had to stay healthy to stay in this thing because we didn't have the manpower or the resources to regroup.''
 Yes, he said, the season has been disappointing, but he added: ''I haven't been as disappointed as I would have been if we had quit. We're still playing hard, still giving teams games.''
 And still losing.

Larkin Critical of Reds' Vision
 The St. Louis Cardinals have buried the competition in the N.L. Central, but the wild card remains available to several other teams in the division, including Cincinnati. But Barry Larkin, the Reds' veteran shortstop, said he was not pleased with the front office's outlook.
 ''Last year they traded away our best players,'' Larkin said. ''There's been talk about that happening again this year.''
 Last year, in the three days after they fired Jim Bowden as general manager and Bob Boone as manager, the Reds traded relief pitchers Scott Williamson and Gabe White, outfielder Jose Guillen and third baseman Aaron Boone. They later traded reliever Scott Sullivan.
 Larkin would like the Reds to add players instead of subtracting them.
 ''I've made that comment quite a few times, but it falls on deaf ears within the organization,'' he said. ''I think they have a plan, but I don't know what that plan is. I think that plan is probably more financial than anything. I think winning doesn't appear to be the first and foremost thing that's happening. That's unfortunate. We see Houston go out and get Carlos Beltran. You see teams with plans. That hasn't happened in Cincinnati.''

Angelos in Expos' Path
 As the decision on the future home of the Montreal Expos presumably moves closer, the prospect of Washington or the Washington area remains a mystery, despite heavy speculation to the contrary.
 Peter Angelos, owner of the Baltimore Orioles, continues to campaign against placement of the Expos in what he considers Orioles territory. Commissioner Bud Selig has told Angelos that he will not do anything with the Expos to make him unhappy.
 On the surface, Selig's pledge would seem to eliminate Washington or Northern Virginia. On the other hand, some baseball people have suggested, money could ease Angelos's unhappiness if Selig moved the Expos just south of Baltimore. Selig could give Angelos a large chunk of the sale price the Expos would bring.
 The other contenders do not seem to excite baseball people. Not that Washington or Northern Virginia is a guaranteed gold mine for Major League Baseball, but the consensus is a team would have a better chance to succeed there.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Pirates traded Brian Giles, left, to the Padres for Oliver Perez, center, and Jason Bay (38). Perez has the lowest E.R.A. among Pirates starters, and Bay led the league's rookie hitters in four categories before yesterday. (Photos by left, Lenny Ignelzi/Associated Press
center, Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press
right, Keith Srakocic/Associated Press)
 Barry Larkin is not pleased that the Reds may be looking to trade valuable players. (Photo by Matthew Stockman/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%) Baseball; Trades (Sports) 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (94%); HOUSTON ASTROS (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); NEW YORK METS (59%) Chicago Cubs; Pittsburgh Pirates; New York Mets

PERSON: Murray Chass; Kenny Lofton; Aramis Ramirez; Randall Simon; Kazuo Matsui

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



500 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Talent Show

BYLINE: By PATRICIA E. MITCHELL; As told to Jane L. Levere.

 BODY:
I WAS born when my dad was in World War II. I didn't see him until I was 3, and I lived with my grandparents on a farm in South Georgia. When my dad came back, he was still in the Army, so we moved around a lot. 
 We settled in this small town, Swainsboro, Ga., with a very small high school, with about 50 in my graduating class. 
 My grandmother on my father's side had nine children. Out of those children and 11 on my mother's side, only one had gone to college, my father's oldest sister. My father would always say: ''Well, you'd better get a good education. That's going to be your only way out.''
 Talent shows or beauty contests were about the only things available to small-town Southern women as ways to show that you could excel. So I did talent contests, beauty contests, anything that gave me a train ticket somewhere else. You won money, too, generally, and I was already putting away money for my escape fund. And, of course, the beauty contests were all about getting a new dress. 
 But through all that frivolity, there was also something serious: I was pretty determined to have a different life than what was available to me in Swainsboro.
 I married a guy I went to the University of Georgia with. Our son was born the day I graduated with my master's degree and began teaching. 
 A friend who worked for Look magazine was doing a story on the student revolutions on college campuses during the Vietnam War and as I was teaching at Virginia Commonwealth University, a hotbed of student revolt in the late 60's, he enlisted my help. I enlisted his help in securing an interview at the magazine and was offered a job as a researcher/writer for Look. Leaving the security of my chosen career of college teaching and the South, I moved to New York with my young son.
 Just a few months later, I got a phone call one morning as I was working on a story. It was Gabe Pressman, who works at WNBC. He said, ''Did you know you're unemployed?'' I said, ''I don't know what you're talking about.'' He said, ''I can tell you: Look magazine went bankrupt this morning.'' 
 Some little click went off in my head about television: How come he knows and I don't? Maybe I'm in the wrong world.
 Months of auditions and interviews later, I was at the absolute lowest point. I went down to SoHo to borrow rent money from a friend who was an artist. When I came back to my apartment, I got out of the taxi in a pouring thunderstorm and left my bag in the cab with everything.
 I figured that was a sign that it was time to return to teaching and the South. I started packing, the phone rang and this voice said, ''Is this Patricia Edenfield Mitchell?'' I knew someone was reading off my driver's license. He said, ''This is Rabbi Goldberg, and I have your purse.''
 It turned out he lived right around the corner and had gotten into the cab right after I got out. And there he was, at the door, giving me back everything. As I was crying, thanking him, he said, ''Well, Patricia, at some time in their lives, everyone needs a rabbi, and tonight you got yours.'' That was my moment where somebody gave me back my dreams. I decided then I wanted to always be able to do that for somebody else. 
 I'm always mentoring young women who work for me; in every company I've worked for I've formed women's groups. I think it actually started in Boston in my first television job, when I was one of the first women pioneers.
 If anybody asked me to describe my greatest asset, I would say I am a connector. I just have an instinct about who needs to know whom and how to connect people and ideas. Maybe I knew I had to have my own connections, or I was never going to get out of Swainsboro.

PATRICIA E. MITCHELL
President and chief executive of the Public Broadcasting Service
DATE OF BIRTH -- Jan. 20, 1943
FIRST TELEVISION JOB -- Movie and theater critic at WBZ-TV, Boston
YEARS AT PBS -- Four
FAVORITE NON-PBS TELEVISION PROGRAMS -- 'The West Wing'
'The Larry Sanders Show,'
'Angels in America'


GRAPHIC: Photo: PATRICIA E. MITCHELL (Photo by Fred Prouser/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (60%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%) Television; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (54%) Public Broadcasting Service

PERSON: Jane L Levere; Patricia E Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



501 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE HOST CITY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Bostonians Having Gridlock Nightmares

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK and JOHN KIFNER; Katie Zezima contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 24 

 BODY:
Boston's mayor, Thomas M. Menino, got enthusiastic applause this week, just days before the start of the Democratic National Convention, when he was introduced at a gathering of civic and community leaders.
 But stepping up to the podium, he mused aloud, ''Let's see if I get applause in eight days.'' And he sought to reassure the crowd, or maybe himself.
 ''It's going to be all right folks, let me tell you,'' the mayor said.
 Mr. Menino was acknowledging the fears of many here that the convention will bring gargantuan headaches in the form of gridlock and job interruptions, inconveniencing commuters and businesses and generating less income for the city than hoped. 
 Some of those worries may be just Boston's way of jabbing and poking at any major event. But some of them are based on a number of security-driven road closings and traffic adjustments that as dictated by the United States Secret Service will be more significant than the city expected. As a result, many Bostonians are fleeing town or changing their work schedules. In fact, a poll published Monday by the Political Research Center at Suffolk University found that two-thirds of commuters were planning to take a vacation, work from home or simply ''avoid Boston.''
 ''It's going to be so much worse than normal,'' said Katie Keane, a legal secretary who will spend the convention in the Adirondacks rather than take the train into North Station each day from Billerica, a suburb. ''I didn't want to have to deal with the commute, the people and the traffic.''
 Rob Park, 30, who uses a wheelchair and commutes to his job at the Boston Center for Independent Living, is taking two weeks off and will go to his family's home in Sebago, Me. Mr. Park normally takes the train from his home in Lynn, north of Boston. But during the convention, all trains coming into the city from the north will be stopped, and riders will be bused into Boston.
 ''How am I reasonably going to do it?'' Mr. Park asked. He added that in his experience wheelchair ramps on the buses rarely work. ''I have to be at work at 9, and they're saying this is a two-hour process just to get in, and to me that is ridiculous.''
 Brad Gerstner, president and chief executive officer of National Leisure Group/Vacation Outlet, which books cruises, said business was up about 25 percent and cruises during the convention week from Boston to Bermuda and Canada were fully subscribed long ago.
 Many businesses, especially those near the FleetCenter, the convention site, have encouraged employees to take vacation, work at home or work at suburban offices.
 Greater Boston Legal Services, which provides lawyers for indigent clients and is about two blocks from the FleetCenter, has canceled all client interviews for convention week.
 ''We're a legal aid organization, and we're very concerned about our clients going through security,'' said Bob Sable, the organization's director, who said many of the clients were illegal immigrants or had a record of criminal offenses. ''It's strictly security.''
 Gillette, Boston's largest manufacturer, will send employees in its offices at the Prudential Center and in South Boston home an hour early, at 3:30 p.m., in hopes of getting them out before the major road closings begin at 4 each day, said a spokesman, Eric Kraus. He said the company's South Boston factory would operate three shifts as usual, with only minor scaling back of production that will not affect the company's inventory.
 ''The major impact is the disruption and inconvenience to our employees, which we're trying to lessen to the best of our ability,'' Mr. Kraus said. ''We've encouraged those people who can to telecommute, to work out of their house or another location, and we've encouraged people to take that week as vacation.''
 Mr. Kraus added: ''The worst-case scenario is if Monday traffic is light because everybody took these steps and people think that it's not an issue and don't abide by those steps the next day. My biggest concern is not Monday -- it's Tuesday.''
 Prime among the security measures that have raised trepidations here is the evening closing of some 40 miles of roadways leading into and out of the city, affecting hundreds of thousands of commuters, because I-93, the main route known as the Central Artery, runs just 40 feet from the FleetCenter. 
 Local television newscasts, whose traffic helicopters will be among the aircraft forbidden to fly over the city, have been running lengthy special reports on the sections of roads to be closed. Mayors and police chiefs in towns to the north, like Somerville, Medford and Malden, are threatening to seal off their roads if they become gridlocked with people seeking a way home.
 The security measures are becoming more and more evident as the convention nears. At the FleetCenter, the authorities began a full security lockdown Saturday morning in a driving rainstorm. A double barrier of steel fencing was erected around the convention hall. Private cars and trucks were banned from the nearby network of streets called the Bullfinch Triangle. National Guardsmen in camouflage were stationed at the nearby Haymarket subway stop. In the latest addition to the security plan, eight Air Force F-16 fighter jets have been called in to patrol the skies.
 In the well-to-do Beacon Hill neighborhood, street garbage cans have been removed from their metal hoops to prevent bombs from being hidden, leaving residents to complain that trash is piling up. On Thursday, transit police began random inspections of handbags on the subways. The Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a warning that some unknown group might want to attack the television satellite transmission trucks setting up around the FleetCenter and at picturesque locations like Faneuil Hall, but gave no specifics. At 8 p.m. on Friday, the last train for the duration of the convention left North Station, which serves 25,000 commuters a day.
 Workers erected huge white tents Friday for the security contingent, which is expected to number several thousand from the city and state police, surrounding municipalities, the National Guard and such national agencies as the Secret Service, which is in overall command, and the F.B.I.
 Coast Guard and police patrol boats will cruise the harbor. The police have equipped themselves with exotic devices like a gun that fires clusters of ball-shaped containers of pepper irritant for dispersing crowds. Near the Beacon Hill home of the expected nominee, John Kerry, men sat inside two big black S.U.V.'s with blacked-out windows and Maryland license plates. Mr. Kerry could walk to the convention. 
 The impulse of many to stay away from Boston during the convention has some store owners and other businesses predicting that the week will be an economic bust for them.
 A survey published this week of 100 businesses in Boston by the Beacon Hill Institute of Suffolk University found that only 11 percent of those surveyed are expecting an increase in business during the convention. Nearly three-quarters expect business to decline or stay at the same level as last year. In a statement about the survey, the institute predicted that the convention would cause the city to lose ''$8.2 million rather than gain the $150 million in economic benefits claimed by convention sponsors.''
 Hamed Mohseni, owner of Fantasy Island, which sells gifts in the Faneuil Hall Marketplace, said he expected his business to be hurt, not helped.
 ''They are part of a different class,'' he said of the delegates and dignitaries the convention attracts. ''Not even one penny they spend here. This is not their place of interest.''
 Most people interviewed said they were more concerned about traffic and inconvenience than a terrorist attack. But some were taking security into account.
 ''Would I be on a deserted street in a bad neighborhood late at night?'' asked Karl Strovink, a consultant. ''The convention is the same thing.'' Mr. Strovink decided that he and four employees would go to Chicago, rather than work in Boston. 
 Still, according to the poll by the Political Research Center at Suffolk, 56 percent of those surveyed think that having the convention in Boston is a good idea. (But when asked, ''If we had to do it again, do you think the city of Boston would want this convention?'' the results were more evenly divided: 43 percent said yes and 42 percent said no.)
 ''I'm an optimist, so perhaps there is a lot more hype than what will actually happen,'' said Carol Chacon, a senior paralegal at Greater Boston Legal Services who commutes from Tewksbury. ''But I'm still going to be prepared for what might happen. You should definitely wear sneakers, because with all that's going on you never know when you might have to walk a lot. I could end up on the other side of Boston.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A security officer and his canine partner checked a car yesterday by the FleetCenter, site of the convention. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 ''It's going to be so much worse than normal,'' Katie Keane said. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRAINS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (77%); SUBURBS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Transportation; Commuting; Delays (Transportation) ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: Pam Belluck; John Kifner

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



502 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Up From the Sleeper Car

BYLINE: By A'Lelia Bundles. 
A'Lelia Bundles is the author of ''On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times of Madam C. J. Walker.''

 BODY:

RISING FROM THE RAILS
Pullman Porters and the Making
of the Black Middle Class.
By Larry Tye.
Illustrated. 314 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $26.
 FOR just over a century, until 1969, Pullman porters were as much a part of luxury American train travel as grand marble-columned terminals. More than just the amiable public face of the Pullman Company, the porters -- recently freed slaves -- were crucial to its early success in the decade immediately after the Civil War. As the company's founder, George Pullman, quickly realized, a post-midnight hot toddy and a freshly whisked topcoat were more essential to customer satisfaction (and long-term profits) than the damask curtains and wood-paneled chambers of his ''hotel on wheels.'' And who better to help him maintain his near monopoly of the lucrative sleeping-car industry than the carefully screened black servants whose gentlemanly, nonthreatening demeanor aimed to reassure the wealthy white travelers of the late 19th century? ''The old Southern colored man makes the best porter,'' a Pullman general manager said nostalgically in 1915, as the first generation of porters (and the last generation of former slaves) was beginning to die.
 By its very nature, the work of a Pullman porter could be demeaning, infused as it was with the plantation mentality that lingered in America well into the 20th century. But at a time when even college-educated black men might wind up doing menial labor, the porter's job provided the kind of vicarious exposure and connection to powerful people that Larry Tye contends ''helped shape today's black middle class and intelligentsia.'' In ''Rising From the Rails,'' Tye makes the even bolder claim that ''behind almost every successful African-American, there is a Pullman porter.'' It is a provocative assertion, one that Tye earnestly sets about to prove.
 By the 1900's, when 100,000 passengers a night lay tucked into its sleeping berths, the Pullman Company was the largest single employer of black men in the United States. The same men who were portrayed as grinning, bowing valets in film and fiction were revered at home as dignified, well-traveled sophisticates. ''His was the best job in his community and the worst on the train,'' Tye observes. Tailored jackets and spit-shined shoes guaranteed status in segregated neighborhoods where dusty overalls and mud-crusted brogans were the more frequent attire for workingmen. That more than a third of Pullman porters owned their own homes in 1926 only boosted their reputations as community leaders whose middle-class aspirations trumped their blue-collar realities. It is no surprise that they ''were thought to be catches as husbands,'' as Tye writes.
 Their self-education -- and, subsequently, that of their children -- is said to have begun when they read their passengers' discarded newspapers and magazines. But many porters were college graduates, and more than a few black trainmen were law school and medical school students who earned tuition working summers as dining car waiters. (My maternal grandfather, a 1924 graduate of the University of Pittsburgh Law School, was among them.)
 Scores of former Pullman porters and dining car waiters excelled: Benjamin Mays, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Bates College, who became president of Morehouse College; the explorer Matthew Henson, who helped discover the North Pole; and J. A. Rogers, whose 1917 novel, ''From 'Superman' to Man,'' remains one of the most authentic accounts of a Pullman porter's experiences. But the porter's ''most lasting legacy was his children and grandchildren, and all that they accomplished educationally and economically, socially and politically,'' Tye contends. Clearly that is true of William Kennard, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission and now a managing director of the globally powerful Carlyle Group, who inherited his confident manner from his Pullman porter grandfather. It is equally true of the Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall, the former San Francisco mayor Willie Brown and the Olympian Wilma Rudolph, who all benefited from the lessons of Pullman porter fathers. 
 Unfortunately Tye, the author of ''The Father of Spin,'' devotes considerable ink to biographical and historical material already well covered by other writers. Certainly there is no downside to revisiting the story of E. D. Nixon, the Pullman porter and president of the Montgomery, Ala., chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., who played a key role in that city's 1955 bus boycott. The dramatic story of how A. Philip Randolph led the porters in their nasty 12-year battle against the Pullman Company to create the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the first all-black union chartered by the American Federation of Labor, deserves to be told and retold. But Tye easily could have abbreviated his version of the porters' labor struggles because definitive accounts have appeared in other books, like Jervis Anderson's ''A. Philip Randolph: A Biographical Portrait,'' Paula F. Pfeffer's ''A. Philip Randolph, Pioneer of the Civil Rights Movement'' and Beth Tompkins Bates's ''Pullman Porters and the Rise of Protest Politics in Black America, 1925-1945.'' 
 At his best, Tye celebrates the accomplishments of now prominent descendants of Pullman porters. Had he explained exactly how the porters prepared their offspring to succeed -- and provided more tangible data and documentation -- his claim that Pullman porters begat a disproportionate number of well-educated, professional black Americans would have been stronger. He acknowledges that ''there were no studies comparing porters to other occupational groups'' yet asks us to believe the ''accepted wisdom that they turned out more college graduates than anyone else.'' Without a comparison of the contributions to the creation of the black middle class by, among others, teachers, ministers, beauticians, caterers, country club headwaiters and, truth be told, the occasional numbers banker, Tye's premise that Pullman porters, more than any other group, ''helped give birth to the African-American professional classes'' seems overstated. The porters' transformation from shuffling factotums to militant labor movement heroes is so compelling that one wants to applaud them in every way possible, but the numbers just do not add up, especially when one knows that the 12,000 porters of the 1920's constituted just a whisper more than one-tenth of 1 percent of the total black population of 10 million. In the end, Tye's anecdotal evidence, captivating as it may be, is less than sufficient to deliver fully on his subtitle's promise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); LITERATURE (60%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (55%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: PULLMAN CO (73%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS (73%)

PERSON: A'Lelia Bundles; Larry Tye

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



503 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Honorable Commission, Toothless Report

BYLINE: By Richard A. Clarke. 
Richard A. Clarke, former head of counterterrorism at the National Security Council, is the author of ''Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror.''

 BODY:
Americans owe the 9/11 commission a deep debt for its extensive exposition of the facts surrounding the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. Yet, because the commission had a goal of creating a unanimous report from a bipartisan group, it softened the edges and left it to the public to draw many conclusions. 
 Among the obvious truths that were documented but unarticulated were the facts that the Bush administration did little on terrorism before 9/11, and that by invading Iraq the administration has left us less safe as a nation. (Fortunately, opinion polls show that the majority of Americans have already come to these conclusions on their own. ) 
 What the commissioners did clearly state was that Iraq had no collaborative relationship with Al Qaeda and no hand in 9/11. They also disclosed that Iran provided support to Al Qaeda, including to some 9/11 hijackers. These two facts may cause many people to conclude that the Bush administration focused on the wrong country. They would be right to think that.
 So what now? News coverage of the commission's recommendations has focused on the organizational improvements: a new cabinet-level national intelligence director and a new National Counterterrorism Center to ensure that our 15 or so intelligence agencies play well together. Both are good ideas, but they are purely incremental. Had these changes been made six years ago, they would not have significantly altered the way we dealt with Al Qaeda; they certainly would not have prevented 9/11. Putting these recommendations in place will marginally improve our ability to crush the new, decentralized Al Qaeda, but there are other changes that would help more. 
 First, we need not only a more powerful person at the top of the intelligence community, but also more capable people throughout the agencies -- especially the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency. In other branches of the government, employees can and do join on as mid- and senior-level managers after beginning their careers and gaining experience elsewhere. But at the F.B.I. and C.I.A., the key posts are held almost exclusively by those who joined young and worked their way up. This has created uniformity, insularity, risk-aversion, torpidity and often mediocrity.
 The only way to infuse these key agencies with creative new blood is to overhaul their hiring and promotion practices to attract workers who don't suffer the ''failures of imagination'' that the 9/11 commissioners repeatedly blame for past failures. 
 Second, in addition to separating the job of C.I.A. director from the overall head of American intelligence, we must also place the C.I.A.'s analysts in an agency that is independent from the one that collects the intelligence. This is the only way to avoid the ''groupthink'' that hampered the agency's ability to report accurately on Iraq. It is no accident that the only intelligence agency that got it right on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction was the Bureau of Intelligence and Research at the State Department -- a small, elite group of analysts encouraged to be independent thinkers rather than spies or policy makers. 
 Analysts aren't the only ones who should be reconstituted in small, elite groups. Either the C.I.A. or the military must create a larger and more capable commando force for covert antiterrorism work, along with a network of agents and front companies working under ''nonofficial cover'' -- that is, without diplomatic protection -- to support the commandos. 
 Even more important than any bureaucratic suggestions is the report's cogent discussion of who the enemy is and what strategies we need in the fight. The commission properly identified the threat not as terrorism (which is a tactic, not an enemy), but as Islamic jihadism, which must be defeated in a battle of ideas as well as in armed conflict. 
 We need to expose the Islamic world to values that are more attractive than those of the jihadists. This means aiding economic development and political openness in Muslim countries, and efforts to stabilize places like Afghanistan, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. Restarting the Israel-Palestinian peace process is also vital. 
 Also, we can't do this alone. In addition to ''hearts and minds'' television and radio programming by the American government, we would be greatly helped by a pan-Islamic council of respected spiritual and secular leaders to coordinate (without United States involvement) the Islamic world's own ideological effort against the new Al Qaeda.
 Unfortunately, because of America's low standing in the Islamic world, we are now at a great disadvantage in the battle of ideas. This is primarily because of the unnecessary and counterproductive invasion of Iraq. In pulling its bipartisan punches, the commission failed to admit the obvious: we are less capable of defeating the jihadists because of the Iraq war. 
 Unanimity has its value, but so do debate and dissent in a democracy facing a crisis. To fully realize the potential of the commission's report, we must see it not as the end of the discussion but as a partial blueprint for victory. The jihadist enemy has learned how to spread hate and how to kill -- and it is still doing both very effectively three years after 9/11. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); HIJACKING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



504 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Shedding Pounds With Medicare

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS Medicare administrators this month were abandoning the official view that obesity is not an illness, many newspapers were reporting on new robotic vacuum cleaners that threaten one of the few remaining outlets for physical exertion in homes already filled with computers and remote controls.
 It was a coincidence, of course, but the two developments are at least indirectly related. Modern life is making Americans fatter, and the Medicare decision opens the door for the government to pay for some obesity treatments, possibly including bariatric surgery. 
 Unfortunately, a potentially much more important class of treatments -- weight-control drugs -- won't be covered. According to a Medicare spokesman, the program does not pay for weight-loss medication and will not do so under its coming prescription drug plan. 
 Some people will be appalled at the suggestion that drugs are the solution to America's weight problems. But consider that millions already start each day with a vitamin tablet, and many take cholesterol medication or birth control pills. If there were a safe, effective drug that helped people stay thin, rest assured that it would be widely used. (We already have one, called cigarettes, but the costs far outweigh the benefits.) Someday, prescription weight-control drugs will be a hugely profitable business. And we would all be better off -- financially as well as physically -- if such medication were available sooner rather than later. It would help a lot if Medicare paid for it. 
 Already, the Food and Drug Administration says, about two-thirds of American adults weigh more than they should, with a variety of health consequences. Cost figures are always somewhat speculative, but the government has put the economic cost of obesity at $117 billion a year, and cites estimates of 300,000 or more deaths annually. 
 Given all of that, it is remarkable that only a handful of drugs are approved by the F.D.A. for treating obesity, and in general they are only modestly effective. Carole D. Gleeson, an analyst at Decision Resources Inc., a pharmaceutical industry consulting firm, estimates that annual spending on prescription weight-control drugs in the United States is a mere $350 million; she expects that the total will climb to $1.7 billion by 2010, though that still pales next to the roughly $13 billion spent on cholesterol-lowering drugs, to cite just one blockbuster category. Obesity is a complex problem, and Ms. Gleeson says that while there are perhaps 200 weight-control agents in various stages of development, many new weight-control drugs fail before they make it to human trials.
 There's nothing like a healthy diet and ample exercise. But it's unlikely that most people will find new reserves of willpower, or will abandon their computers and cars for more physical activity. Microwave ovens, like our love of fats and sweets, are probably here to stay, so the best answer may be scientific research to produce more medications to address the problem. Edward L. Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard who has studied the role of technology in making us fat, has observed that while food technology is quite advanced, weight-control technology remains relatively embryonic -- but he says it will surely advance. 
 Medicare payments, not to mention more coverage by private insurers, could hasten the development of new obesity drugs. While paying for such drugs may look like a recipe for expanding the federal deficit, it should reduce health care spending in the long run by heading off some of the diabetes, heart disease and other ailments associated with excess weight -- ailments that run up a pretty big Medicare bill already. Reducing the incidence of these illnesses and diverting money now spent on less effective weight remedies should increase economic growth.
 PHARMACEUTICAL companies, of course, would enjoy profits in direct proportion to the extent that they could deliver thinness in a capsule. And we might as well face the fact that, like Viagra, these drugs would soon be taken by people who don't strictly need them. But before you reach for another bacon cheeseburger, bear in mind that any new pill is unlikely to let you overeat all the time without putting on pounds -- and that, in all likelihood, you'll still need to exercise. 
 Weight-control medication, nevertheless, is in our future. At least when it comes, it will give pleasant new meaning to the expression ''everybody gains.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIETING (92%); OBESITY (90%); BARIATRICS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (89%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); NUTRITION (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CHOLESTEROL (68%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (67%); APPROVALS (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (56%); CONTRACEPTION (52%) Weight; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Weight

COMPANY: DECISION RESOURCES GROUP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



505 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: L.A. Residential

BYLINE: By SCOTT FOUNDAS. 
Scott Foundas is a Los Angeles-based film critic for Variety.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
EVEN on a not-so-clear day, you can see a lot of Los Angeles from Thom Andersen's house, a modestly modernist two-story building that was renovated, in the 1930's, by the architect R. M. Schindler. Here, high in the hills of Los Feliz, on the northern edge of downtown, the vistas are sweeping and varied, calling to mind Roman Polanski's observation that ''Los Angeles is the most beautiful city in the world, as long as seen at night and from a distance.''
 This panorama, however, pales in comparison to the ones on display in Mr. Andersen's latest film, ''Los Angeles Plays Itself,'' which was shown to great acclaim at last year's Toronto International Film Festival and which opens at Film Forum on Wednesday. Revealing its smoggy, gridlocked subject from all points of vantage, through a breathless succession of excerpts from feature films and newsreels, ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' is no mere travelogue or starry clip reel. Rather, it is a deeply personal cinematic essay in which Mr. Andersen strives to reconcile the myriad identities of what he claims is the world's most filmed metropolis. 
 For Mr. Andersen, who was born in Chicago in 1943 and moved to Los Angeles with his family at the age of 3, ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' is an exercise in both film history and civic responsibility, driven by the feeling that movies have largely betrayed the character of his adopted hometown. It is an attempt to reclaim the real from the reel, if you will, to recover the true Los Angeles, his Los Angeles, from the many false representations that have littered movie screens virtually since the dawn of Hollywood. Of particular concern: the Los Angeles steeped in conspiratorial crime that has provided the settings for such hallowed films noirs as ''Kiss Me Deadly,'' ''Chinatown'' and ''L.A. Confidential.''
 ''I like film noir,'' Mr. Andersen said over a recent lunch at a neighborhood Cajun bistro. ''But if that's the only fiction about Los Angeles that exists, and those are the only movies about Los Angeles that exist, that's leaving out a lot. At a certain point I came to realize that, while people speak about films noirs as a more realistic and darker approach to American life than Hollywood had managed before, the fact is that they're fantasies. They're movies in which being young is good and being old is bad, and in which the ideal female love object is a woman who appears to be bad but is actually good -- the whore who turns out to be a Madonna. But this is something that doesn't get talked about much.''
 Except, that is, when Mr. Andersen is doing the talking. Tall and prematurely gray, with an exaggeratedly narrow frame that causes him to resemble some squished cartoon character not yet accordioned back to normal proportions, Mr. Andersen traces the impetus for ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' to a lecture he gave at the California Institute of the Arts, the Southern California college where he has taught since 1987. The lecture (and, in turn, a lengthy sequence in Mr. Andersen's nearly three-hour film) was inspired by his objections to ''L.A. Confidential'' -- criticisms, it's worth noting, that extend well beyond the subject matter of Curtis Hanson's 1997 film. Adapted from James Ellroy's novel of the same name, the sprawling, 50's-era tale of police corruption and Hollywood seaminess represents exactly the sort of fictive Los Angeles history that troubles Mr. Andersen.
 The film's use of the subterranean Lovell Health House, designed by Richard Neutra, as the residence of the villain Pierce Patchett, for example, strikes Mr. Andersen as just the latest expression of Hollywood filmmakers' longstanding antagonism toward modernist architecture. And then there's that title: both in person and in ''Los Angeles Plays Itself,'' Mr. Andersen makes it clear that he considers the abbreviation L.A. to be pejorative -- one he never uses himself. But what really riles Mr. Andersen is the tendency of Los Angeles-set films to depict a mostly Caucasian city -- there is hardly a black or Latino or Asian face to be found in ''L.A. Confidential'' -- where everybody lives at the beach or in Beverly Hills, where nobody takes public transportation and where everybody is (or is trying to become) a part of ''the industry.''
 Beyond Mr. Ellroy and Mr. Hanson, the roots of ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' lie in Mr. Andersen's highly regarded but rarely exhibited prior work. Though he was part of the University of Southern California film school generation that included George Lucas and John Milius, his own career has been more about looking to cinema's past than seeking to establish its new frontiers -- beginning with his 1974 debut feature, ''Eadweard Muybridge, Zoopraxographer,'' and its inquiry into the life and work of the 19th-century motion-picture pioneer.
 But it is the 1995 ''Red Hollywood'' (which Mr. Andersen directed with the film theorist Noel Burch) that seems, in style and in form, the true progenitor of ''Los Angeles Plays Itself.'' Just as ''Red Hollywood'' argued that the filmmakers victimized by the Hollywood blacklist did succeed in inserting Communist ideology into their films, so ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' contemplates the ways in which movies transmit useful information about the social, economic and architectural tissue of the cities in which they were made. If we can appreciate documentaries for their dramatic qualities, Mr. Andersen posits early in his film's acerbic, ''Dragnet''-like narration, mightn't we also appreciate fiction films for their documentary information?
 Both films, rather brazenly, demand that their viewers look deeper into the content of motion-picture images, beyond such superficial concerns as character and story. And both let the movies themselves do the talking, relying less on Mr. Andersen's conjecture than on the careful selection and arrangement of film excerpts -- drawn from movies new and old, famous and infamous, grade-A to grade-Z. However, the most resonant connection may be what Mr. Andersen calls ''American neorealism,'' appropriating the term from the Italian films of the postwar era, with their emphasis on working-class life and location shooting.
 ''The most significant effect of the blacklist was to cut off the possibilities of neorealism in Hollywood studio movies, and you can see this in Los Angeles movies in particular,'' he continued. ''The films I talk about in 'Red Hollywood,' which I suggest are the most important achievements of the Communists and ex-Communists in Hollywood, represent a beginning of neorealism in the United States. In the period 1946 to '51, there were a lot of movies that were shot on location, particularly in downtown Los Angeles. Then, it disappears, and in terms of Los Angeles movies, when they started filming in the streets again, it was in the suburbs. There was a period where you never saw downtown Los Angeles in Hollywood movies, and that lasted until the 1980's.''
 Not surprisingly, ''Los Angeles Plays Itself'' frequently champions smaller movies made outside the Hollywood studio system that offer more accurate views of the city and its people. Two such titles -- Kent MacKenzie's masterly ''The Exiles,'' about a bustling Native American community living in the shadows of downtown Los Angeles, and Billy Woodberry's ''Bless Their Little Hearts,'' which offers a piercing portrayal of an African-American family living below the poverty line -- have been resurrected on the festival and film-society circuit thanks in part to Mr. Andersen's handiwork.
 While Mr. Andersen's film has itself become something of a film-festival sensation, he remains frustrated that it is, in at least one respect, not actually a film at all. It exists only as a high-quality video master, not as a 35-millimeter film print. And Mr. Andersen's film has yet to find a distributor, or a commercial engagement in its namesake city. 
 ''Sometimes I think 'Los Angeles Plays Itself' would be really great if I could have afforded to make it on film,'' he said. ''What it is now is just a sketch for a movie instead of being a real movie.'' If so, it is an uncommonly complex sketch that finds in its subject -- whether seen at night and from a distance or up close and in the stark light of day -- a harsh, yet indelible beauty. Somewhere, Mr. Polanski is preparing to eat his words.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thom Andersen, director of ''Los Angeles Plays Itself,'' in his home in the Los Feliz district. (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); FILM HISTORY (69%); FILM GENRES (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%) 

PERSON: Thom Andersen; Scott Foundas

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



506 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: REFRESH BUTTON; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Still Awaiting The Big Boom

BYLINE: By Robert Johnson

 BODY:
If Harry S. Dent Jr. ever records a theme song, maybe it will be ''Home on the Range'' -- if only for that line of unbridled optimism, ''Where seldom is heard a discouraging word, and the skies are not cloudy all day.''
 Mr. Dent, an economic forecaster and author who is based in Dallas, is more bullish than a herd of longhorns. Never mind that the millennium hasn't yet brought the economic surge that he saw coming in his 1998 best seller, ''The Roaring 2000's: Building the Wealth and Lifestyle You Desire in the Greatest Boom in History.'' Just wait a little longer, says Mr. Dent, who is 51, because the economy will yet roar in the early 2000's. 
 He has long made a good thing out of predicting great times. In ''The Great Boom Ahead,'' his 1993 book, he forecast the prosperity that persisted through the decade, with booming stocks and falling mortgage rates.
 Of course, the 1998 book, which projected a turn-of-the-century economy as having ''rapid and exciting change as we have not seen since the dizzying pace of the productivity revolution unleashed by the assembly line in the Roaring 20's,'' did not anticipate the gloomy aftermath of terrorist attacks or the dot-com and telecom busts. So far in the new century, the economy and the stock market have generally been rasping, not roaring.
 But Mr. Dent, whose monthly newsletter, The H.S. Dent Forecast, has about 7,000 subscribers who pay $199 a year, is still optimistic. 
 ''We expect the stock market and the economy to pick up next year,'' he said. ''The big surge should last from 2005 to 2009 and look like the late 1990's.''
 The improvement, he predicted, will be led by the spending and investment of baby boomers. 
 ''They haven't stopped buying cars and other big-ticket items,'' he said. ''The slowdown we have experienced was caused because businesses overexpanded in the 1990's and companies stopped spending.''
 Mr. Dent is finishing another book, ''The Next Great Bubble Boom,'' which is expected in September (Free Press).
 Robert Johnson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry S. Dent Jr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); WRITERS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); BONDS (67%); TERRORISM (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) United States Economy; Books and Literature; Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Harry S Jr Dent; Robert Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



507 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: An Antidote to Empire

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama. 
Francis Fukuyama, a professor of international political economy at Johns Hopkins University, is the author of ''State-Building: Governance and World Order in the 21st Century.''

 BODY:

MULTITUDE
War and Democracy
in the Age of Empire.
By Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri.
427 pp. The Penguin Press. $27.95.
 Well before 9/11 and the Iraq war put the idea in everybody's mind, Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri had popularized the notion of a modern empire. Four years ago, they argued in a widely discussed book -- titled, as it happens, ''Empire'' -- that the globe was ruled by a new imperial order, different from earlier ones, which were based on overt military domination. This one had no center; it was managed by the world's wealthy nation-states (particularly the United States), by multinational corporations and by international institutions like the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund. This empire -- a k a globalization -- was exploitative, undemocratic and repressive, not only for developing countries but also for the excluded in the rich West.
 Hardt and Negri's new book, ''Multitude,'' argues that the antidote to empire is the realization of true democracy, ''the rule of everyone by everyone, a democracy without qualifiers.'' They say that the left needs to leave behind outdated concepts like the proletariat and the working class, which vastly oversimplify the gender/racial/ethnic/ class diversities of today's world. In their place they propose the term ''multitude,'' to capture the ''commonality and singularity'' of those who stand in opposition to the wealthy and powerful.
 This book -- which lurches from analyses of intellectual property rules for genetically engineered animals to discourses on Dostoyevsky and the myth of the golem -- deals with an imaginary problem and a real problem. Unfortunately, it provides us with an imaginary solution to the real problem.
 The imaginary problem stems from the authors' basic understanding of economics and politics, which remains at its core unreconstructedly Marxist. For them, there is no such thing as voluntary economic exchange, only coercive political hierarchy: any unequal division of rewards is prima facie evidence of exploitation. Private property is a form of theft. Globalization has no redeeming benefits whatsoever. (East Asia's rise from third- to first-world status in the last 50 years seems not to have registered on their mental map.) Similarly, democracy is not embodied in constitutions, political parties or elections, which are simply manipulated to benefit elites. The half of the country that votes Republican is evidently not part of the book's multitude. 
 To all this Hardt and Negri add an extremely confused theory, their take on what Daniel Bell labeled postindustrial society, and what has more recently been called the ''knowledge economy.'' The ''immaterial labor'' of knowledge workers differs from labor in the industrial era, Hardt and Negri say, because it produces not objects but social relations. It is inherently communal, which implies that no one can legitimately appropriate it for private gain. Programmers at Microsoft may be surprised to discover that because they collaborate with one another, their programs belong to everybody. 
 It's hard to know even how to engage this set of assertions. Globalization is a complex phenomenon; it produces winners and losers among rich and poor alike. But you would never learn about the complexities from reading ''Multitude.'' So let's move on to Hardt and Negri's real problem, which has to do with global governance. 
 We have at this point in human history evolved fairly good democratic political institutions, but only at the level of the nation-state. With globalization -- and increased flows of information, goods, money and people across borders -- countries are now better able to help, but also to harm, one another. In the 1990's, the harm was felt primarily through financial shocks and job losses, and since 9/11 it has acquired a military dimension as well. As the authors state, ''one result of the current form of globalization is that certain national leaders, both elected and unelected, gain greater powers over populations outside their own nation-states.'' 
 The United States is uniquely implicated in this charge because of its enormous military, economic and cultural power. What drove people around the world crazy about the Bush administration's unilateral approach to the Iraq war was its assertion that it was accountable to no one but American voters for what it did in distant parts of the globe. And since institutions like the United Nations are woefully ill equipped to deal with democratic legitimacy, this democracy deficit is a real and abiding challenge at the international level. 
 The authors are conscious of the charge that they, like the Seattle anti-globalization protesters they celebrate, don't have any real solutions to these matters, so they spend some time discussing how to fix the present international institutions. Their problem is that any fixes are politically difficult if not impossible to bring about, and promise only marginal benefits. Democratic institutions that work at the nation-state level don't work at global levels. A true global democracy, in which all of the earth's billions of people actually vote, is an impossible dream, while existing proposals to modify the United Nations Security Council or change the balance of power between it and the General Assembly are political nonstarters. Making the World Bank and I.M.F. more transparent are worthy projects, but hardly solutions to the underlying issue of democratic accountability. The United States, meanwhile, has stood in the way of new institutions like the International Criminal Court. 
 It is at this point that Hardt and Negri take leave of reality -- arriving at an imaginary solution to their real problem. They argue that instead of ''repeating old rituals and tired solutions'' we need to begin ''a new investigation in order to formulate a new science of society and politics.'' The woolliness of the subsequent analysis is hard to overstate. According to them, the fundamental obstacle to true democracy is not just the monopoly of legitimate force held by nation-states, but the dominance implied in virtually all hierarchies, which give certain individuals authority over others. The authors dress up Marx's old utopia of the withering away of the state in the contemporary language of chaos theory and biological systems, suggesting that hierarchies should be replaced with networks that reflect the diversity and commonality of the ''multitude.'' 
 The difficulty with this line of reasoning is that there is a whole class of issues networks can't resolve. This is why hierarchies, from nation-states to corporations to university departments, persist, and why so many left-wing movements claiming to speak on behalf of the people have ended up monopolizing power. Indeed, the powerlessness and poverty in today's world are due not to the excessive power of nation-states, but to their weakness. The solution is not to undermine sovereignty but to build stronger states in the developing world. 
 To illustrate, take the very different growth trajectories of East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa over the past generation. Two of the fastest growing economies in the world today happen to be in the two most populous countries, China and India; sub-Saharan Africa, by contrast, has tragically seen declining per capita incomes over the same period. At least part of this difference is the result of globalization: China and India have integrated themselves into the global economy, while sub-Saharan Africa is the one part of the world barely touched by globalization or multinational corporations. 
 But this raises the question of why India and China have been able to take advantage of globalization, while Africa has not. The answer has largely to do with the fact that the former have strong, well-developed state institutions providing basic stability and public goods. They had only to get out of the way of private markets to trigger growth. By contrast, modern states were virtually unknown in most of sub-Saharan Africa before European colonialism, and the weakness of states in the region has been the source of its woes ever since. 
 Any project, then, to fix the ills of ''empire'' has to begin with the strengthening, not the dismantling, of institutions at the nation-state level. This will not solve the problems of global governance, but surely any real advance here will come only through slow, patient innovation and the reform of international institutions. Hardt and Negri should remember the old insight of the Italian Marxist Antonio Gramsci, taken up later by the German Greens: progress is to be achieved not with utopian dreaming, but with a ''long march through institutions.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); IRAQ WAR (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICS (86%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); ETHNICITY (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (63%); EVIDENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: Francis Fukuyama; Michael Hardt; Antonio Negri

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



508 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: The Last Empire, for Now

BYLINE: By John Lewis Gaddis. 
John Lewis Gaddis's most recent book is ''Surprise, Security, and the American Experience.''

 BODY:

COLOSSUS
The Price of America's Empire.
By Niall Ferguson.
384 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95.
 NIALL FERGUSON points out, toward the end of this book, that between 1999 and 2003 the United States played the decisive role in removing Slobodan Milosevic, the Taliban and Saddam Hussein from power. ''Toppling three tyrannies within four years,'' he notes, ''is no mean achievement by the standards of any past global empire.'' It is an impressive record, even for a country whose military strength, since the cold war ended, has been unchallenged. Within the world of historians, however, it has a parallel.
 Ferguson himself, during the past four years, has published three big books: on the relationship between money and the power of states since 1700; on the history of the British Empire; and now on the achievements and prospects of the only empire left, that of the United States. Despite having just turned 40, he has four other major books to his credit, one of them -- a history of the Rothschilds -- in two volumes. No contemporary historian rivals him in the range, productivity and visibility of his scholarship. If the United States is pre-eminent in the world these days, then surely Ferguson is so within his profession.
 Trained at Oxford, Ferguson taught there for a decade before moving to New York University, where he has briefly been professor of financial history -- he joins the Harvard history department later this year. Unlike most of his academic colleagues, he defies categorization. He writes military, political and economic history as well as biography; he is an innovative methodologist; he has starred in his own six-part television documentary (on the British Empire); and he is a prolific commentator on current affairs. Ferguson is always provocative, often insightful and he seems to have trouble sitting still.
 At 384 pages, ''Colossus'' is one of Ferguson's smaller books; but it is his most ambitious effort yet to connect historical analysis with what is happening in the world today. His thesis is simply stated: the United States is an empire, however much Americans might deny that fact; its record of accomplishment in this capacity is not very good; and it should learn from the experiences of earlier empires, notably that of Britain.
 Both ''Colossus'' and Ferguson's previous book ''Empire'' proceed from a controversial assumption for which he makes no apologies: it is that empires have as often been a force for progress as a source of oppression. Their history, he reminds us, goes back much farther than does that of the modern state -- that fact alone provides reason to question politically correct claims that we live in a postimperial age. Nor should we want to, Ferguson argues, because empires are a time-tested method for imposing order and securing justice, qualities sadly lacking in the post-cold-war world. ''What is required,'' he writes, ''is an agency capable of intervening . . . to contain epidemics, depose tyrants, end local wars and eradicate terrorist organizations.'' The United Nations has long since demonstrated its inability to perform this task. That leaves only the United States, together with such coalitions of the willing as it can assemble. 
 That Americans have the power to run such a ''liberal empire'' Ferguson does not doubt: they have been doing something like this for decades. They have, however, been ''surprisingly inept'' in their interventions, which are ''often short-lived and their results ephemeral.'' This has happened, he complains, because they ''lack the imperial cast of mind.'' Americans fail to train their youth to manage their empire. They resist annexation, preferring ''that foreigners . . . Americanize themselves without the need for formal rule.'' They are more into consumption than conquest: ''They would rather build shopping malls than nations. They crave for themselves protracted old age and dread, even for other Americans who have volunteered for military service, untimely death in battle.''
 As a fulmination, this is splendid. As history, however, it is unpersuasive. Ferguson himself acknowledges that annexation is no necessary requirement for imperial success: the British Empire often operated without formally controlling territory. Fears of casualties did not deter Americans from slaughtering one another in their own Civil War, or from costly sacrifices in the two world wars, as well as in Korea and Vietnam. And if it was ''ephemeral'' for the United States to have exited the world wars far stronger than when it entered them, one wonders what might be said about the comparative performance of the British, French, German, Austro-Hungarian, Russian, Dutch and Japanese empires. 
 Nor does ''inept'' seem quite the right word for the record of the United States during the cold war. It led the effort to contain the Soviet Union and international Communism, without resorting to war or appeasement. It designed an international order in which American influence spread, as Ferguson himself notes, more by invitation than by imposition. And it emerged from the cold war with no credible great power rivals in sight, a condition that persists over a decade later. A fondness for consumption and shopping malls? Perhaps, but compared with whom? The Europeans? The Japanese? The Chinese?
 Several of Ferguson's claims, moreover, are contradictory. He maintains at one point that West Germany would have recovered without American assistance after World War II because the Nazis had been in power for only 12 years, so that the Germans retained the memory of how democratic institutions functioned. Elsewhere, though, he dismisses this argument as ''conventional wisdom,'' which overlooks ''the extent to which the Third Reich had revolutionized German political culture.'' He criticizes the Truman administration for rejecting Gen. Douglas MacArthur's advice to use nuclear weapons against Chinese targets during the Korean War; but he admits that MacArthur himself ''had no answer'' to critics who warned of the risks this strategy would entail. Ferguson documents the futility of American military operations in Vietnam, but regards the Johnson administration's 1968 decisions to send no additional troops and to begin negotiations as ''fatal mistakes.''
 There are, along with these contradictions, curious digressions -- box office receipts for movies about Vietnam, for example, or statistics on American obesity -- the relevance of which is unclear. And there are errors, like misdating the American directive for the occupation of Germany, and misstating the number of Americans killed in Vietnam. ''Colossus'' reads, in short, like a series of previously published essays too hastily stitched together.
 This is unfortunate, because whatever his skill at stitching, Ferguson is an accomplished and imaginative scholar. Several of his arguments deserve more careful consideration than they are likely to receive, given the distractions that surround them.
 One is that the dismantling of formal empires and the near-universal practice of self-determination have so far failed to produce the orderly, prosperous and equitable world for which liberals since Woodrow Wilson have hoped. Another is that ''for some countries some form of imperial governance, meaning a partial or complete suspension of their national sovereignty, might be better than full independence,'' and that only the United States is in a position to supply, and secure international support for, such tutelage.
 Yet another argument reflects Ferguson at his best: it is his warning that Americans may fail in this task because of a threat from within their own society. It is not terrorism, but rather the ballooning costs of Social Security and Medicare, combined with recent tax cuts, that ensure trillions of dollars in deficits for as far into the future as anyone can see. As a result, the United States government already depends upon the willingness of foreigners, notably the Chinese, to cover its budgetary shortfalls by purchasing its bonds. One need not accept Ferguson's account of past ineptitudes to see the dangerous implications of this one: the responsibility for it resides squarely within the administration of George W. Bush. 
 The time has therefore come, Ferguson concludes, to revive Paul Kennedy's term ''imperial overstretch,'' but to apply it now to the gap that exists between the domestic obligations Americans have taken on and their unwillingness to pay for them: this could be the Achilles' heel of their empire. The point makes gloomy good sense. It's all the more regrettable, then, that Ferguson has embedded it in a book that does not bear its weight. Perhaps there is also such a thing as authorial overstretch.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (90%); COLD WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); TALIBAN (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); JOHN LEWIS (50%) John Lewis Gaddis; Niall Ferguson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



509 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; YOUR HOME; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Adjustable Mortgages May Still Save Money

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
WITH interest rates threatening to head considerably higher, borrowers may be tempted to lock in today's still relatively low figures with 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages. But while doing so may be appropriate for many borrowers, mortgage experts say, it may not be right for everyone.
 ''Depending on your circumstances, a fixed-rate loan could cost thousands of dollars more than other mortgage options,'' said Ron Chicaferro, president of Thornburg Mortgage Home Loans, a Santa Fe, N.M., mortgage lender. 
 Mr. Chicaferro said that since the average life of a mortgage is about six years, borrowers who hold their loans for that time or less might be better off with an adjustable-rate mortgage (or ARM), even if interest rates rise. 
 With a fixed-rate mortgage, he said, the rate and the monthly payment remain constant. With an ARM, the rate fluctuates, typically in tandem with a benchmark like the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor. Depending on the loan, the adjustment can occur monthly or yearly. 
 Since a borrower with an adjustable mortgage is accepting the risk that rates might rise, the initial rate is lower than that of a fixed-rate loan. If the rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage is 6.5 percent, the initial rate on a one-month ARM could be as low as 3 percent, Mr. Chicaferro said. 
 So, he said, even if interest rates were to rise 1 percentage point a year, it would take 7.42 years for the cost of a $500,000, one-month Libor ARM at an initial rate of 3 percent to equal the cost of a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage at 6.5 percent. By the time the interest rate on the one-month ARM reached 6.5 percent (roughly 44 months), the borrower would have saved $31,931. It would be 45 more months before the savings were used up and the ARM's cost equaled that of the fixed-rate loan. So if the borrower paid off his mortgage any time before it was 7.42 years old, he would save money. 
 There are, of course, risks. ''You have to go into an ARM with your eyes wide open,'' said Keith Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Pompton Plains, N.J. Mr. Gumbinger said that if interest rates rise, and borrowers keep ARM's beyond the break-even point, they can end up paying more -- sometimes much more. ''Basically, by taking out an ARM, you are accepting the risk that your payments could rise high enough to bust your budget,'' he said.
 For those who want the savings of an adjustable-rate loan but also want some security, a type of loan called a hybrid ARM might work. In such loans, available with ARM's that adjust yearly, the initial rate can be locked in for 3, 5, 7 or 10 years before the adjustments begin. Such loans -- referred to as 3/1, 5/1, 7/1 and 10/1 hybrid ARM's, respectively -- carry higher rates than regular ARM's. (The monthly adjustables have no lock-in period available.)
 ''If your time horizon is going to be more than, say, seven years, you can take out a 10/1 ARM and lock in the initial rate for 10 years,'' he said.
 The rate difference, or spread, between the ARM and a fixed-rate loan is critical, he said, because it decreases in proportion to the security sought. While the spread for Mr. Chicaferro's one-month adjustable was 3.5 percentage points, the current spread between a fixed-rate loan and a 5/1 ARM is just under 1 percentage point, Mr. Gumbinger said. So the decision depends on the time the borrower expects to keep the loan, the spread, and whether that spread will produce enough savings.
 ''The more you give up in terms of stability,'' he said, ''the bigger your benefit should be.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); MORTGAGE LOANS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

PERSON: Jay Romano

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (57%) NEW MEXICO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



510 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Bit Parts on Screen, and a Salary to Match 

BYLINE: By Betsy Cummings. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LAST year, Kimberly Felipe Villanueva, an aspiring actress, banked nearly $4,000 as an extra. And that, she said, was a windfall. Ms. Villanueva, who has appeared on television and in films, is under no illusions: what she does is not exactly Hollywood at its most glamorous. 
 It rarely is for the thousands of extras, known in the industry as background actors, who lug their wardrobes and makeup to production sets before sunrise or wait in frigid or blistering temperatures for hours on end to earn as little as $150 for 12 hours of work, much of which will go unnoticed by audiences. 
 Clearly, Ms. Villanueva, 29, who loves what she does, is not in this for the money. She has acted since high school and auditioned briefly for various parts after college, but was quickly discouraged by the results. Instead, she worked as an administrative assistant for PaineWebber. Four years ago, however, after Ms. Villanueva dabbled in community theater, her husband encouraged her to quit her $35,000-a-year, 40-hour-a-week job and pursue acting full time. The experience has been thrilling, but rarely lucrative, ever since, she said.
 She is not alone. Most extras do not make enough to pay their bills. No one tracks the exact number of extras in New York City, or even nationwide. Anna Maniscalco-Blasi, a casting director with Grant Wilfley Casting in New York, said she had as many as 15,000 names on file at any given time. 
 ''That needle in the haystack is always there. We're always looking for new talent,'' said Ms. Maniscalco-Blasi, whose company has done work for ''The Sopranos'' and films like the new remake of ''The Manchurian Candidate.''
 The competition for a casting director's notice is fierce. Extra work pays from $75 a day for a nonunion actor in an independent film to $311 for a Screen Actors Guild member with special skills like skating. And the work is generally sporadic, the time between jobs sometimes a span of months. 
 Only 15 percent of guild members make more than $50,000 a year, said Ilyanne Morden Kichaven, national director of communications for the guild. And 80 percent of guild members do not make the $11,000 a year minimum required to qualify for union health benefits.
 Ms. Villanueva, who works part time as an administrative assistant at Showtime, is undeterred. After leaving PaineWebber, ''I started taking acting classes and answering ads in Backstage,'' an industry trade publication, she said. Her efforts soon paid off. 
 A soap opera acting class led to work as an extra and eventually her first ''under five'' role -- a part with five lines of dialogue or fewer, and sometimes none -- on ''One Life to Live.'' She played a police officer and arrested one of the main characters, but never uttered a word. Still, her day rate was higher than if she had just stood in the background: $332 instead of $126. 
 Other jobs are not so rewarding. During the filming of ''Two Weeks Notice,'' a 2002 movie starring Sandra Bullock and Hugh Grant, Ms. Villanueva pulled night shifts. For the three-day shoot, she slept until 2 p.m., woke to style her hair and apply her makeup, then trekked from her Westchester County home in Tuckahoe to a 5 p.m. roll call under the Brooklyn Bridge. She spent the night standing there in freezing temperatures waiting to be plucked from a crowd of extras by production assistants. 
 ''I was lucky,'' she said. ''I got pulled out for four different scenes. But the majority never made it to the film. Night shoots are rough. You really have to want it.''
 She returned at 6 a.m. to greet her husband, Thomas Shay, a computer support specialist, as he was about to leave for work in Midtown Manhattan. 
 Ms. Villanueva, who is Asian-American, says her ethnicity sometimes catches the eye of casting directors in search of a specific look. But getting them to keep her in mind for the next project is still hard work. 
 Her strategy is to diversify, exploring as many acting outlets as possible. She has pursued, with some luck, everything from Off Off Off Broadway plays to voice-overs for commercials recorded in New York, but broadcast only in Texas. Other actors send postcards every other week or e-mail messages with professional photographs of themselves as reminders to casting agents.
 Her family and friends wonder how long she can remain committed for such low pay.
 Indefinitely, Ms. Villanueva says. ''This is a lifelong commitment to me. One way or another, this is what I am and what I do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kimberly Felipe Villanueva left her $35,000-a-year job as an administrative assistant four years ago to pursue acting jobs. She does extra work in films and on television. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MOVIE CASTING (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



511 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The Nation; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Predicting Financial Bubbles

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
HOUSING prices will plunge. Now. This is the conclusion of a growing troupe of economists, who warn that the surge in home prices over the past few years is pumping up a housing bubble that is doomed to implode, prompting a dramatic decline that could cost the economy trillions of dollars in lost wealth. 
 ''The end result will be a loss of $2 to $3 trillion in housing wealth, and a downturn that is even worse than the fallout from the stock market crash,'' wrote Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic Policy Research. 
 But maybe not. 
 Even as the housing market has set more warning bells a-clang, some bubble-skeptic economists dismiss the idea that housing prices are due for a pop. Sure, home prices are high, they say. They might decline somewhat to adjust to rising interest rates. But nothing justifies an uncontrolled plunge.
 The argument is likely to continue -- regardless of what actually happens to the price of homes -- because the argument doesn't really have much to do with housing prices. It is about fundamentally different views of how markets operate. 
 Housing prices have indeed soared. Stoked by some of the lowest interest rates in history, home prices in Los Angeles rose 18 percent in the last year. In Miami, they jumped 14 percent. But do these amount to bubbles? 
 Robert Shiller, the famed Yale economist and bubble-ologist who predicted the end of the dot-com stock boom in his book ''Irrational Exuberance,'' argues that they do. He explains that bubbles are created when the prices of assets are fueled by psychological rather than economic considerations. 
 From apartments in New York to tulips in 17th-century Holland, a bubble is born when people lose sight of the fundamental value of an asset and are willing to pay whatever it takes because they see that prices have risen like crazy and assume they will continue to do so. 
 ''People get excited about price increases and start behaving differently,'' Mr. Shiller says.
 After all, he says, bubbles always pop. Like a Ponzi scheme, a bubble will survive only as long as the herd believes in ever-rising prices. If something pricks this faith, if no next buyer is willing to pay more, the herd will run and the bubble will deflate catastrophically. 
 Take the stock market. From 1996 and to 1999 the price of tech stocks in the Standard & Poor's index rose nearly sevenfold, goaded by dot-com enthusiasts who claimed that a new economy with much improved qualities justified prices previously believed to be impossible.
 Then the herd turned around. By mid-2001, tech stocks had fallen back by 70 percent.
 But despite these dramatic upheavals, not everybody is convinced that bubbles even exist. Peter Garber, a global strategist at Deutsche Bank, believes that psychological explanations like herd behavior are a deus ex machina invoked by economists who do not properly understand the economic underpinnings of the market. 
 Mr. Garber argues that from the Dutch tulip craze to the stock market boom of a few years ago, soaring prices have been justified by economic fundamentals -- be it the earning potential of rare tulips or stocks. 
 Some of the arguments backing the tech boom ultimately proved to be flawed, he acknowledges, but the analysis holding stock prices up -- that productivity had reached a new level and companies would be able to capture this in higher profits -- was reasonable. When stock prices fell, it was because of changes in this underlying business landscape.
 Another bubble-skeptic is Kevin Hassett, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute and co-author of the fabled ''Dow 36,000,'' which was published in 1999 when the Dow Jones index was around 11,000. Mr. Hassett says there is an ideological component to the belief in bubbles. Liberals, who tend to believe that government must step in to protect people from market imperfections, will likely see more of them. Conservatives, who like their markets unfettered, will see less.
 In any case, it's difficult to predict when bubbles may burst. The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, was three years early when he said stocks were irrationally exuberant in 1996. According to Laurence H. Meyer, a governor at the Fed during the rise and pop of the dot-com bubble, Mr. Greenspan gleaned from the experience an undisputable rule to spot asset price effervescence: if stock prices come crashing down by 40 percent or more, it means there was indeed a bubble, and it just burst.
 ''You don't know until its over,'' Mr. Meyer says. ''Or at least until it's too late to intervene and avoid it.''
 Mr. Hassett of the conservative American Enterprise Institute thinks housing prices will be pretty much O.K. He acknowledges there might be some bubble dynamics at play in some regions. But he argues that for the most part people are paying more for homes because their incomes are higher and interest rates are lower, reducing the cost to own a home. 
 Mr. Hassett expects that rising interest rates would raise this cost and home prices would then decline proportionately. But he sees no reason to expect a catastrophic decline. ''I don't think a catastrophe is very likely,'' he says.
 But Mr. Baker argues that house prices have been running faster than inflation since 1995 -- the first time they have done so since World War II. Meanwhile, rental prices are falling in real terms, indicating that demand for housing is weak. And builders are rushing to add new units -- threatening to glut the market.
 Mr. Baker thinks that Mr. Greenspan has been too supportive of the boom in housing prices, and could have made the case that housing prices were starting to behave irrationally.
 Mr. Baker is so convinced that the bubble will burst that two months ago he sold his condo in Washington. 
 ''I would be a fool to hang onto a place through the collapse of a bubble,'' he says.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Scott Menchin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (96%); HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING BUBBLE (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (71%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



512 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; CHRONICLE: FIRST NOVELS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: New Kids on the Block

BYLINE: By Mark Kamine. 
Mark Kamine is a critic whose reviews have appeared in The Times Literary Supplement in London, among other publications. He is the assistant production manager for the television series ''The Sopranos.''

 BODY:
THERE are first novels writers can't seem to match -- Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man'' is the archetype here. There's the posthumous first novel -- John Kennedy Toole's ''Confederacy of Dunces,'' for example -- that makes you wonder what might have been. There are fireplace firsts, books that young writers, sometimes wisely, push into the flames instead of into print. Harry Crews had four novels rejected before publishing ''The Gospel Singer.'' (''Burn it, son,'' one of Crews's writing teachers told him about an early manuscript. ''Fire's a great refiner.'') Contemporary first novels are tougher calls. You weigh the chance of discovering a terrific new voice against the fear of plunking down $24 for an apprentice work. It's safer to wait a few novels, for a reputation to grow. But there's nothing like getting in early. 
 No need to wait on Lucia Nevai. Her novel, SERIOUSLY (Little, Brown, $23.95), is full of elements that might be found in any first novel: a yearning young narrator who's a bit at sea; a tragic family history; a brush with romance; a discovery of vocation. Its protagonist, Tamara Johanssen, has landed in Dustin, a small town in upstate New York. She's on the rebound from a life lived recklessly and demolished early by her crazy mother, who burned down the family's house, killing herself and Tamara's father and younger sister. Tamara's story unfolds episodically. Each chapter focuses on one or two people she has known: the cranky couple who run the local insurance agency; her older sister, Nora, who is a TV producer; her gentlemanly lover, Boz; her trashy but proud neighbor, Glorine. The novel skips back and forth in time, building cumulatively and almost effortlessly, until we arrive at a moment that upends Fellini's ''8 1/2,'' placing Tamara at the center of a group of ex-lovers and admirers. Along the way, Nevai delivers pleasures both large and small in sly, lively prose. She has a neat ability to make her descriptive sentences do double duty as jokes: ''There was Henry in his hat out in back of both our stores, looking for something to take apart and never put back together.'' She has a sure sense of metaphor. (Girls press themselves against a wall until they are ''flat as stickers''; an economy car sounds ''as if the same motor were used in blenders.'') ''There was something sprightly in the technique,'' Tamara says of a drawing she admires. This assured novel -- the author has also published two previous story collections -- is sprightly and then some. Nevai's voice has wisdom and charm, and with ''Seriously'' she announces a large talent. It will be interesting to see where it takes her.
 Judith Claire Mitchell's first novel, THE LAST DAY OF THE WAR (Pantheon, $24.95), is set at the end of World War I and just after. Yael Weiss is 18 and looking for adventure. She finds it when she meets Dub Hagopian, an American soldier with an unlikely name who secretly works for an underground group of Armenian exiles intent on avenging the Turkish massacres of 1915. Yael falls instantly in love with Dub, and in quick succession she falsifies her age, changes her name to Yale White, denies her Jewish heritage and heads overseas, ostensibly as an aid worker but actually in pursuit of Dub. Mitchell's novel tracks Yale, Dub and their associates from St. Louis and Providence to Paris and Berlin, convincingly modulating among characters as various as the dying leader of the Armenian underground, a 13-year-old victim of Turkish abuse and a young German soldier in the formative days of the Nazi Party, all the while keeping her focus on Yale and Dub and the intermingling of their romance with history. 
 The blistering conclusion feels both satisfying and inevitable, thanks to the skill with which Mitchell assembles the pieces of her story and the light touch with which she incorporates thorny issues of prejudice and national identity into what is essentially a historical spy novel. It's a bravura performance, Alan Furst with a dash of Tintin, and Mitchell may have pulled off in her first try that greatest of oxymorons, the intelligent beach book.
 Adam Langer lacks Nevai's consummate craft and Mitchell's pleasing dramatic flair. Yet his ambitious first novel, CROSSING CALIFORNIA (Riverhead, $24.95), hits high points of comic empathy. The geographic and symbolic center of Langer's novel is Chicago's California Avenue, which neatly divides the wealthy Jewish professionals on its west side from the struggling Jews and blacks across the way. The action is bracketed by the Iranian hostage crisis of 1979-81, though only Jill Wasserstrom, an eighth grader, is actively political (she wears a ''Better Red Than Dead'' button to her bat mitzvah). Langer's other characters are enmeshed in personal struggles. Jill's classmate Muley Wills, brilliant and resourceful, spends his time working on animated movies made to impress Jill, with whom he's in love. Jill's sister, Michelle, wants to dominate her high school drama program, and her sometime boyfriend, Larry Rovner, is trying to land a recording contract for his Jewish rock band, Rovner! (One song title: ''It's Not the Meat, It's the Moshe.'') These characters cross paths regularly as they cross and recross California Avenue. More often than not, however, they fail to connect. Langer connects sometimes. His depiction of the ubiquitous and casual racism of the era feels on the money. His portrayal of the Jewish loser Charlie Wasserstrom, no match for his brilliant daughters, is funny and complex. Yet the novel often feels forced and slack -- Langer has an unsteady hand on the rudder. He thoroughly and elaborately exposes the narrow goals and narcissistic motivations of his middle-class Midwestern characters. He now needs to find a more fluent method of bringing them to life.
 When he does, he might ship his recipe south to Mindy Friddle, whose novel, THE GARDEN ANGEL (St. Martin's, $23.95), will please only those who like their soap operas typed out instead of broadcast. Friddle's story of Southern sisters squabbling over a family legacy is sunk both by cliched moments (a desk-clearing sex scene) and cliched writing: ''For once, I imagined a different kind of place in life, from which I could look around and enjoy the view.'' Things are not quite as dire in Mary Helen Stefaniak's novel, THE TURK AND MY MOTHER (Norton, $24.95). This multigenerational story tracks the paths of a handful of Croatians forced by war and other hardships from their Balkan village to Siberia and Milwaukee. Early on, Stefaniak invokes the movie ''Doctor Zhivago,'' and her novel is a folksier, jokier, more down-to-earth version of that historical/literary bodice-ripper. Stefaniak's novel reads, at times, like a not-quite-confident translation: ''It was as if she had dissolved into the air, as if a cloud of her filled the room.'' 
 Seth Kantner's first novel, ORDINARY WOLVES (Milkweed, $22), is a magnificently realized story about a boy's coming-of-age in a difficult, distant place. Cutuk Hawcly, along with his brother and his sister, has been dragged to Alaska by his dropout dad, Abe, an artistic Luddite; he mixes Eskimo ethos and ecology as he raises his children in a bunkerlike house miles from civilization. Mail-order textbooks are small hurdles for kids schooled in surviving subzero winters on a diet of caribou pelvis and other local meats eaten ''dried, cooked, raw or frozen'' in the midst of mice, moose, shrews, hungry wolves and rabid foxes. During periodic visits (by dogsled) to the Inupiaq village of Takunak, Cutuk learns what it's like to be an outsider as Eskimo children taunt and fight with him for being ''dumb'' and ''white,'' lessons he'll learn all over again when he grows up and moves for a time to Anchorage. There, backwoods smarts can't help him with malls and town girls. There are some hilarious moments. A cute Eskimo girl named Dawna asks Cutuk, ''You ever try Pralines 'n' Cream?'' Cutuk doesn't reply, ''in case it was a common narcotic or some kind of bent-over sex everyone else had had.'' ''Ordinary Wolves'' has scope and a style to match its subjects, the wide-open spaces of Alaska and youth, and Kantner, who was born and raised in the Alaska wilderness, manages along the way to touch on the dissolution and devastation visited upon the state's native population, the youthful yearning for experience and guidance and the abiding love of an odd, isolated frontier family. His novel comes across as smart and authentic. It's hard to imagine a better start.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); FAMILY (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (55%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Mark Kamine; Lucia Nevai; Judith Claire Mitchell; Adam Langer; Mindy Friddle; Mary Helen Stefaniak; Seth Kantner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



513 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Column 1; Boston 2004; POLITICAL BOSTON; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Before Gay Marriage, There Was Busing

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

 BODY:
AS the lovely crescent of sand bordering Boston Harbor known as Carson Beach slowly began filling up on a fine Saturday morning, a lone young black woman, her hair in braids, jogged steadily along the pathway.
 A stocky white man, wearing a T-shirt with a faded shamrock from a years-ago St. Patrick's Day celebration, pushed a baby stroller with nary a glance at a young black man in dreadlocks lounging on a park bench talking animatedly into his cellphone.
 Unremarkable, it might seem. But this is South Boston, the symbol of bitter racial conflict 30 years ago over court-ordered busing for integration. And Carson Beach was the scene of one of its ugliest confrontations as city and state police officers struggled for hours to separate whites and blacks fighting over who could use the beach. 
 And so to a reporter who covered that crisis, sipping coffee from a cardboard container in front of the old yellow Southie High early in the morning as white residents gathered to stone the school buses carrying black children, the scene at Carson Beach was a startling snapshot of how much Boston, and particularly South Boston, had changed.
 ''The people here are very nice, they seem to smile a lot,'' said Jessica Reyes, 16, brown-skinned and born after the turmoil, who visits the beach nearly every day from neighboring Dorchester with her 3-year-old niece. ''I couldn't imagine people looking at me bad.''
 It was not always thus.
 On June 21, 1974, Judge W. Arthur Garrity of Federal District Court, citing a decade's worth of scheming by the all-white elected school board to maintain segregation, ordered a busing plan into effect to integrate the schools, starting with South Boston.
 Southie, as it was known, was an almost entirely Irish, working-class neighborhood, resentful of outsiders, particularly the hated Yankee Brahmins they blamed for oppressing them from the moment they arrived in flight from the potato famine of the 1840's. 
 ''Boston is a city of neighborhoods,'' I wrote back then. ''Beyond the cosmopolitan center of town lie distinct, clearly defined neighborhoods bracketed by ethnic origin and economic status.''
 That first day of busing, coaches arrived from the black Roxbury section, and they were greeted with jeers, curses, upthrust middle fingers, rocks. In the afternoon, a bus made a wrong turn, blundered into a crowd and was heavily stoned. The last group of black students had to be evacuated in a windowless patrol wagon. 
 One day that fall a Haitian immigrant, Andre Jean Louis, who spoke no English, was on his way to pick up his wife from her job at a laundry when he got stuck behind a truck at the edge of Southie. A mob was milling. ''There's one, get him,'' someone shouted, and the crowd pounced. The police finally rescued him. Deputy Superintendent Charley Barry, his white command shirt flecked with blood, cradled the man.
 That is why the now common sight of blacks and Hispanics on the streets of South Boston, and in its once all-white housing projects, is so striking.
 One result of the busing order was a white exodus. There were 45,000 white students in the public schools in 1974; today the figure is 8,431, or 14 per cent of the total. Blacks made up 20 percent of the population of roughly 600,000 in 1974 and the rest was mostly white. Today, the same size population is 50.5 percent black, Asian or Hispanic. 
 But the neighborhood has been resilient. And with its beach and close proximity to central Boston, it is being discovered by yuppies. Real estate agents offer condominiums for a half-million dollars or more, including some carved out of the souring gothic spaces in what was once one of the neighborhood's largest parishes, the Church of Saints Peter and Paul.
 ''I think as a city we grew up,'' said Peter Meade, who was a top young aide to Mayor Kevin H. White during the height of the busing crisis and is now the president of Massachusetts Blue Cross and Blue Shield. ''We're an awful lot better now.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The police escorting school buses in South Boston on Sept. 16, 1974. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); MARRIAGE (87%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (74%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); CITY LIFE (69%); FAMINE (68%); SCHOOL BOARDS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%) Education and Schools; Buses; Discrimination; Blacks

PERSON: John Kifner

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



514 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; If It Walks Like a Cop; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Old Field and Patchogue Constabularies Are Accused of Illegally Operating as Police Forces

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
HIS roof lights were flashing and he wore a blue uniform, and when he pulled William Walcott over on West Meadow Road in Old Field on a February afternoon four years ago Mr. Walcott assumed he was dealing with a police officer.
 ''He comes strutting over with his hand on his gun, and he wants my license and registration,'' said Mr. Walcott, now 73, a retired real estate broker who was driving home to Stony Brook when he was stopped. ''I say 'What for?' And he says, 'You were speeding,' and I say, 'I was approaching a four-way stop sign. How could I be speeding?'''
 It did not occur to Mr. Walcott or hundreds of other drivers ticketed in the exclusive, upper-income village over the years that the person at their window might not really be a police officer at all but an employee of a village government that knowingly maintained a constabulary that was illegally stopping motorists on public roads and issuing traffic tickets. 
 That, at least, is the central charge in a class action lawsuit that a Smithtown lawyer, Jonathan C. Scott, filed in State Supreme Court in Riverhead last month against the village. ''It's all so sophisticated and these people are so close in appearance to police that most motorists don't have any idea that it's a village holding itself out as having a police force when they don't have any right to do that,'' Mr. Scott said.
 In the lawsuit against Old Field, in which Mr. Walcott is one of four named plaintiffs, and in a similar class action against the Village of Patchogue, where village constables give out traffic tickets, Mr. Scott argues that both villages irrevocably signed over policing powers to the Suffolk County Police Department in the late 1950's when they voted to become part of the county police district. Mr. Scott has also filed a federal complaint making similar accusations against the Village of Belle Terre.
 For village constables or code enforcement officers to hand out tickets, the suits say, crosses the line into police work reserved to the county force, which alone has the power to enforce state vehicle and traffic laws.
 If, in a decision that is probably still months away, a judge allows the class actions to proceed, the villages could be obliged to reimburse all motorists who got tickets and paid fines since 1994, as far back as the state statute of limitations allows. The two state suits also seek $8 million in damages from each village.
 Officials in the two villages said last week that they had done nothing wrong and had little concern about the suit. In March, Judge Arthur Spatt of United States District Court in Central Islip dismissed charges Mr. Scott attempted to bring against Old Field under the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations statute. 
 ''It would seem to me that after losing the case in federal court he is now trying to bring another action in state court in order to seek publicity,'' said Cary Staller, the mayor of Old Field and a lawyer. ''If you compare both complaints they are essentially the same.''
 Mr. Staller said the village employed about a dozen part-time code enforcement officers. ''Everything they do is legal,'' he said. He said that while the village officers had given out tickets in the past they no longer did, but that he could not recall when or why ticketing ceased. ''There was just no need for it,'' he said. 
 ''I don't think it was ever that huge an issue,'' he said. ''I think Jonathan Scott is trying to make it into a big issue.''
 Lee Snead, the Patchogue village attorney, said the village code gave the power to enforce traffic laws to its constables, who number about 18. ''To my understanding there has not been any directive stating that they do not have the power, nor has a court of competent jurisdiction told the village that it doesn't have such enforcement powers,'' Mr. Snead said.
 But Mr. Scott said the villages had been put on notice repeatedly over the years that they were acting illegally, and two top Suffolk officials corroborated his assertion.
 Alan Schneider, the county's personnel director and the official empowered to oversee civil service law for all jurisdictions in Suffolk, confirmed that the county had cautioned Old Field to stop handing out tickets.
 ''They should not be doing what they are doing,'' he said. ''They are enforcing the state vehicle and traffic laws, which is only supposed to be done by Suffolk County police officers.'' Asked if it was an illegal act for a village constable or code enforcement officer to pull over and ticket a motorist in either village, Mr. Schneider replied, ''That's correct.''
 John McElhone, the chief of patrol for the Suffolk County Police Department, said villages in the police district that ticketed went beyond legitimate code enforcement and were a concern. 
 ''I am uncomfortable with that,'' he said. ''Code enforcement is supposed to be enforcing the town or village code, and in the case of the villages of Old Field and Patchogue, they voted in the county police department and the county charter says we are the police agency for those areas.''
 ''Code enforcement in most jurisdictions is about zoning, noise, unleashed dogs and things like that,'' he said. ''When they start doing vehicle and traffic stops and cover it by saying they are enforcing the village code, I think are encroaching onto an area of policing.''
 Mr. Scott cited a provision in the state vehicle and traffic law that appeared to prohibit local governments from duplicating the law in local laws such as village codes.
 ''The state has a traffic code which sets all the regulations, and there is an explicit provision that says as a matter of state law no lower level of government may duplicate the provisions,'' he said.
 Even though traffic tickets written by the village employees in Old Field and Patchogue were invalid, Mr. Scott said, there was a high probability the State Department of Motor Vehicles would suspend a driver's license if village officials reported the driver had failed to answer an appearance ticket or pay a fine. 
 Joseph Picchi, a D.M.V. spokesman, declined to confirm or deny that the state accepted the validity of tickets issued by Old Field or Patchogue as valid. ''D.M.V. will accept a ticket that has an appropriate number that is assigned by law enforcement and we will suspend a driver's license if that ticket is not answered,'' he said. But he would not say whether either village had the type of numbers he referred to.
 But the lawsuit against Old Field charges that the village continued to use a law enforcement agency number on its tickets even though the state police and the federal Department of Justice retired the number in 1986 after a Justice Department investigation found that the village constabulary was not an authorized law enforcement agency. 
 Mr. Schneider, the Suffolk personnel director, said Old Field and some other villages complained that they needed more traffic enforcement. ''I don't want to defend Old Field, but some of these villages have been saying they can't get the coverage that we need from the Suffolk County Police Department, so in the interests of their local taxpayers they have been trying to cut down on accidents and speeding, etcetera, etcetera, by handing out traffic violations.''
 Mr. Scott suggested that Old Field might be trying to discourage outsiders from entering the village. ''That is one of the issues we are going to be looking at in the litigation,'' he said. ''Old Field is a very expensive, exclusive area, and part of what may be driving the continuation of this private police force is a desire on the part of certain residents to exclude what they consider to be people from lower social status or economic group.''
 Mr. Staller, the Old Field mayor, said this was both untrue and not mentioned in court papers filed by Mr. Scott. ''We don't try to keep people out,'' he said. ''It's not a gated community.'' 
 Mr. Scott suggested a different dynamic might be at work in the Patchogue, a blue-collar area. ''You have a fairly large number of non-primary-English speaking people that are in and about in the Village of Patchogue,'' he said. ''If you were to go to their village justice court and watch the proceedings, you would see that there are large numbers of Spanish-speaking people and people for whom English is not their primary language who are being given tickets by constables.''
 Mr. Snead, the village attorney, said Mr. Scott was misinformed. ''He hasn't pleaded that and it is not in fact happening,'' he said. ''The village has a large Hispanic population so it is not uncommon that some or even a great number of defendants would be Hispanic.'' Mr. Scott's suit against Old Field charges that three of the four plaintiffs faced fines of up to $150 after being ticketed for driving 41 miles an hour in an area of the village with a speed limit of 30 miles an hour. The fourth plaintiff was fined $77 for failing to come to a full stop at a stop sign. All paid fines to the village justice court.
 Mr. Walcott, one of the plaintiffs ticketed for speeding, said he initially pleaded not guilty and went to the village court three times to appear before a village justice. ''They wouldn't hear my case,'' he said. ''I sat there three hours each night watching the village clerk collecting money from people.''
 On his third visit to court, Mr. Walcott said, a lawyer he believed represented the village eventually suggested that he plead guilty to a lesser offense of not wearing his seatbelt, even though Mr. Walcott contends he had been wearing it. 
 ''The only way I was going to see the judge was by pleading guilty,'' he said. ''But when I pleaded guilty, the judge wasn't interested in hearing anything. I wanted to fight it but it was a stacked deck as far as I am concerned.'' He paid a $50 fine.
 Looking back, Mr. Walcott said he felt he was the victim of what he called a village moneymaking machine. ''It was highway robbery,'' he said. ''They had the police car, the gun, the uniform, so you go along with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: PATCHOGUE AND OLD FIELD face lawsuits that say their constables are illegally exercising police powers in the enforcement of state vehicle and traffic laws. An Old Field constable on patrol, above, and Alexander Costello, left, enforcing a bikes-on-sidewalks ban in Patchogue. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Alexander Costello, a Patchogue constable who, according to a suit, cannot issue traffic tickets, with his ticket book on Main Street. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); DAMAGES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%) Police; Roads and Traffic; Suits and Litigation; Traffic Violations

PERSON: John Rather; Jonathan Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Oldfield (Ny); Patchogue (NY); Suffolk County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



515 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Albertson, Long Island; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Tucked Away in the Middle of Everything

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
THERE is for some a gleeful pleasure in living somewhere people can't quite place, particularly when that somewhere is in the middle of one of the region's oldest suburbs.
 One such community is Albertson, a chip-sized, verdant hamlet of single-family Capes, cottages, ranches and colonials near the southern edge of the Town of North Hempstead in Nassau County. It doesn't help that it has a name that sounds more like Kansas than Long Island. 
 ''People always say, 'Albertson, I haven't heard of that,' '' said Edward Escobar, a school administrator who moved in 11 years ago. ''That I find pretty funny.'' 
 Home prices in the hamlet are distinctly Long Island, and maybe not so funny if you're a buyer, though they are still moderate when compared with those in many other parts of the notoriously high-priced town. The hamlet is one of many in Nassau where the upward climb of real estate appears to spring from a coveted location, sought-after schools and good transportation to the city. In recent years, low interest rates have kicked the market into overdrive and fueled a wave of expansions and renovations that have left few equity-rich homes untouched. 
 One makeover on the market is a Cape built in 1950 and recently renovated to add a new kitchen, central air-conditioning and hardwood floors. The four-bedroom and two-bathroom house, on a 60-by-100-foot lot, was listed at $589,000. Taxes were $5,981. 
 Knockdowns have become increasingly common in Albertson. ''What's going on is an investor comes in, sees a small house, buys it and tears it down, and puts up a much bigger house,'' said Evelyn Atanas, the owner and a broker at Atanas Realty in neighboring Williston Park. ''And the prices on these new houses are just going through the roof.'' 
 Prices are already rising above $400,000 for even pint-sized Capes and can hover around $1 million for the stucco-faced colonial contemporaries that have replaced them. Lots across the hamlet are typically 40 to 60 feet by 100 feet.
 Steve De Pinto, the branch manager for Century 21 Laffey Associates in Williston Park, said the last of the larger lots that had room for two houses had been filled in during an earlier development phase that ended seven or eight years ago.
 The Town of North Hempstead, which holds zoning powers in unincorporated Albertson, has been trying to accommodate expansions and knockdowns without letting them run amok.
 David Wasserman, the town's building department commissioner, said zoning ordinances imposed size and height restrictions on new and expanded dwellings based on lot sizes. 
 Mr. Wasserman said trends in Albertson were much the same as in other unincorporated areas of the town and elsewhere in the county. ''Nassau is the oldest, most mature and most fully developed suburb in all of America, and now it is morphing, so to speak, to meet the needs of today's population,'' he said. 
 Mr. Escobar, an assistant principal at Mineola High School, and his wife, Celia, a pediatrician, had been living in an apartment in Kew Gardens, Queens, before buying an expanded Cape for $235,000 in January 1993. The house is in the Mineola school district, one of three school districts whose lines crisscross the hamlet. In the current market, it would be worth about twice as much. 
 The couple decided to move here, Mr. Escobar said, for the schools -- their oldest son is going into seventh grade at Mineola Middle School -- and to be closer to work. Dr. Escobar has an office nearby.
 What they liked, he said, was being able to walk to stores on Willis Avenue, the hamlet's main north-to-south thoroughfare, while being only a relatively short drive or train ride from the city. ''It's a very easy trip into Manhattan,'' Mr. Escobar said. 
 Albertson has its own Long Island Rail Road station and is not far south of the Long Island Expressway and Northern State Parkway. The train takes less than an hour to Midtown Manhattan, and the roads not much more than an hour when traffic permits.
 A 60-unit condominium for people 55 and older has a waiting list for one- and two-bedroom units that sell for about $240,000 to $300,000. There are no other condominiums or apartment complexes. Rentals, a small part of the market, range from about $2,500 to $3,500 a month for a small house to $1,200 to $1,600 for one- or two-bedroom apartments within a house.
 A Waldbaum's supermarket anchors a string of shops in a Willis Avenue shopping center. Roosevelt Field, Long Island's largest regional shopping mall, is a short drive away. John D. Caemmerer Park, a town park on the southern edge of the hamlet, has tennis and basketball courts, ball fields and a playground. 
 Some young families discover Albertson in the course of searching for homes within a chosen school district. Generally, locations in western areas of the hamlet -- within the highly regarded Herricks Union Free School District -- add to home values. Some 88 percent of the district's 301 graduates in 2003 went on to four-year colleges; another 9 percent enrolled in two-year colleges. Average scores on the SAT reasoning test in 2003 were 554 in the verbal test, compared with a statewide average of 496; and 612 in math, compared with 510 statewide. 
 The district has three elementary schools for kindergarten through fifth grade, a middle school for Grades 6 through 8, and Herricks High School.
 The 2,900-student Mineola Union Free School District has four elementary schools for Grades 1 through 5, a new school for pre-kindergarten and kindergarten students that opened in 2003, a middle school for Grades 6 through 8, and Mineola High School. In 2003, 65 percent of the high school's 172 graduates continued their education at four-year colleges; 25 percent went on to two-year colleges. Average SAT scores in 2003 were 504 in verbal and 530 in math. A small area in the hamlet's southeast corner known as Albertson Downs is in the East Williston school district. 
 The first settlements in the Albertson area date to around 1650. Early settlers included the Albertsons, who were farmers, millers and large landowners. In the early 1800's, a gristmill operated by Townsend Albertson bestowed the name Albertson Square on the area. The Long Island Rail Road, which arrived in 1864, shortened it to Albertson, the name that has endured. 
 The area remained agricultural well into the 1900's. In 1946, the developer William Levitt, tuning up for mass production at Levittown a year later, built Capes and ranches on farmland he bought in the hamlet, and soon cows and chickens and farms were no more. By the 1960's, Albertson was a fully developed suburb. 
 An important oasis of open space remains at the Clark Botanic Garden on I. U. Willets Road, a 12-acre, entirely organic center for horticultural education and research. The garden is a legacy from Grenville Clark, a resident who donated the land in Albertson to the Brooklyn Botanic Garden in 1966 in memory of his wife, Fanny Dwight Clark, an amateur horticulturist. In 1989, the Town of North Hempstead took over the garden. There is no admission fee, but a $2 voluntary donation is requested. Don't bring the dog. 
 Carol Munoz, a New York City schoolteacher, moved to Albertson with her husband, Chris Munoz, a sheet metal foreman, about a year ago. They had been living in neighboring Williston Park, and came to know Albertson by taking walks there. Mrs. Munoz said they paid $390,000 for a 1920's colonial with three bedrooms, one bathroom and one half-bathroom and a 40-by-100-foot lot in the Mineola school district. The French doors in the living room were the clincher for her, she said.
 ''What we really liked was that the houses were all different,'' Mrs. Munoz said. ''And it's nice to see a lot of people are adding to their houses instead of moving because that means they like the place.''
 She agreed with Mr. Escobar that the name Albertson often didn't sound familiar to people. ''They say, 'Oh, I don't know where that is,' '' she said. ''And that might be a good thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOOKING UP -- While housing prices have been rising in Albertson, on Long Island, they are still considered moderate when compared with prices in other parts of the Town of North Hempstead.
On the Market: EVANS AVENUE -- This newly constructed house, at 122 Evans Avenue, has four bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths. $889,000. Information: (516) 747-3701.
TAFT PLACE -- This house, at 5 Taft Place, has three bedrooms, two baths, a detached garage and a backyard cottage. $569,000. Information: (516) 747-3701.
HILLVALE ROAD -- This house, at 49 Hillvale Road, has four bedrooms, two baths and an unfinished basement. $459,900. Information: (516) 747-3701. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)Chart: ''GAZETTEER''GazetteerPOPULATION: 5,200AREA: 0.66 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $66,516MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $494,000MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $475,000MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $290,000TAX ON A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $7,333SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: Herricks school district, $15,403
 Mineola school district, $21,018.DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 23 milesCOMMUTING TIME TO MIDTOWN: 40 to 50 minutes on Long Island Rail Road from Albertson, $8.75 one way, $61 weekly, $192 monthly.NUMBER OF TRAINS TO PENN STATION EVERY WEEKDAY: 17Map of Nassau, Long Island highlighting Albertson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (77%); ORDINANCES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); HVAC SYSTEMS (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Geographic Profiles; Housing

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Albertson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



516 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2577 words

HEADLINE: The Tech Lobby, Calling Again

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN; Elizabeth Ahlin contributed reporting from Palo Alto, Calif., for this article.

DATELINE: San Francisco 

 BODY:
SOME politicians flew from Washington, D.C., to Silicon Valley because they were simply curious. Others in Congress hauled themselves west because they saw a plentiful supply of cash.
 Their motivations may have differed. But by the end of the 1990's, when the technology lobbying group called TechNet started playing host to an annual retreat so that Silicon Valley's top names could rub shoulders with members of Congress, most politicians did not need a second invitation, no matter what their home district.
 ''Back then you had everyone in Congress wanting to be known as a technology person,'' said Rick White, the president of TechNet, who served three terms in the House in the 1990's. ''Everybody from every farm district in Iowa felt like they had to prove they were a technology member of Congress.'' 
 That was before the bubble popped. Today, TechNet, like other advocacy groups, has its lobbying gatherings in Washington, not Silicon Valley. Contingents of technology executives travel to the offices of various Congressional leaders, not the other way around. 
 Even when they are campaigning in their districts these days, a tech photo opportunity no longer seems obligatory. ''In the late 1990's, if you gave a politician a choice of posing in front of a semiconductor or at an old-economy factory, they wouldn't hesitate to head for the semiconductor site,'' said Dan Schnur, a political consultant based in Sacramento who was then one of TechNet's two political directors.''Now it's more like six of one, half a dozen of the other.'' Mr. Schnur says he has worked on the political campaigns of candidates who have ''opted for the old-economy photo ops.''
 Yet the political stock of technology may again be on the rise. Last week, the industry won a surprising vote in the House of Representatives on the issue of whether companies have to count stock options as a normal business expense. Although a fight still looms in the Senate, the House vote symbolized a re-energized effort to exert influence on Capitol Hill. 
 Until the past few weeks, that proposed rule change, championed by an accounting standards body, was the most telling sign that tech had lost its political mojo. Options are a stake in the future of one's own company; they are worth something only if the value of a company's stock rises. 
 As people in Silicon Valley tell it, requiring companies to reflect the estimated cost of options on their books would stifle the area's entrepreneurial spirit, dampening economic growth. No issue has riled the valley more than this one, yet the conventional wisdom has held that it is only a matter of time before the change is made.
 Technology companies have reacted in a variety of ways. Amazon.com announced that it would voluntarily expense options, and Microsoft decided to do away with stock options and grant employees actual shares in the company. Elsewhere, Warren E. Buffett and Alan Greenspan have lined up opposite Silicon Valley on this issue.
 In March, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, a private group that sets accounting practices, proposed that companies, beginning in 2005, no longer be allowed to avoid expensing the cost of stock options. The Securities and Exchange Commission could overrule the accounting board, but the S.E.C. chairman, William H. Donaldson, has already signaled that he supports the change. In the past, Congress has also proved unwilling to overrule the accounting board. 
 Until last week, Silicon Valley's big political victory on this front was in the form of stray comments from both the chairman of the accounting board and the chief accountant of the S.E.C. that they might be willing to delay a change in the rules until 2006.
 But on Tuesday, the tech lobby flexed its muscle in a way that prompts one to wonder whether Silicon Valley is again perceived inside the Beltway as much more than just another cash-rich industry. The House voted 312 to 111 to pass a bill backed by TechNet and a long list of Silicon Valley companies, including Intel and Cisco Systems. It would trump the looming stock-options rule change, requiring companies to count only those options granted to its top five employees.
 The tech lobby, however, must still win in the Senate, where the bill's prospects appear slim, and then secure the support of President Bush. So, ultimately, the House vote may be nothing but a cruel reminder to Silicon Valley of its former powers. But even those favoring a rule change say they were surprised by tech's impressive showing in the House, and wonder what so lopsided a victory may portend.
 ''I guess you can say we're not quite dead,'' said Jeff Peck, the chief lobbyist for the International Employee Stock Options Coalition, a group formed to fight the accounting board's proposal.
 UNTIL the mid-1990's, politics was a foreign subject to executives at most technology companies -- just as software, hardware and the Internet were foreign concepts to most members of Congress. 
 ''There was benign neglect on both sides, Washington and Silicon Valley,'' said Chris Larsen, the co-founder of E-Loan, an online financial site. ''The valley generally took the attitude, 'As long as they ain't in my face, just ignore them.'''
 An earlier fight over stock options, in 1994, first demonstrated to many Silicon Valley executives that political apathy could come at a cost. ''Tech didn't really have any kind of presence in Washington, so the stock-options proposal was really pretty far along before we even knew what was going on,'' Tom Proulx, a co-founder of Intuit, the finance software firm, said in an interview in 1998, when he was one of Silicon Valley's leading political voices. ''We basically did a lot of scrambling to do whatever we could to stop it.''
 In the end, the Senate voted 88 to 9 to preserve a company's right to handle options any way it wants -- probably despite tech, rather than because of it. ''Back then there were many forces organized against the idea of expensing stock options,'' said Paul Hodgson, a senior research associate at the Corporate Library, one of the groups most vocal in its support of a change in the accounting rules this year. ''The resistance is much more localized to the tech crowd now.''
 Another few years would pass before the technology industry would organize itself politically. The impetus was an initiative on the California ballot in November 1996 that would have made it easier to sue publicly traded companies in the state on behalf of its shareholders. That change would have been felt most acutely in the highly volatile tech sector, which raised $40 million to fight the measure. 
 The Technology Network, or TechNet, was founded in 1997, shortly after California voters soundly defeated that ballot initiative. The group represents 150 chief executives and venture capitalists, most of them based in Silicon Valley. 
 ''Our pitch back then was this was an opportunity to support and foster a new environment that was creating high-paying jobs that were merit-oriented, multicultural and clean,'' said Wade Randlett, a founder of TechNet and the group's first full-time employee. ''We were going to be this 100-years jobs engine for the country, or so we all earnestly believed.''
 Some politicians no doubt traveled to Silicon Valley to associate themselves with the glamour and magic of the Internet. Others, though, were drawn to the gold that seemed so readily available back then. 
 More than two dozen senators and House members showed up for a 1999 TechNet event that Mr. Randlett helped to organize.
 ''When the valley was on its way up and the money was at its high point, political interests chased it as aggressively as I've ever seen in my 20 years of politics,'' said Mr. Randlett, now the chief executive of Dashboard Technology, a Web design firm based in San Francisco. ''People came through here as often as they could, finding any excuse to do so.''
 In 1994, computer and Internet companies ranked 44th among all industries in terms of political giving, contributing a total of $4.3 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington. By 2000, that number had ballooned to $16.5 million, good for eighth place. Already this year, the industry has made $13.3 million in contributions, though its ranking has fallen to 14th.
 ''Back in the late 1990's, Silicon Valley assumed that all they had to do is show up and politicians would fall at their feet, and for a while they were right,'' Mr. Schnur said. ''Now it takes a checkbook to get that meeting.'' In early 2002, people started warning Mr. White, the TechNet president, that the fallout from scandals at Enron and other companies would breathe life into the long-dormant stock options proposal. But he refused to listen.
 ''I basically told them, 'No way, I don't see the connection between Enron and the expensing-options issue,''' Mr. White said. ''Then, literally a month later, we were scrambling to keep it out of one of the Senate bills, and we've been playing catch-up ever since.''
 IF tech needed a sign of how much the situation had changed after the industry bust, the options issue provided it. In the late 1990's, the industry won far more political battles than it lost. Congress overturned restrictions on encryption exports, an issue that was important to many technology companies, and passed the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and a bill in anticipation of year-2000 computer problems that led to billions in sales for technology companies.
 By 2002, technology lobbyists were lucky if they got inside the door of a congressman's office. Mr. Peck, the lobbyist for the industry, said that many members of Congress ''wouldn't even take meetings, and if they did they said it's an executive greed issue, see you later.''
 The year-2000 computer issue, in particular, appeared to leave a bad taste in the mouth of some members of Congress. ''You'd hear about Y2K all the time back then,'' said a lobbyist for a technology company who requested that his name not be used for fear that his comments could hinder him in his job. ''You had all these developing countries that didn't experience any Y2K problems, and so they saw our big victory as hollow. I think a lot of members felt burned.''
 The more visceral problem of watching one's own net worth decline may also have played a part. ''Let's face it, just like a lot of people in this country, lots of congressmen lost a lot of money when the bubble burst, and tech played a big part in that,'' this lobbyist said.
 Still, in summer 2002, the Senate blocked a pair of amendments that would have required companies to deduct the estimated cost of stock options from their reported profits, but Silicon Valley could hardly count itself a winner. The Financial Accounting Standards Board seemed intent on seeing through a rule change it had dropped reluctantly in the mid-1990's, only because of the prevailing politics of the time. 
 And while the Senate had demonstrated that it was reluctant to delve into the nitty-gritty of accounting practices, no matter how palpable the backlash in 2002 against corporate excess, it didn't look as if Silicon Valley could muster the votes it would take in both the House and the Senate to overrule the accounting board.
 The Senate presents a particularly formidable roadblock. For starters, it is not clear that the Senate will even take up the bill. The issue of expensing options falls under the jurisdiction of the Senate Banking Committee, and its chairman, Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, has repeatedly said that Congress should not interfere with those whose job it is to ensure the integrity of corporate earnings statements. Yet those who oppose the expensing of options are hoping that the bipartisan nature of the House vote last week will persuade the Senate to circumvent the Banking Committee and take up a vote on the Senate floor after the August recess. In the House, the industry-backed bill won a majority among both Republicans and Democrats. 
 ''That massive bipartisan vote got a lot of people's attention, especially in the current climate when bipartisanship is so rare,'' said Mr. White of TechNet.
 To him, the fact that the debate is still alive demonstrates that tech is regaining its political power. 
 Yet Joseph A. Grundfest, a former S.E.C. commissioner and now a professor at Stanford Law School, looks at the political landscape and comes to the opposite conclusion.
 ''This bill would be going to the floor of the Senate'' if tech still had its power, said Mr. Grundfest, who is on the board of Oracle, the database giant based in Silicon Valley. ''If this was the automobile industry, the bill would be going to the floor. If this was the steel industry, the bill would be going to the floor. If this was the agriculture industry, the bill would already have been.''
 Moreover, Mr. Grundfest is inclined to dismiss the House vote last week as largely symbolic. ''The Senate had made clear noises that this bill is going nowhere, so therefore it was a very low-cost vote for any House member wanting to win some easy points with tech,'' he said.
 The lobbyist who requested anonymity said: ''I think tech is just one industry among many at this point. At this point, we can get the meetings, but there's no longer any P.R. advantage to being associated with the tech industry.''
 The bill would also require the president's signature. Where Mr. Bush stands on the matter, however, is not certain. After a political event on Thursday on Hewlett-Packard's corporate campus in Palo Alto, Calif., Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans declined to spell out the president's position but said, ''We're pleased the S.E.C. continues to work on this issue.''
 IN another time, a cabinet member might have traveled to Silicon Valley just to voice the president's support for all things technology. But to Mr. White, this new reality suggests that his life won't be quite as charmed as it might have been just a few years ago.
 ''I don't think we're the golden boy that we were in 1999,'' Mr. White said. ''On the other hand, people still associate tech with the future prosperity of the country. People still do believe we're going to be a key part of keeping our country competitive.''
 That sentiment was echoed by Bruce P. Mehlman, who was the assistant secretary of commerce for technology policy under the current President Bush until May, when he left to start a lobbying firm , Mehlman & Vogel. Mr. Mehlman, who worked at Cisco Systems on policy issues, describes what he calls a ''C.E. ratio'' -- a clout-to-effort ratio.
 ''While our clout is certainly less than it was during the bubble era, our clout-to-effort ratio remains higher than any other sector I know,'' he said. Why that may be, though, is in doubt. Where Mr. Mehlman cites the respect that politicians have for the brain power of tech's top leaders, Auren Hoffman, a San Francisco-based entrepreneur who is the chairman of a young Republicans organization called Lead21, sees money as the prime motivator.
 ''I think there's some hipness that rubs off if you get close to tech,'' said Mr. Hoffman, whose Web site says he founded and sold three software companies before the age of 30. ''But I don't think political staffers are saying, 'You should be friends with well-known people in Silicon Valley because of the hipness factor.' I think they're saying, 'You should reach out as a long-run strategy for raising funds.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees of technology companies rallied in Palo Alto, Calif., last month in support of accounting rules that favor the awarding of stock options. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
Rick White, of TechNet, a lobbying group for the technology industry, testified at a House subcommittee meeting this month. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. 4)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (85%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BONDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (65%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%) Computers and the Internet; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Stocks and Bonds; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Technet (Orgn)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



517 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Could That Rally Be Partisan?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WITH the Democrats ready to start their convention tomorrow -- and the Republicans to follow at the end of August -- punters may be looking for stocks whose performance during these quadrennial extravaganzas has tended to be particularly Republican or Democratic.
 One way to filter for party leanings is to look at how the 10 best and 10 worst performers in the market's main indexes behaved during past convention weeks. Admittedly, factors other than the preordained results of the conventions are likely to move stocks. Still, in 2000, using the best and worst performers from the current constituents of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the Nasdaq 100 and the Dow Jones industrial average, there were 14 stocks whose performance could be called partisan. 
 Nine seemed to like Democrats, by falling during the Republican meeting in Philadelphia from July 31 to Aug. 3, and rising during the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles from Aug. 14 to 17. They were Novellus Systems, Analog Devices, Teradyne, Advanced Micro Devices, KLA-Tencor, Lam Research, Applied Materials, Intel and Verizon Communications. The declines ranged from 14 percent for Teradyne to 0.1 percent for Verizon. The rallies ranged from 35 percent for Novellus to 1 percent for Verizon. Teradyne rose 24 percent during the Democratic session; Novellus fell 12 percent during the Republican one.
 Five stocks rallied for the Republicans but swooned for the Democrats. They were First Health Group, Walt Disney, J.P. Morgan Chase (before the merger was announced), American Express and McDonald's. The gains were from 5 to 18 percent, while the declines were 2 to 10 percent.
 Only three stocks in this screening rose during both conventions. They were Citigroup, Altria (then Philip Morris) and Hewlett-Packard (before its merger with Compaq). There were three losers -- Microsoft, Wal-Mart and Coca-Cola, all of which fell for the Democrats and the Republicans. 

NEW DATA -- On Friday, investors get their first look at second-quarter economic growth. Bloomberg News's consensus estimate is that the gross domestic product grew at a 3.7 percent annual rate, down from a 3.9 percent clip in the first quarter.
 But investors will probably focus more on the annual pace of inflation in the second quarter. It is expected to be 3 percent, versus 2.9 percent in the first quarter.
 Another inflation barometer is the quarterly Employment Cost Index -- a gauge of labor expenses for businesses and government -- that is due on Thursday. Forecasters expect it to show a climb of 0.9 percent, after a 1.1 percent increase in the first quarter. The report, Lehman Brothers economists said in a report, will attract attention because of the investor focus on ''trends in wages and prices.'' But Lehman economists say that in the near term, the growth in wages will ''be comparatively mild.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Novellus Systems''During the 2000 conventionsGraph tracks the share price of Novellus Systems during the 2000 conventions (Dem., Rep.) from July - Aug. 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BONDS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); TRENDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); KLA-TENCOR CORP (55%); ANALOG DEVICES INC (55%); LAM RESEARCH CORP (55%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (53%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); KLAC (NASDAQ) (55%); ADI (NASDAQ) (55%); LRCX (NASDAQ) (55%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); MO (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



518 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Column 1; Boston 2004; MY BOSTON; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1912 words

HEADLINE: As I Remember Her: Eccentric and Quaint, and Proud of It

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
I LEFT Boston, where I was born and grew up, pretty much for good when I went away to college in the mid-60's, and in 1972, when I was 25, I did what Bostonians of my generation were never supposed to do: I moved to New York. My mother, who was born and grew up in Boston and never left, except for a couple of trips to New Hampshire and one to Bermuda, said: ''I want you to promise one thing. Promise me you will never become a Yankees fan.'' 
 That part was easy. I was less faithful to the other, unspoken part of the understanding, and never visited as often or for as long as she expected. In my mind, however, I have always spent a huge amount of time in Boston, and when I recently went back there in person, I was startled to find that the present city and my remembered one overlap in places without greatly resembling each other. The real city is vibrant and progressive -- it seems like a cleaner, more manageable version of New York, in fact -- and as far as I can make out, it's populated mostly by nonnatives. Even in formerly xenophobic neighborhoods like Charlestown and the North End, authentic Bostonians -- speakers of the pure, ''r''-- less dialect -- are so rare as almost to be exotics. The subways are thronged with young people who wear sandals and steel-rimmed glasses and who all seem to be reading books by David Foster Wallace and Simon Schama. 
 The Boston where I grew up was a provincial city that put on airs to conceal an enormous sense of inferiority. Headline writers were fond of calling it the Hub -- short for Hub of the Universe. Nobody was fooled. We all knew that the nation's true athletic, cultural and architectural capital was New York, home to the Yankees, ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and the skyscrapers. 
 When I was a boy, building tallness was a status marker of tremendous significance, and in that pre-Disneyland era there was a grade-school hierarchy that ruthlessly distinguished between those who had and had not been lucky enough to visit New York and ascend to the top of the Empire State Building -- or as I heard it, thanks to the Boston vowel shift, the Umpire State Building. I imagined it was where the baseball umpires had their headquarters and convened for meetings.
 My own ascent was tardy -- not until I was 13, when on my first trip to New York, I also saw a Broadway show and shook the mighty, ham-sized hand of Jack Dempsey -- and by that time Boston was already contemplating a skyscraper of its own, the 52-story Prudential Building, which was completed in 1965 and briefly enjoyed the dubious distinction of being the nation's tallest building outside New York. 
 Looking out from its observation deck today right there in the foreground you can see the gleaming wedge of the 60-story John Hancock Tower, which opened in 1976. Though it's now a handsome and cherished landmark, it initially sank Boston's reputation in the tall building department even lower. First, the windows began falling out, and they were replaced with plywood, so for a while the whole building looked like a giant boarded-up tenement. Then it was determined that the tower was unstable and could topple in a high wind. It required five years of renovations before the Hancock was deemed safe for occupancy, and even now some Bostonians prefer not to walk nearby. 
 Off in the background is the harbor and, every couple of minutes, a plane angling toward Logan Airport. Cambridge is to the left, the Blue Hills to the right. And unrolling at your feet is the Back Bay on one side and, on the other, Beacon Street and Commonwealth Avenue, the grand boulevards leading to the Public Garden and the Common and, beyond them, Beacon Hill, with the golden dome of Charles Bulfinch's Massachusetts Statehouse glistening in the sun. Seen this way, Boston is a city in a picture book, and a good deal of its charm, you realize, comes from its having mostly missed the great urban-renewal moment of the 60's.
 Behind the Statehouse are the towers of the financial district, which is the engine of the city's newfound prosperity. When I was a boy, a faint whiff of corruption still hung over downtown Boston -- the legacy of the long Curley era, as Jack Beatty suggests in ''The Rascal King,'' his biography of James Michael Curley, when the mayor kept residential property taxes low by jacking up commercial assessments, and when it was impossible to get a commercial building permit without making the rounds and handing out envelopes. To a certain extent, business gave up on Boston, only to come back, decades later, in a cleaner, purer form; the city is now the center of a service economy whose main service is simply managing money, a good deal of which has trickled into the neighborhoods. The South End, for example -- which when I was a kid was a no-man's land, a place where you'd think twice about venturing after dark -- is now an area as beautiful and as desirable as Beacon Hill. 
 THE downtown shopping area, once bulwarked by three formidable old department stores -- Gilchrist's, Filene's and Jordan Marsh -- was renamed Downtown Crossing a few years ago and turned into a pedestrian mall, with about the same success that pedestrian malls have had everywhere. Jordan's and Gilchrist's are gone, and now there are seemingly more fast-food joints than stores, more kids hanging out than real shoppers. The high-end retail action has moved to the Back Bay -- to the boutiques and specialty shops on Newbury Street and to the vast indoor mall at the Prudential Center.
 I happily came across, however, two old standbys of my teenage years, though in different locations now. The Brattle Book Shop, Boston's best second-hand bookstore, has moved to West Street. Jack's Joke Shop has slipped around the corner from Boylston to Tremont; it still sells gorilla suits, exploding cigarette loads, candy that will turn your teeth black and 10 varieties of fake dog droppings. The nearby Combat Zone, on the other hand -- Boston's red-light district, so called because of the soldiers and sailors who hung out there -- has shrunk to a mere flicker of its former self.
 The Swan Boats -- those paddle-wheeled catamarans in the Public Garden Lagoon -- are more popular than ever. When I was a teenager, the whole Swan Boat operation seemed dorky and slightly embarrassing. Robert Paget got the idea for the boats in 1877 from watching ''Lohengrin,'' and the notion of recreating the ''Lohengrin'' experience in the Public Garden has all the earmarks of old-time Brahmin Boston, eccentric and a little pretentious. The pretentiousness has long since vanished, however, as the operatic connection has been replaced by an association with the children's book ''Make Way for Ducklings''; what was eccentric is now merely endearing. The Swan Boats flourish in Boston, as they never could in New York, because Boston has made its own history a kind of civic religion. For a long while, its history was the city's main asset. New York, as Russell Shorto reminds us in ''The Island at the Center of the World,'' his history of Dutch Manhattan, has always been too busy making money to bother with nostalgia.
 Boston's other great civic religion is sports; except for the Patriots lately and Red Auerbach's exceptional Celtics back in the 60's, this is largely a cult of loss and near-miss that is more defining and, Bostonians believe, more character-building than New York's easy history of winning. In many ways, the city's most important shrines are the stadiums and arenas, past and present. The FleetCenter, host of this year's Democratic National Convention, is built on the site of the old Boston Garden, home to the Bruins and the Celtics. It's a charmless, soulless and unsatisfactory replacement. The Garden leaked and was infested with rats, but its acoustics magnified and intensified fan-sounds and turned them into music. The new building turns music back into noise.
 Happily, the Garden's predecessor, an echoing, iron-raftered barn known as the Boston Arena, has been lovingly restored and preserved by Northeastern University. The arena, which opened in 1910, was the original home of the Bruins and of the Celtics' legendary parquet floor, which moved to the Garden in 1952 and then to the FleetCenter. When I was in high school, the Arena was where the City League played its hockey games, usually on Friday afternoons, followed that evening by boxing or wrestling matches. The two constituencies -- the hockey players and the wrestlers -- sometimes overlapped, and in the genuine spirit of athletic fellowship a lucky teenage boy, still in his skates and shinpads, was sometimes allowed to wear around his neck the trademark horseshoe of Haystack Muldoon, who was a sort of discount, Beantown version of Haystack Calhoun, the other horseshoe-wearing grappler.
 And then of course there's Fenway Park, possibly Boston's most famous landmark, even if cursed by the Bambino, and the site of so many storied disasters and disappointments: Johnny Pesky's muffed relay throw, Tony C.'s tragic beaning, Bucky Dent's bloop homer. Fenway, which opened in 1912, has in recent years been added on to so much that it's beginning to resemble one of those suburban split-levels that have been overimproved into McMansions. But some of the old fanny-squeezing wooden seats still remain -- the narrowest and most uncomfortable in all of baseball -- and the park's red-brick facade is unaltered. From the street, Fenway, which is in the middle of an urban neighborhood and surrounded neither by parking lots nor by pedestrian boulevards, looks like nothing so much as a 19th-century mill building. What they make here is a fabric that knits this city together in a web of suffering so exquisite that it's also sweetly addictive.
 I also made a pilgrimage to another, lesser sporting landmark -- the Cleveland Circle ball fields in my old neighborhood of Brighton. Cleveland Circle, no more circular than Harvard Square is square, is the terminus of the Beacon Street trolley line. In my youth it was a full-service recreation area: baseball diamonds, swimming pool, ice rink and -- when we got a little older -- a tiny drugstore that wasn't too fussy about selling beer to minors, who could then drink it undisturbed in the convenient woods behind the rink.
 Brighton has actually come up the ladder -- remodeled and yuppified -- since I lived there, though I was distressed to be reminded that the old 1864 library, designed by a native Brightonian, George Fuller, and built to resemble a church, had been replaced by one of those fortress-like concrete buildings so popular in the late 60's. It was in the ecclesiastical quiet of the Brighton library that I first got the idea that there might be a world elsewhere, a world west of the Charles River. 
 When I got older I continued my education at the main library, the great McKim building in Copley Square. I went there partly to do homework -- I remember finishing ''The Great Gatsby'' at one of the long oak tables in the main reading room and feeling so elated that I thought I might float off the chair -- and partly to pick up girls. I never succeeded, because I was crippled by provincial shyness. I lacked the smoothness of a guy I once saw who sat next to an attractive girl, peeked over at her loose-leaf binder, and after a minute turned and said, ''Malaria! That's fascinating!'' That was the kind of move, I decided, that you learned only in the big city. That was how New Yorkers did it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol Jetty crossed Boston Harbor last week on her way to Charlestown. For some, the city's relatively modest skyline can be a sore point. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (75%); TRENDS (73%); WRITERS (69%); ELECTIONS (67%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (66%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Social Conditions and Trends; Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

PERSON: Charles Mcgrath

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (98%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



519 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Margot Streeter, Philip Utsch

 BODY:
Margot Elizabeth Streeter, the daughter of Miranda C. J. van Bers of Portsmouth, N.H., and The Hague and the late O. T. Streeter, was married yesterday to Philip Gardner Utsch, a son of Allison D. Utsch of New York and Hans P. Utsch of Philadelphia. The Rev. 
David J. Lucey performed the ceremony at St. Mary's-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church in Northeast Harbor, Me.
 Mrs. Utsch, 27, is a fund-raising consultant in New York and a member of the young patrons fund-raising committee of Carnegie Hall. Next month, she is to become a Ford Foundation fellow at Columbia Business School. She graduated from Yale. 
 The bride's father was the city purchasing agent for Boston and the chairman of Infrasys, a former management consulting firm there. Her mother is a partner in Hill Construction and Preservation, residential renovators in Portsmouth and in Kittery, Me.
 Mr. Utsch, 35, is a vice president and an institutional salesman in New York at Calyon Securities, a subsidiary of Credit Agricole, the French bank. He graduated from Colorado College and received a master's degree in history from the London School of Economics. His mother is a real estate agent for Edward Lee Cave, a residential brokerage firm in New York. His father is a portfolio manager and a founder of the Federated Kaufmann Fund, a mutual fund in New York owned by Federated Investors; he is also a trustee of Colorado College and the vice president of the American group that supports the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in Nairobi, Kenya. The bridegroom is a stepson of Susan Lyall Utsch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); WILDLIFE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); HISTORY (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); HOME REMODELING (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (69%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (55%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%)

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (55%); ACA (BIT) (55%); FII (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



520 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Truffaut. Fellini. Zach Braff.

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAHILLANE

 BODY:
WELCOME to New Jersey, the Auteur State.
 While you were spending most of your recent adult life stuck in traffic at the Lincoln Tunnel, New Jersey became midwife to serious young filmmakers like Kevin Smith (''Jersey Girl''), Todd Solondz (''Happiness'') and Tom McCarthy (''The Station Agent''). They are homegrown filmmakers who see beyond the cliches of Turnpike, smokestack and Soprano friends wedged into 55-gallon steel drums, to the New Jersey of neurotically green lawns, suburban housewives micromanaging their kids' lives, men who love their BMW's too much and more. 
 The state's newest indie-film phenom is Zach Braff, a 29-year-old South Orange native whose first movie, ''Garden State,'' opens Wednesday in New York and Los Angeles and has its New Jersey premiere the next day at the Maplewood Theater, which is next to his hometown. Mr. Braff, who wrote, directed and stars in ''Garden State,'' was the sweetheart of the rodeo at this year's Sundance Festival where his movie was a finalist for the grand jury prize and was bought by Fox Searchlight and Miramax films for $5 million. 
 ''Garden State'' is set in and around South Orange, and Mr. Braff acknowledges that he gratefully pillaged his childhood to make the film. 
 In the blizzard of promotion surrounding the movie, Mr. Braff was curiously unavailable to talk, but he recently wrote this on his ''Garden State Blog'': ''I basically took stories from growing up and mixed them with stories other people had told me, things I read in the paper, things I overheard and mixed them into this big Garden State stew. Some scenes are word-for-word things that happened, and others are totally made up.''
 ''Garden State,'' which also stars Natalie Portman, is a romantic comedy filtered through a prism of New Jersey gothic, offering up an eccentric mix of gravediggers, cops and Medieval Times knights/waiters. Mr. Braff, who also stars on the NBC sitcom ''Scrubs,'' plays a lithium numbed actor-waiter named Andrew Largeman who returns home from Los Angeles after a decade of self-imposed exile when his mother dies. 
 Hoping to feel any of the five stages of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's hierarchy of grief in his old New Jersey womb, Largeman leaves his antidepressants back in L.A. Ms. Portman then waltzes into his life, plops a set of headphones on his ears and says, ''This song's going to change your life.'' 
 By the time the movie ends, they're kissing on a crane next to an ark in a driving rainstorm in some kind of unlikely New Jersey fairy tale.
 This is territory where Mr. Smith, Mr. McCarthy and Mr. Solondz would feel at home. And, in some ways, their artistic fathers and brothers -- and Mr. Braff's -- feel more literary than Hollywood. Writers like Philip Roth and more recently, James Kaplan (''Two Guys From Verona'') and Frederick Reiken (''The Lost Legends of New Jersey''), with a pinch of Springsteen's ''runaway American dream'' thrown in for good measure.
 Not that it's easy being a serious artist from New Jersey, especially being so close to the sound and fury of Manhattan. 
 Kevin Smith understands the tension. Mr. Smith, the Highlands-raised director responsible for the potty-mouthed masterpiece ''Clerks'' as well as ''Mallrats,'' ''Dogma,'' ''Chasing Amy'' and ''Jersey Girl'' (all set and shot in New Jersey) feels that state's nearness to ''the city'' fuels a certain kind of alienated art. ''You're in the shadow of New York, always trying to prove yourself,'' he said in a recent phone interview. ''It's like you're the redheaded stepchild.'' 
 There is a spirit of hilarious defiance evident in Mr. Smith's world of video clerks, potheads, community college dropouts and the people who misunderstand them. ''Some people create worlds like George Lucas with the 'Star Wars' movies,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I like to set it in a place I know. Sleep in my bed at night. Movies are usually set in glamorous places like New York, L.A. and the Caribbean. Jersey to me is my world. I like being the New Jersey guy.'' 
 While the big-budget ''Green Hornet'' is next on the docket -- Mr. Smith is also a comic book guy -- the 33-year-old filmmaker credits his entire career to a $25,000, Visa-financed film made after hours with friends in the convenience store where he worked. ''If 'Clerks' hadn't worked out,'' Mr. Smith said, ''I'd still be working there to pay it off. That store was the next best thing to not working. It was a confessional, theater, bar and sometimes brothel.''
 Even though he recently traded New Jersey for the hills of Hollywood, Mr. Smith said he was pleased to see Mr. Braff join the New Jersey film fraternity. ''It's a fantastic trailer,'' he said of ''Garden State,'' which he hasn't seen yet. ''I met Zach recently, and told him that kind of movie makes me ashamed to be a six-time filmmaker.''
 It was just about a year ago that Tom McCarthy, another New Jersey native, was savoring the critical and commercial success of his first movie, ''The Station Agent.'' Filmed largely on the 11-mile stretch of Green Pond Road in Rockaway and Hibernia Townships, it tells the story of a train-spotting dwarf looking for the peace and quiet that just can't be found on New Jersey Transit's rail lines. 
 Mr. McCarthy, who grew up in New Providence and now lives in New York, says he wanted to set his story in the New Jersey that he knew but never saw portrayed onscreen. ''New Jersey's a pretty interesting place,'' he said. ''There are so many forces at work economically, culturally and socially. I didn't realize it until I came back. It's kind of exciting seeing it through the camera. Now that I'm talking about it, I'm thinking maybe I should go make another movie there.''
 That would certainly make sense to Danny DeVito, who grew up in Asbury Park; it was his company, Jersey Films, that produced ''Garden State.'' ''Zach Braff is a talented and exciting young man,'' Mr. DeVito said. ''It's a fantastic story. I love the idea of going back home.'' 
 Mr. DeVito likens cinema to a grand cathedral where filmmakers each contribute a brick, and he says he is not surprised that New Jersey has its fair share of bricklayers. Mr. DeVito says Asbury Park was the best education for an aspiring filmmaker, what with five movie palaces and the canvas of the city for inspiration. ''It was really cool growing up in Asbury,'' he said. ''When I was a kid, it was the best of all possible worlds. In the summer, all the city girls would come down, and in winter it was like a Bergman film.''
 And when it comes to movies being made in New Jersey, Mr. DeVito says he would like to see more. ''Look, I'm on the California Film Commission but there's no better place to make a film than New Jersey,'' he said. ''It's got the Pine Barrens, the Shore, the city, the richness of the culture and the great melting pot. You can't ask for anything more. The industry started in New Jersey. They only went to L.A. for the lights.''
 Even though New Jersey is the birthplace of the movie industry -- not to mention Jack Nicholson (Neptune) -- it has never quite gotten its due when it comes to movie lore. If a movie were to be made about the history of film in New Jersey, the treatment would go something like this:
 A young man with a dream (Thomas Edison) invents the motion picture camera (and the light bulb on weekends), establishes the first film studio (Black Maria in West Orange) and Fort Lee becomes a silent-picture boomtown. Men of questionable repute hijack the industry to California (see ''Chinatown'') and New Jersey fades to black. 
 For a while, anyway. The New Jersey Film Commission has been aggressive in trying to turn the state into New York's back lot. In 2003, 78 feature films were shot in New Jersey, pumping about $78 million into the state's economy. ''I can give you anywhere in the world, and you don't have to leave the metropolitan area,'' said the commission's production coordinator, David Schoner, ever ready with a pitch. ''We can go from Beijing to Baghdad in a heartbeat.''
 There does seem to be a consensus among people who draw conclusions that New Jersey has reached something of a tipping point as far as its image goes -- that the sheer volume of art and words and pictures and music coming from the state make it impossible to settle on a collective vision. Kevin Coyne, a Freehold author and historian goes so far as to say that New Jersey has become the East Coast California, supplanting New York in terms of cultural and intellectual influence.
 Still, when it comes to movies and books, it's story that matters. And New Jersey, as surprising as it may seem, is a hothouse for stories.
 In Mr. Reiken's novel ''The Lost Legends of New Jersey,'' the only way that Anthony Rubin can make sense of his youthful experience is to resort to tales, to create legends. Mr. Reiken writes:
 ''He was always doing that, making things up, trying to see how it all might fit into a legend. He didn't understand why he did this, because New Jersey was not a legend. It was the armpit of America, according to most people. Still he saw everything around him as a legend.'' 
 And that's something that Zach Braff, Kevin Smith and all those other Auteur State moviemakers would certainly understand.


GRAPHIC: Photos: New Jersey gothic: Peter Sarsgaard, left, Natalie Portman and Zach Braff in Mr. Braff's new movie, ''Garden State.'' (Photo by K.C. Bailey/Camelot Pictures)(pg. 1)
Ben Affleck and Liv Tyler, left, in Kevin Smith's ''Jersey Girl.'' Mr. Smith has set and shot all his movies in New Jersey. (Photo by Peter Sorel/Miramax Films)
Zach Braff, bottom left, drew on his South Orange childhood to make ''Garden State,'' whose stars include Peter Sarsgaard, left. (Photo by K.C. Bailey/Camelot Pictures)
Michelle Williams and Peter Dinklage, above, in Tom McCarthy's ''Station Agent,'' which was filmed in Rockaway and Hibernia Townships (Photo by K.C. Bailey/Camelot Pictures)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (87%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); COMEDY FILMS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (66%); THEATER (57%) Motion Pictures; Sundance Film Festival (Park City, Utah); Motion Pictures

PERSON: Zach Braff; Kevin Smith; Tom Mccarthy; Kevin Cahillane

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



521 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: In Defense Of the State of New Jersey

BYLINE: By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

 BODY:
ZACH BRAFF strolled into a sprawling suite at the Essex House hotel in Manhattan. He did not trip or fall flat on his face, crash into a wall or stumble over a side table, the way J. D. Dorian, the fresh-faced resident he plays on ''Scrubs,'' might have. Nor did he resemble Andrew Largeman, the passive, downbeat character he plays to great comic effect in the new movie ''Garden State.''
 Mr. Braff was instead upright, animated and self-assured. ''J. D is the really goofy, silly side of me,'' he said as he sank into a plush sofa. ''Andrew Largeman is the introverted, melancholy side. The sad, drunk porcelain clown.''
 The side of Mr. Braff that was on display this afternoon, however, was the driven, quietly ambitious side. The side that is deathly afraid of dying without having accomplished all the to-do's on his life list. The side that compelled Mr. Braff to write and direct as well as star in ''Garden State.'' 
 His film follows Large, a struggling young actor who has been on lithium and a host of other numbing drugs since childhood, as he reluctantly returns home to New Jersey from Los Angeles to attend his mother's funeral. The funeral, it turns out, is but the first life-altering event in a whirlwind weekend that, among other things, finds him at an ecstasy-fueled house party and at a wake for a hamster.
 The dark romantic comedy, which opens on Wednesday, was a hit at this year's Sundance Film Festival, where Miramax and Fox Searchlight purchased it for $5 million. But even young actors with the chutzpah to write, direct and star in their own film projects suffer moments of paralyzing insecurity. For Mr. Braff the hand-wringing came when a swimming pool scene nearly drove him off the deep end.
 ''We're in a $25 million mansion,'' Mr. Braff, 29, recalled. ''30 people in a pool that's not heated. All the toilets are backed up and the woman who owns the house is screaming at me, because I'm the only person she recognizes. It was at that point that I asked myself, 'What have I gotten into?' ''
 With a folky, melancholy score underlining its themes of alienation and post-collegiate angst, the coming-of-age film has already earned comparisons to ''The Graduate'' -- a compliment Mr. Braff said is rather undeserved. ''I don't think it's that good. I just aspired to tell a story that took the temperature of what it felt like to be a 20-something in this day and age.''
 ''Garden State'' earns its charm with dry, economical dialogue and quirky, troubled characters. Large's father, played by Ian Holm, is an emotionally distant psychiatrist. Large's love interest, played by Natalie Portman, is a pathological liar with epilepsy; Peter Sarsgaard plays an old high school friend, a pot-smoking slacker who digs (and also robs) graves for a living ''I'm happy being unimpressive,'' says Mr. Sarsgaard's character, Mark, in one marijuana-fueled scene. ''I sleep better.''
 Mr. Braff deliberately avoided first-time director gimmicks like flashbacks or voiceovers, opting instead to write a completely linear movie, one that delights in flouting Hollywood's three-act formula. ''If the characters are strong enough, you don't need all of that stuff,'' he argued. In another act of defiance, Mr. Braff cast himself as the lead because, well, he wanted to give the little guy a break. ''If I hadn't written this,'' he said, ''the part would have probably gotten offered to 10 other guys before I even had a chance to read for it.''
 While Mr. Braff was more than willing to gamble on himself, others weren't as eager. He hunted for backing for well over a year. ''Studios, financiers, production companies, they all passed on it,'' Mr. Braff recalled. ''They kept saying that the film was 'execution dependent,' which is just fancy lingo for 'We'll believe it when we see it.' ''
 He would finally find a believer in Gary Gilbert, a former mortgage banker eager to break into the film business. Mr. Gilbert financed ''Garden State'' with $2.5 million of his own money.
 ''When I met Zach, he spoke about his movie and his vision with such passion I was sold,'' said Mr. Gilbert, who has since formed the film company Camelot Pictures.
 With his Hollywood connections, Mr. Braff was able to get his script to his dream cast, and that was all it took to enlist Ms. Portman, Mr Sarsgaard and Mr. Holm for the film. A proud South Orange native, Mr. Braff said he fought to shoot ''Garden State'' in New Jersey, resisting the siren call of Toronto, where many of Hollywood's movies are filmed on the cheap. ''I'm really against bringing all of that work to Canada,'' he said, sliding from auteur to civic booster and extolling the virtues of his oft-maligned home state: ''It's lush and green; it's got beaches.'' He bristles at the mention of New Jersey's reputation as the ''armpit of America,'' and blames the Newark airport. ''People fly into Newark and all they see is the industrial areas; Newark is a city that's due for a revival.''
 Following in the footsteps of his father, a lawyer who did community theater in his spare time, Mr. Braff began acting in local productions when he was 10. A summer spent at Stage Door Manor, a children's camp in upstate New York for budding thespians, proved life-altering. Classes in improvisation and stage combat, lessons in lighting -- Mr. Braff, a self-professed ''film geek,'' reveled in it all.
 ''Because I was in the public school system and had no interest in sports, I always felt really alienated,'' he said. ''Here was this amazing other world where the cool thing was to be an actor and not a lacrosse player. It was the first time in my life that I felt like I belonged somewhere.'' His first professional role came at 14, when he starred opposite Gwyneth Paltrow in a television pilot produced by her father, Bruce Paltrow. After attending film school at Northwestern, Mr. Braff moved to Manhattan, where he hoped to begin a filmmaking career. He worked, thanklessly, as a production assistant on music videos for artists like Sting, D'Angelo and the Spice Girls, regularly encountering celebrity ego. A Spice Girl who found walking too demanding had a bodyguard carry her around on set. Mr. Braff's most back-breaking experience occurred during Mariah Carey's ''Up on the Roof'' video, when he and his colleagues had to schlep equipment up to the roof with no elevator. ''We worked 20 hours straight for a video that probably aired twice on MTV,'' he joked. ''I told all my friends that I hoped her next video was called 'In the Lobby.' ''
 Mr. Braff returned to acting, and was quickly cast in George C. Wolfe's 1998 production of ''Macbeth'' at the Public Theater (Mr. Wolfe has a cameo as a restaurant manager in ''Garden State''). Upon moving to Los Angeles in 2000, he landed parts in low-profile indie films like ''Getting to Know You'' and ''The Broken Hearts Club,'' in which he played a gay, drug-addicted club kid. After winning the lead in ''Scrubs,'' Mr. Braff found himself with four months of down time before the show began. He promptly quit his job as a waiter and started writing ''Garden State,'' fleshing out the autobiographical material he'd been compiling since high school.
 Mr. Braff said he has always been an old soul. He rarely smiles, and his bright blue eyes seem to always be searching. It may come with the territory -- his mother and stepfather are psychologists; his father is remarried to a therapist. ''I had a lot of therapy in my life, and I know a lot of people on mental health-related pharmaceuticals,'' he said. In the movie, Large ''is lost and depressed and feels like he's stuck,'' Mr. Braff continued. ''And that's where I was, lost and depressed and thinking: 'What's going to be the next chapter of my life? Because I need it to start now.' I felt a lot of people in their 20's could relate to that feeling, praying for an epiphany, praying for some clarity, something that would come along and open their eyes.''
 Ms. Portman said she was eager to work with Mr. Braff again, having come to appreciate his relaxed confidence and laid-back directorial style. ''A lot of directors tend to be intense control freaks, and it was almost worrisome that he wasn't that way,'' Ms. Portman said. 
 Mr. Braff said he preferred to keep his meltdowns private, not wanting to affect his cast even as things went awry. ''The best sets that I've been on as an actor were the ones where everything was kept really calm,'' he noted. And he credited chamomile tea with helping him to maintain his cool, joking that he'd had it regularly pumped into his veins. ''I drink two cups of that stuff and it's all good,'' he said. ''It has a powerful effect on me.''
 With ''Garden State'' as a calling card, better scripts now come his way, and phone calls are being returned faster, Mr. Braff said. If forced to choose between acting and directing, he finally concluded, after some thought, that he'd pick the latter. ''I like being the decision maker,'' he said. ''To use a really cheesy analogy, it's like conducting an orchestra with all these amazingly creative people, as opposed to just being one voice.'' Harvey Weinstein of Miramax said he has already approached Mr. Braff about directing a film version of the 1972 musical ''Pippin.'' Mr. Braff is also collaborating with his brother Adam on an adaptation of the Doris Burn novel ''Andrew Henry's Meadow,'' which he loved as a child. And he is happily committed to ''Scrubs'' for another two years. When time permits, he will continue to write.
 ''Right now,'' Mr. Braff said with a sly grin, ''I'm thinking of writing about a guy who goes on a six-week press tour to promote a movie.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Zach Braff was behind the camera and in front of it (with Natalie Portman, above) for ''Garden State,'' his directing debut. (Photographs by K. C. Bailey/Camelot Pictures)(pg. 13)
 Natalie Portman and Zach Braff as misfits who find each other in ''Garden State.'' (Photo by K. C. Bailey/Camelot Pictures)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); COMEDY FILMS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); FESTIVALS (64%) 

COMPANY: ESSEX HOUSE HOTEL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Miramax; Fox Searchlight Pictures

PERSON: Zach Braff; Lola Ogunnaike

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



522 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: A Revised 'Phantom' Going to Las Vegas as a New Lure

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
Andrew Lloyd Webber, the British impresario who brought singing cats, flying chandeliers and other splashy special effects to Broadway, is preparing to mount what may be the most expensive theatrical production of all time: a $35 million Las Vegas production of his blockbuster musical ''The Phantom of the Opera.'' 
 Officials with Clear Channel Entertainment, the show's co-producer, said late last week that the Las Vegas ''Phantom,'' cut to roughly 90 minutes and radically restaged, would open in a custom-made $30 million theater at the Venetian hotel and casino in early 2006.
 Their hope is to sell the show, one of the longest running, most successful and widely seen musicals ever -- its cumulative world gross, since opening in London in 1986, is $3.2 billion -- as a new experience to millions of Las Vegas vacationers, bored gamblers and musical theater fans. 
 ''We understand the power of a universal and marketable brand,'' said Scott Zeiger, the chief executive of Clear Channel's theatrical division. ''We've seen Las Vegas emerge as the second-largest live entertainment market in North America, after New York, and we believe that 'Phantom' is perhaps the most popular entertainment property ever. So we think it's a perfect match.'' 
 The souped-up ''Phantom'' is the second major Broadway production to recently announce long-term plans in Las Vegas. Early last month producers of ''Avenue Q,'' the Tony Award winner for best musical, announced that they would forgo a traditional tour in favor of an extended run in Las Vegas, a move that surprised much of Broadway and upset many theater presenters on the road.
 The ''Phantom'' announcement is less of a shock. The rumor that it would move West has circulated for nearly two years and has recently been the source of heated speculation online and in Las Vegas newspapers. But nevertheless the move seems to signal a rapidly evolving relationship between Broadway and the Las Vegas Strip.
 Broadway boosters say this new connection is the result of the explosive growth of Las Vegas as an entertainment outpost as well as the continued strength of Broadway, which has seen a 30 percent increase in attendance over the last decade. 
 ''These hotels are under such pressure to differentiate their brand, because the gambling is the same everywhere,'' said Jed Bernstein, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers. ''So what helps them be different is the entertainment, and Broadway has become that type of popular entertainment currency.''
 In the case of ''Phantom,'' that currency is being minted by a host of A-list Broadway names, including the show's original director, Harold Prince, who will direct the new ''Phantom,'' and the architect and set designer David Rockwell (''The Rocky Horror Show,'' ''Hairspray''), who will design the theater at the Venetian.
 For Lord Lloyd Webber, who composed the musical and originally produced it with Cameron Mackintosh, the open-ended run in Las Vegas represents the culmination of a project that he first conceived in the mid-1990's as well as an opportunity to attract some of the 35 million tourists who visit Las Vegas annually. (Mr. Mackintosh is not involved in the Las Vegas production.) Meetings with Mr. Prince about how to reshape and trim the show began in earnest last year in New York and London.
 In a statement, the composer, currently finalizing a film version of the musical, called the deal an ''exciting development in the 'Phantom's' long life.'' Mr. Prince, speaking through a show spokesman, echoed that, promising ''some new surprises'' from the Las Vegas production.
 It will not be the first time Lord Lloyd Webber has put down roots in Las Vegas. His 1984 musical ''Starlight Express,'' which included stage tricks like dancers on roller skates, ran for four years to middling success in the mid-1990's at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
 Since then, however, Las Vegas audiences, long treated to a nonstop barrage of tribute shows and fading lounge singers, have shown signs of embracing Broadway-style musicals. In February of last year, for example, ''Mamma Mia,'' a runaway international hit based on the music of the Swedish supergroup Abba, opened a permanent run at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino, where it has consistently sold out. That followed a successful yearlong run by the musical ''Chicago,'' widely considered a trailblazer, which opened at the Mandalay Bay in 1999.
 This summer alone, two other musicals, ''Saturday Night Fever'' (which is based on the 1977 film and opened on Broadway in 1999) and ''We Will Rock You'' (based on the music of the rock group Queen) are also settling down for open-ended runs at casinos. ''We Will Rock You,'' which was a critical failure in London's West End, avoided New York altogether, and New York critics, in favor of a Las Vegas run. 
 While neither production is anywhere near a classic -- each is essentially an elaborate tribute show with a marginal plot hung on it -- that may not matter to Las Vegas audiences hungry for entertainment.
 ''In the case of 'Mamma Mia,' I don't know if the bulk of tourists even know it's a Broadway musical,'' said Myron Martin, the executive director of the Las Vegas Performing Arts Center Foundation, which is trying to build a 2,500-seat theater in the city's downtown. ''They just know it's a big fun show.''
 For producers, the economic appeal of Las Vegas productions is obvious. At 90 minutes, ''Phantom'' may do 10 performances in a week, as opposed to the traditional 8 on Broadway. (Acts like the Blue Man Group, playing in a 1,200-seat theater at the Luxor Hotel and Casino, do as many as 14 performances a week.) Ticket prices for ''Phantom,'' which run to $100 on Broadway, are expected to match or exceed that in Las Vegas. And union actors in Las Vegas, working on a ''casino contract,'' generally earn less than that they would in equivalent roles on Broadway.
 Still, the project carries some risk for its principal investors, including the Venetian, the upscale resort for gamblers and shoppers, which is paying for the 1,800-seat theater in its 4,027-room resort, and Clear Channel Communications, the radio and live entertainment conglomerate, which is putting up all $35 million for the production. 
 One major challenge may be the success of ''Phantom'' itself, which has been running in New York since 1988 -- it is the second-longest-running Broadway show ever, after ''Cats'' -- and has been seen by countless millions in touring and international productions. It has been staged in 20 countries and 110 cities, and has had more than 65,000 performances. Currently, there are productions in New York (at the Majestic Theater), London, Budapest, Stuttgart and South Africa, and it is on tour throughout North America. 
 But officials for Clear Channel say the show's omnipresence will only enhance its value. ''I've seen this show hundreds of times,'' said Brian Becker, the chairman and chief executive of the company. ''And it still amazes me how moving the music is.'' 
 The producers are not planning any specific cross-promotions, but Mr. Becker said they expect a ''halo effect,'' from the planned release this Christmas of a movie version, directed by Joel Schumacher and distributed by Warner Brothers. Similarly, sales of the Broadway production of ''Chicago'' were helped significantly by the success of the movie version, which was produced by Miramax -- which has also dabbled on Broadway -- and won the Academy Award for best picture in 2003. 
 The producers have not yet settled on who will design the show itself -- the original set designer, Maria Bjornson, died in 2002 -- but Mr. Zeiger said it would feature a barrage of stage effects, include myriad trapdoors, an onstage lake and, yes, a fancy new chandelier, which famously drops from the rafters at the end of the show's first act. 
 ''The place is going to be tricked out,'' Mr. Zeiger said.
 For $35 million, it should be. The Las Vegas ''Phantom'' would far surpass even the priciest of Broadway musicals, which commonly cost more than $10 million to mount. ''The Lion King,'' the Disney musical adaptation of its hit film, which opened at the New Amsterdam Theater in 1997, is widely believed to be the most expensive production in Broadway history, costing $20 million. 
 The producers, however, seem confident, both in the new-look ''Phantom'' and in the continued demand for Broadway fare in Las Vegas. Mr. Becker said that his company was actively planning to bring other shows to casino settings in the near future.
 ''We are all making a very big bet on the success of this venture,'' Mr. Becker said. ''But we clearly see Vegas as a place we want to be involved in for a very long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Venetian hotel and casino in Las Vegas, above, is the planned home for a restaged ''Phantom of the Opera'' in 2006. Right, theatergoers leaving a Broadway production of the musical on Friday. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); MUSIC (73%); COINS & COINAGE (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Theater; Venetian Hotel (Las Vegas); Finances

COMPANY: VENETIAN HOTEL & CASINO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Andrew Lloyd (Lord) Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEVADA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



523 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Companies' Profits Are Surging. Why Isn't the Market?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHAT'S wrong with earnings growth of more than 20 percent? Apparently quite a lot.
 At the end of last week, profits for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index were on course to turn in one of their best quarters in more than a decade.
 ''This is the best economy we've seen in years,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, chairman of General Electric, when the company reported strong earnings on July 9. A profits barometer watched by the Leuthold Group, a money management and research firm in Minneapolis, shows that second-quarter earnings for the companies that have reported so far are better than they have been since 1983. 
 Despite all the good news, the stock market is near its low for the year. And it has been in a holding pattern -- rising and falling in a tight range -- since Feb. 12. As of Friday, the S.&P. 500 was 6.2 percent below its 2004 peak, and just 0.2 percent from its low.
 If earnings are so good, why has the market been stalled so long? Part of the answer is that the market has already built expectations of strong earnings into current prices. And history shows that even when earnings are strong, they don't necessarily translate into higher prices. That is especially true when investors have other things to worry them, as they do now -- including rising inflation, high oil prices, terrorism and the presidential election.
 One example was in 1994, when the S.&P. declined 1.54 percent despite an increase in operating earnings for its 500 companies of 16.4 percent. In February that year, Federal Reserve policy makers began a series of rate increases that doubled their benchmark interest rate, to 6 percent. 
 Of course, just last month, the Fed began what is expected to be a cycle of interest rate increases. Rising rates, in themselves, trouble the market, but the state of the economy is also worrisome. Economic data show that the economy and job creation slowed last month. And although Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said last week that this slowdown should be short-lived, many investors may wait and see until the outlook is clear. 
 Then there are the earnings numbers. A closer look shows why the market hasn't been all that impressed. 
 So far, 260 companies in the S.&P. 500 have reported earnings for the second quarter. Based on those reports and on forecasts for the remainder, profits for all companies in the index are expected to be up 24 percent, compared with the second quarter a year ago, according to Thomson First Call. But companies are no longer beating expectations the way they have since the beginning of 2003.
 Over the last 10 years, the average earnings surprise for the S.&P. 500 companies -- the amount by which actual earnings exceed or trail the consensus forecast on Wall Street -- has been a positive 3 percent. So far in the second quarter, profits are doing better than that, with an average surprise of 4.1 percent. Yet that is well below the 7.9 percent average surprise of the first quarter, and lower than in all four quarters of 2003. 
 What's worse, corporate expectations for future earnings are not as positive as they have been in the past. Over the 50 days through Thursday, the number of companies giving positive guidance to analysts about future earnings was down to a net of 19, according to Biriyni Associates, a research firm in Westport, Conn. That compares with a net of 77 in the middle of May.
 Microsoft, which surprised investors with its one-time $3-a-share dividend on Tuesday, disappointed them Thursday with a cautious view of future sales, saying growth could be 5 percent or less over the next year. Although Microsoft is known for overly cautious forecasts, its stock plunged 3.3 percent on Friday, wiping out the gains from the dividend announcement. 
 And of the 260 companies reporting so far, analysts have already lowered their earnings forecasts for the third or fourth quarters for more than a third, or 95 of them, according to Thomson First Call. Overall earnings growth is expected to slow in future quarters -- to 15 percent in the third quarter, 15.6 percent in the fourth and 7.6 percent in the first quarter of 2005. 
 Even a marginally stronger dollar would hurt future earnings. Vadim Zlotnikov, chief investment strategist at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, estimates that a weak dollar accounted for about half the profits for the S.&P. 500 companies in 2003. In the first quarter, the earnings impact of the weak currency was about the same. 
 But if the dollar stays at its current value or strengthens, one prop for earnings will have been removed. ''It will not help at all,'' Mr. Zlotnikov said.
 So if earnings are not going to prompt a rebound in the stock market, it may take a further decline before investors are willing to buy again.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''The Profit Picture''Corporate earningsGraph tracks the year-over-year change in the quarterly earnings of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index from 1994 - 2004 (Est.).(Source by Thomson First Call)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INFLATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); ELECTIONS (64%); JOB CREATION (61%); TERRORISM (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); JEFFREY IMMELT (56%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



524 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico's Election Has Extra Dose of Drama

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
For political theatrics, you could not get much noisier and nastier than the governor's race in Puerto Rico. The juicy battle has Pedro Rossello, the charismatic but corruption-tainted former governor who wants his old job back, trading insults, charges and counter-charges with his successor, Sila M. Calderon. They are doing everything but hurling dishware at each other.
 Yet Ms. Calderon, the incumbent, is not a candidate -- she is the first Puerto Rico governor in decades to forgo a re-election bid. She abruptly announced last year that she would not seek a second term, after Mr. Rossello, who wants Puerto Rico to become the 51st state, resurfaced.
 Mr. Rossello's opponent, Anibal Acevedo Vila, who is a member of Ms. Calderon's pro-commonwealth party, is earnest but not magnetic, and is starving for attention because of the sturm und drang between the current and former governors. 
 Governor's races are always impassioned in Puerto Rico, where a mind-boggling 80-plus percent of voters turn out on Election Day. But this one comes at an especially soul-searching time. A spiraling crime rate, fueled by the drug trade, has demoralized people here, as has a sickly economy, battered by the recession and the phasing out of tax breaks for American companies with operations here.
 Sometime this year, the number of Puerto Ricans on the mainland is expected to surpass the roughly 3.9 million here, a juncture that surprises no one on the island but is a poignant symbol nonetheless. The candidates call it a reminder that life holds little promise here, and that Puerto Rico must offer more in the way of career advancement, home ownership and even smooth commutes to stem the exodus of young families to New York, Hartford and Central Florida.
 Ms. Calderon's surprise announcement in May 2003 that she would not seek re-election slowed whatever progress was under way, though she was already having a hard time getting things done because of tangles with the Legislature and disinterest from Washington.
 Against this backdrop, Mr. Rossello, who left office in 2001 under a cloud even though he avoided the corruption charges that plagued members of his administration, looks refreshing to many here. A recent poll in El Nuevo Dia, Puerto Rico's largest daily newspaper, found Mr. Rossello to be seven percentage points ahead of Mr. Acevedo Vila, suggesting that the new accusations bombarding him week after week are not seriously hurting him.
 Among the recent allegations: that Mr. Rossello falsely said he worked summer jobs here as a college student in the 1960's, which helped him qualify for the $52,500 annual pension he has received since leaving office. Though he has insisted that he worked at a psychiatric hospital here those summers, his critics say he was competing in tennis tournaments overseas.
 He says he has offered affidavits from his supervisors during his hospital employment, but the island's retirement administration wants pay stubs. In June, it reduced his pension to $29,900 and ordered him to return $81,000 in past payments.
 His critics have also challenged his eligibility to run for governor, given that he lived in Virginia at points after leaving office and declared himself a nonresident of Puerto Rico on two tax returns. When he applied to run for governor again, Mr. Rossello said he had been a resident for the last five years, as the island's Constitution requires for political candidates. A court case on the issue was dismissed in May because the plaintiff did not file his complaint properly.
 ''He will not win this election because the people of Puerto Rico respect themselves too much,'' Ms. Calderon said in an interview. ''The people of Puerto Rico are an honest people and he does not represent the values that we embody.''
 Of Mr. Acevedo Vila -- who became her party's candidate only after Ms. Calderon's own choice, the son of a former governor, dropped out of the running -- Ms. Calderon said: ''He is a very capable young man, a very serious man, hard working. He is going to do a good job.'' 
 In an interview at his campaign headquarters, Mr. Rossello said his critics were dragging him through the mud unfairly, emphasizing that he had never been charged with any wrongdoing.
 ''After all these investigations, including hearings in the State Legislature, they have been unable to charge me with anything,'' Mr. Rossello said. ''So in a sense they are validating my position that during my eight years in office, I governed in accordance with state laws.''
 Mr. Rossello said the real concern to Ms. Calderon's party, the Popular Democratic Party, was not his character, but his promise to push for statehood as soon as he won election. His campaign mantra is ''Estadidad, Seguridad, Progreso'' (''Statehood, Security, Progress''), and he has proposed several ways to achieve statehood, including a possible court fight.
 Mr. Rossello said his other top priority was reducing crime, pointing out that Ms. Calderon has had four police superintendents in less than four years while he had one for all eight years he was governor. He said he would also create an anticorruption council that would meet with him weekly, so that if a member of his administration ''with his whole family and a bunch of people are in Vail, Colo., skiing and it seems a little bit out of touch with reality,'' he could immediately crack down. 
 But he said Ms. Calderon was so worried about corruption that she had micromanaged to the point of paralyzing the government.
 ''This time around I will not change my management style,'' Mr. Rossello said. ''Unless you're willing to delegate and trust, you will not get any proactive action.''
 Mr. Acevedo Vila, whose brochures emphasize ''Youth, Experience, Capacity'' (he is 42; Mr. Rossello, 60), said that by focusing on statehood, Mr. Rossello would ignore more pressing issues, like the economy and public education.
 ''We are not running on an ideological platform,'' Mr. Acevedo Vila, Puerto Rico's resident commissioner in Washington, said. ''We are running on a pragmatic platform that will bring solutions.''
 Statehood proponents say that Ms. Calderon's embrace of commonwealth status, which grants Puerto Ricans American citizenry but keeps them from voting in presidential elections or having a vote in Congress, has stalled economic progress and alienated the island. But islanders have not uniformly embraced the statehood option: they rejected it, though narrowly, in referendums in 1993 and 1998. And Congress, which must approve any change for the commonwealth, has stalled on the issue, unable to get past questions about the political and economic costs of incorporating a Spanish-speaking state.
 Ms. Calderon, who unsuccessfully lobbied Congress to grant the island more control over foreign trade, has lately tried another tack for influencing Washington: a voter registration drive for Puerto Ricans on the mainland, which she said had signed up more than 250,000 new voters, mostly in Florida and New York.
 ''If there are issues that affect the island,'' she said, ''it's important to get their support.''
 Ms. Calderon, 61, has dismissed the talk that she opted out of running again because she was frustrated by her lack of progress and did not want to face Mr. Rossello. She was merely ready to enjoy life outside politics, she said. 
 ''I would have loved four more years, and if I was younger I would have done it,'' she said. ''But at this stage I would like a more balanced life.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pedro Rossello's candidacy is opposed by Gov. Sila M. Calderon, though she isn't running again. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ETHICS (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CRIME RATES (66%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); TENNIS (50%); SPORTS (50%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (50%) Elections; Politics and Government; Election Issues; Ethics

PERSON: Abby Goodnough; Sila M (Gov) Calderon; Pedro Rossello; Anibal Acevedo Vila

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Puerto Rico; Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



525 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: High Times

BYLINE: By A.O. SCOTT

 BODY:
THE plot of ''Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle,'' succinctly summarized in the movie's title, consists of an amusing, anarchic grab-bag of road-picture mishaps and low-comedy gags. Many of the comic elements are predictable (dumb stoners doing dumb, stoned things, sexual come-ons and gross-outs of various kinds) while others are less so, like the part when Neil Patrick Harris, playing himself, starts licking the headrests on a Honda.
 But a clever bait-and-switch early in the film signals its sly subversive intentions. Its director is Danny Leiner, who made ''Dude, Where's My Car?,'' and he seems at first to pick up more or less where that movie, or any of its illustrious predecessors going back to ''Porky's,'' left off. An ex-frat boy type, with a roomy office in a New York high-rise, is finishing up his work week. His pal, immediately recognizable as the wilder half of a classic buddy-movie pair, shows up proposing a fun-filled weekend of babes, booze and bong hits. But what about that big report due on Monday? No problem: just dump it on the Korean guy in the far cubicle. Our hero is free to pursue the carefree debauchery that is his birthright. 
 Except, of course, that the pale-skinned frat boy type is not the hero at all. He and his friend (who happen to be played by the screenwriters, Hayden Schlossberg and Jon Hurwitz) are walk-on doofuses who pretty much walk out of the movie, leaving it in the hands of that unassuming Korean guy, Harold. He turns out to be the more uptight half of a classic buddy-movie pair -- the wilder half is his roommate, a South Asian former pre-med named Kumar -- intent on claiming their own share of carefree debauchery. In the process, they pretty much revolutionize the slacker-stoner-comedy genre. 
 Well, perhaps that's a bit grandiose, given that what Harold and Kumar really want to do, after a few Friday night tokes, is satisfy a powerful case of the munchies, an urge that leads them deep into the wilds of New Jersey and lands them in all kinds of trouble. But the movie's apparently simple shifts of racial and generational emphasis -- replacing the traditional white (or, in recent variants, black) teenagers or undergraduates with Asian-Americans in their post-college years -- at once upend the conventions of youth-oriented goofball comedy and revitalize them. ''Harold and Kumar'' is as delightfully stupid as ''Friday'' or ''Road Trip'' or ''Wet Hot American Summer,'' but it is also one of the few recent comedies that persuasively, and intelligently, engage the social realities of contemporary multicultural America.
 In some ways, Mr. Leiner, Mr. Hurvitz and Mr. Schlossberg and their stars, John Cho and Kal Penn, are broadening a venerable tradition of ethnic humor, trafficking in stereotypes and sending them up with equal verve. The stoners down the hall, for instance, are a pair of fast-talking former yeshiva boys who fire up a shofar for some Sabbath eve toking. On a pit stop in Princeton, Harold is dragooned into attending a meeting of an Asian-American student group, whose painfully earnest members pepper him with geeky questions about his investment banking job. Harold, confronted with the specter of his own squareness and conformity, manages to flee, only to miss out on the group's subsequent activity -- a raucous, uninhibited party, with drugs courtesy of the geekiest kid in the bunch. (The spectacle of good students behaving badly presents a tamer version of the studious Asian-American teenagers gone wild in ''Better Luck Tomorrow,'' Justin Lin's 2001 drama of honor-roll hoodlums, which featured Mr. Cho and which is name-checked in ''Harold and Kumar.'') The filmmakers are happy to laugh at Harold's buttoned-up careerism and cautious deference to authority, and also at the fact that Kumar's immigrant family, obsessed with the need for him to get high marks and make good impressions, seems to be composed entirely of physicians. But they also lash out -- in remarkably good humor, it must be said -- at the lazy, bigoted perceptions that bedevil Harold and Kumar in the course of their all-night odyssey.
 The prejudice that Harold and Kumar encounter -- expressed by a carload of extreme-sports headbangers and by doltish New Jersey law enforcement officers, among others -- is more a matter of inconvenience, of moronic uncoolness, than oppression. And in fighting back against it, Harold and Kumar are motivated less by a sense of wounded pride or profound injustice than by a familiar individualist exasperation. They just want hamburgers (and sex, and decent weed and a good time) -- which is to say they want what is theirs by birthright as young, affluent, reasonably good-looking American consumers. Though they are occasionally abused and insulted, they also carry with them assumptions of social privilege, intellectual capital and economic opportunity. They share a decent apartment in Hoboken. Harold has a spiffy silver Honda (at least until Doogie Howser gets a hold of it) paid for by his white collar, Wall Street job, while Kumar dawdles on the way to medical school, supported by his father while he indulges in a bit of late-adolescent rebellion.
 At first glance they could be poster children for early 21st-century American diversity (either that or marijuana legalization), except that the very word would totally kill their buzz. The impressive thing about ''Harold and Kumar'' is that it takes such blithe account of the fact of multiculturalism while having very little use for the concept. Or really, given its proud adherence to the standards of its genre, for any concept at all. It's not quite that ethnic differences don't exist, or that they're no big deal -- being insulted or mocked or made to feel invisible has a way of turning into a big deal. It's more that belonging to a certain group has no inherent meaning and brings with it no particular obligations of behavior.
 Whether confronted with racial taunts or with group expectations, Harold and Kumar tend to react by rolling their eyes. This stuff just gets in the way. In college campuses across the country, students today are carefully taught about the dangers of demeaning, negative imagery and about the historical marginality of nonwhite groups in a popular culture that has seen them as villains, clowns or nameless extras. The trailers for ''Harold and Kumar'' take satiric note of this tradition, identifying Mr. Penn as ''that Indian guy from 'Van Wilder' '' and Mr. Cho as ''that Asian guy from 'American Pie.' '' The movie itself picks at a few political scabs, as when the heroes share a jail cell with a racially profiled African-American lawyer who serenely schools them in the hierarchies of American social injustice.
 But the baggage of victimhood isn't really part of Harold and Kumar's nightlong road trip. Nor is the identity crisis that is a virtual requirement of immigrant literature. The kinds of books that Harold and Kumar would have been assigned to read in college, whether about Jewish-, Asian-, Italian- or Latino-Americans, feature a conflict between the traditions of the old country and the alluring freedoms of the new world, between customs that offer both confinement and continuity and choices that promise both liberation and loss. It's a durable tradition, stretching back to David Cahan's tales of Lower East Side striving in the early 19th century, through the anxious early novels of Saul Bellow and Philip Roth into the work of writers like Gish Jen and Sandra Cisneros, and it has become a staple of the post-Dead White Males literary curriculum. The dominant flavor in the melting pot is bittersweet, as the comedy of cultural collision is anchored in the pathos of yearning, betrayal and loss. In the movies, this predicament plays out in popular English domestic comedies like ''Bend It Like Beckham'' and ''East Is East'' and in warm, inspirational American dramas like ''Real Women Have Curves'' and ''What's Cooking?''
 In most cases, those conundrums of assimilation are happily resolved, as the young protagonists of those films -- and of the novels that tread over similar ground -- find a way to balance the demands of home and the lure of the world, to move on without forgetting where they came from. What is striking about ''Harold and Kumar'' is not that these issues are resolved differently but that they never really come up. The drama of hyphenation does not interest Harold and Kumar at all. They have more important things to worry about, like escaping from group sex with a hideous, boil-covered tow-truck driver, fending off a rabid raccoon and, above all, finding that elusive fast-food restaurant where all desires can be satisfied. In the future, a term paper will no doubt be written about the racial connotations of the name White Castle, about the way in which its elusiveness represents the mirage of assimilationist aspirations and its ultimate attainment suggests the terrible double-bind of American pluralism -- all of which is fine. But really, the thing is -- dude, they're hungry. 
 And why should they be any different from anybody else? Why shouldn't they crave a sack of sliders, dabble in hip-hop slang and sing along with bad 80's pop songs on the tapedeck? Why shouldn't Harold have a crush on the lovely young woman (Latina, by the way) who lives down the hall and with whom he shares silent, longing-filled elevator rides? The slap-happy conventions of youthful lowbrow comedy and the easy inclusiveness of consumerism conspire to dispel the stale clouds of identity politics. 
 Which is not to say that ''Harold and Kumar'' is altogether unconcerned with matters of identity. Comedies of young male recklessness situate their humor on the perennial anxieties attached to growing up, and their celebration of regression -- all those wild weekends and crazy, misadventurous road trips -- is a way of fighting off that anxiety. Harold and Kumar's journey is an ordeal of embarrassment and frustration, of evaporating sexual opportunities, humiliations and miscommunications, that ends, in keeping with the rules of the genre, with reassurance, satisfaction and the acceptance of responsibility. The bullies get told off, the burgers get eaten and that frat boy who thought he was the hero learns that that big report is still due first thing Monday morning.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 25 about the film ''Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle'' misspelled the surname of one of the writers at one point. He is Jon Hurwitz, not Hurvitz.
An article on July 25 about the film ''Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle'' misidentified the car driven by the title characters. It is a Toyota, not a Honda.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Cho and Kal Penn, right, as Harold and Kumar, seeking munchies and upending conventions. (Photographs by Sophie Giraud/New Line Productions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (63%); WRITERS (50%) Motion Pictures; Asian-Americans; Motion Pictures

PERSON: KAL PENN (54%) A O Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



526 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LONG ISLAND CITY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: High-Rises Are Arising, but Are They a Skyline?

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
''The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge,'' as F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote, ''is always the city seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.''
 It should go without saying that Fitzgerald was referring to Manhattan, ''rising up across the river in white heaps and sugar lumps.'' Queens, which Nick Carraway would have glimpsed had he turned around, has always had many things to offer. An awe-inspiring skyline was never among them. 
 But now the borough, home in Jay Gatsby's world to ash heaps and murderous mechanics, may be taking small steps skyward in Long Island City. The borough's tallest building, the 48-story Citigroup skyscraper at Court Square, is getting a 14-story neighbor across the street, the company announced this month. And Queens West, the development parcel across from the United Nations, is home to 42-story and a 32-story apartment buildings, and will get two more rental buildings, each over 30 stories tall. At the East River Tennis Club, two 28-story condominium towers are taking shape. 
 ''Certainly what was there before as you drove along F.D.R. Drive looking at Queens, it wasn't the most inviting view,'' said Joseph Conley, chairman of Community Board 2. ''There used to be this Manhattan view of Queens as being this gritty industrial area, because that's all you saw.'' 
 Tall buildings and the zoning that allows them could help give Queens a new image, Mr. Conley said. Still, new development must be done sensitively, he said, to protect residents' ''million-dollar view'' of Manhattan. 
 In Brooklyn too, a mini skyline might rise. Its highest building is the 34-story Williamsburgh Savings Bank, but if the developer Bruce Ratner gets his way and builds four towers as part of his Nets arena plan, one of those towers would stand taller than the bank. 
 But what about the view of Queens?
 Carol Willis, the director of the Skyscraper Museum in Lower Manhattan, was hesitant to pronounce it a skyline just yet. Of the planned Citigroup building, she said, ''I think it's certainly not a skyscraper.'' Plus, she added, ''You're not going to get a skyline with two buildings.'' 
 Ms. Willis said skyscrapers typically required access to mass transit, a waterfront and affordable land, all of which are available in Long Island City. But whether those qualities will yield a memorable skyline depends on a strong economy, a zeal for development and, perhaps most important, a lucky alignment of the stars.
 Could that happen in Queens anytime soon? 
 ''I guess you have to define 'soon,''' Ms. Willis said. JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Photo: It's lonely at the top, but the Citigroup building will get company. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Housing ; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Long Island City (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



527 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/West 23rd Street; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: David Barton Pumps Iron in a Former Y

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
STANDING in the lobby of the former McBurney Y.M.C.A. on West 23rd Street, David Barton recalled how for 10 years he would stare longingly at the Y's now century-old building and think about what might be. ''I live in the Chelsea Hotel across the street,'' Mr. Barton said, ''and I would look out my window and see the space and dream I could have a gym there.''
 Well, Mr. Barton, who already has two locations in Manhattan, is in the midst of fulfilling that dream. The Y moved to West 14th Street in December 2002, and Mr. Barton's new three-level, 25,000-square-foot, nearly $4 million flagship gym is to open on Aug. 26, featuring coed Russian baths and a steam room with a fiber-optic light show. 
 ''I was looking for years to move my Chelsea location from Sixth Avenue and 15th Street,'' Mr. Barton said. ''I was checking other sites, including the meatpacking district, but that's a little out of the way. Visibility is really important, and this is a perfect location.'' 
 It's a main thoroughfare, he said, ''there's a lot of foot traffic, upper Chelsea is booming, it's right next to the Seventh Avenue subway, the Eighth Avenue line is down the block and the Sixth Avenue is not far away. And it's a dreamy, fantasy space.''
 The McBurney Y, founded in 1869, took up residence in the 23rd Street building in 1904. Named for Robert Ross McBurney, a Y.M.C.A. founder in the 19th century, it had many famous visitors. Charles Merrill and Edmund Lynch (of Merrill Lynch) are said to have first met in the 23rd Street building's swimming pool, and it is believed to have inspired the Village People's late-70's hit song ''Y.M.C.A.'' 
 The developer Mitchell Marks bought the nine-story building at 215 West 23rd last year from Time Equities for $12.5 million to convert it to luxury condos; Mr. Barton said Mr. Marks approached him a year ago about opening a gym on the lower floors. 
 ''There was something sentimental,'' said Mr. Marks, who is also the president of First New York Realty. ''It used to be a Y.M.C.A., and I wanted a gym. I got much higher rental offers, from pet food companies and other retailers, that would have been much better economically. I also had offers from other gyms. But David is clearly the cutting-edge spa-gym that exists today. I'm creating an ultraluxury building, and I thought he was the right vibe.''
 The condo building features 3,500- to 7,500-square-foot apartments costing from $3.3 million to $7.5 million, he said. 
 The annual rent for the gym space is in the ''low $20's a square foot, or about $500,000,'' Mr. Barton said. The cost of building the gym, he said, is about $150 a square foot -- which comes to roughly $3.75 million. The developer is paying about half, Mr. Barton said, including all electrical, plumbing and mechanical work, as an inducement to rent the space. Memberships start at about $90 a month. 
 Mr. Barton does not resemble your typical entrepreneur. A native of Far Rockaway, Queens, the just-turned-40-year-old fitness maven was attired the other day in stark black T-shirt and orange pants, and his modern-cut black hair became mostly blond in a front spike. So it figures that his gym is not your typical gym.
 ''I'm turned off by the mass-markety gym business,'' he said. ''It's so chain-driven. I don't want to be everything to everybody. A lot of gyms look like Burger Kings, with orange desks and big colorful signs.''
 The old Y had a full-scale, high-ceilinged gym, with a running track, a basketball court and paddleball and handball courts, but it was a workout facility of a different era. When Mr. Barton's gym at 85th Street and Madison Avenue opened in 1995, it had tufted padding in pewter-hued vinyl on the walls reminiscent of vintage wrestling mats, huge pale-wood-framed mirrors leaning against columns, and a silver-leaf painting in the weight-lifting area.
 His 23rd Street gym, like the old Y's, will feature high ceilings -- for Mr. Barton, they will be 11 1/2, 15 and 18 feet. But then the differences begin. ''I didn't want to recreate the Y like a theme restaurant,'' he said. ''I wanted to reference it, to try to draw out the spirit of the architecture.''
 Beams in the lobby area will have the original moldings illuminated by ultramodern clusters of light. The main floor will have rows of cardio machines, plasma television sets, a cafe and a retail store with exercise gear from his new line designed by Zaldy. 
 Floors will be faux-leather; steel, unfinished walls, stone and concrete will be used as accents. Light fixtures, placed behind windows that do not get much light, will simulate sunlight shining in.
 A metal staircase with walnut treads will lead down to free weights, dumbbells and weight machines below ground -- and to an old 18-foot-long blue and white ''Y.M.C.A.'' sign salvaged from the previous tenant. An original century-old staircase on the main level -- ''my 'Gone With the Wind' staircase,'' he said -- will lead to the second floor. There, a gym member will find locker rooms, a 1,200-square-foot hot yoga room, the co-ed Russian baths -- ''20 to 30 percent humidity, a little wetter than a dry sauna, with stone tiling and river stones on the floor,'' Mr. Barton said -- and the steam room with the fiber-optic light show.
 ''The steam room is tiled, with directed beams of colored light that reflect off the steam,'' he said. ''The laser light comes up through the steam. As you walk in, your silhouette blocks the beams from below, so there's a little light show with your silhouette as you walk over and sit down.''
 The gym's architects are Enrico Bonetti and Dominic Kozerski, whose other clients include the designers Donna Karan and Diane von Furstenberg.
 Alan Victor, executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation, a retail brokerage, said he thought the gym would be ''a strong addition to the neighborhood.''
 ''He has a very strong following,'' Mr. Victor said, ''and I think it's as good a use of the space as you can have.''
 Mr. Barton said he expects to close the 15th Street gym. In addition to the gym at 85th and Madison, he has one at the Delano Hotel in Miami Beach, and he is planning to open gyms at the Hudson Hotel on West 58th Street and in Chicago on West Chicago Avenue. ''Mine is a niche market,'' he said, ''for people who want a certain level of service, who care about style.''
 After all, he said, ''it's not just a gym.''
 ''People spend a lot of time here,'' he said, ''often more than in their own living rooms: six hours out of their week, 300 hours out of their year. Sometimes people don't have a living room, and I'm giving them one. People need a place to be for social interaction, to appreciate the little details. It's vital, enriching, and good for the soul.''
 Mr. Barton pointed at a motto above the inner doors of the Y's entrance, words that for decades greeted visitors. ''Enter here,'' it reads, ''to be and find a friend.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OLD GYM, NEW GYM -- David Barton salvaged a sign from the McBurney Y.M.C.A. for his new gym. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)Drawing (Drawing by Bonetti/Kozerski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%) Gymnasiums

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: David Barton; Mervyn Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



528 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Could Send Sewage Into River, Lawmaker Says

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Most of the New Yorkers who have opposed the city's plans to redevelop the West Side and build a football stadium there actually live or work on the West Side, and dislike the proposed changes to the neighborhood. But State Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat and several other Harlem residents have a different reason for their opposition -- one that is more than four miles to the north.
 Mr. Espaillat is concerned about the proposal's effect on the sprawling North River Wastewater Treatment Plant, on the Hudson River from 137th Street to 145th Street. He and Peggy Shepard, co-founder of West Harlem Environmental Action, held a news conference on Friday to say that the city's ambitious plan to redevelop the West Side at the 34th Street rail yards could overwhelm the plant, causing untreated sewage to overflow into the river. 
 They seized on information contained in the city's own environmental impact statement, or E.I.S., for the project. Deep in its 4,300 pages the statement says that the sewage flow from the West Side to the treatment plant would climb to 8.6 million gallons a day by the time of the project's expected completion in 2025, from 1.1 million gallons now.
 Most of the increase would come from the 12,000 apartments and 28 million square feet of office space the city envisions for the area, which would include new skyscrapers, parks, an expanded convention center, and the 75,000-seat stadium for the Jets.
 And sewage is only one issue to emerge from the seven-volume environmental report, which elected officials, community groups, urban planners and stadium opponents are now digging through to unearth previously undisclosed details.
 The statement describes a dramatic change for the better for this drab former industrial area. But critics say it also contains significant warnings about traffic, transit, parking, air pollution, ground pollution and neighborhood schools, many of which are likely to become flashpoints during the seven-month approval process.
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, the city's point man on the project, said that relatively few problems have emerged from one of the city's most exhaustive environmental reviews. And most of these show up, he said, under worst-case scenarios after the redevelopment is completed.
 ''This plan is essential to securing New York's economic future,'' he said. ''Over time, 125,000 people will have jobs in this area and will generate more than $60 billion in new tax revenues. Existing conditions will change. But as the E.I.S. demonstrates, relative to the enormous benefits it will produce, the problems are very, very manageable.''
 Other city officials agree.
 ''I don't think there's any place in the United States where you could do a development of this magnitude with as few environmental issues as we're facing,'' said Sandy Hornick, deputy executive director at the city's Planning Department.
 Nonetheless, the city's own environmental statement raises several issues. During peak periods after the development is finished, 10 key intersections on the West Side of Manhattan will endure tie-ups of five minutes or more, the report says. The Queens-Midtown Tunnel would operate at more than 90 percent of capacity on game days. At midday, virtually every off-street parking space on the West Side would be taken, according to the report.
 There would also be long lines on some stairways, platforms and token booths in Herald Square, Times Square and at Grand Central Terminal, according to the report. Some problems could be fixed by installing high-speed escalators or widening stairwells, but at other stations, the report indicates that the problems cannot be solved.
 ''It's unusual for an E.I.S. to indicate that even with mitigation measures, there are still going to be some very significant problems,'' said Eric Goldstein, a staff lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council. Mr. Goldstein opposes the plan. Mr. Hornick said that the city was exploring other measures to ease the problems.
 In most areas of the West Side, the report said, street noise during an average day will be so loud that the city will require special insulation in new buildings, and it will offer to install double windows, although there were no cost estimates in the report. To prevent new buildings from adding to already serious air pollution on the West Side, the city will require new developers to use natural gas instead of fuel oil for heating and to move their smokestacks away from the edges of the towers.
 The report states that the city will give 99 properties ''E'' designations, indicating that there are potential environmental contamination problems, a familiar condition in industrial neighborhoods. 
 The city has yet to conduct soil samples at the 13.5-acre rail yard west of 11th Avenue, between 30th and 34th Streets, where the Jets hope to build a $1.4 billion stadium that would double as an adjunct to the nearby convention center. Many environmentalists expect severe contamination problems, given that the site has been a rail yard for 150 years.
 The report acknowledges that there will be a need for new schools for incoming residents, but there is no indication of where they would be or what they would cost. Finally, the report anticipates that the West Side will require an additional 309 megawatts of electricity. Mr. Hornick said that Con Edison would need to build two electrical substations and one transmission station, although it is unclear where they would be or how much they would cost.
 ''A plan of this magnitude needs to take into account all the potential infrastructure needs of a project and the neighborhood,'' said Councilwoman Christine Quinn, who represents the West Side. ''Come 2025 we can't come back and say, 'Oh, we need to put in new sewers.' Some might say we're being overly critical, but given the massive amount of development, the E.I.S. needs to be more specific than anything we've ever seen.''
 Mr. Espaillat said the redevelopment would overburden the sewage treatment plant in his neighborhood, predicting that overflows would be dumped into the Hudson River.
 ''This is exactly the type of weather that would increase the backup into sewage lines at the North River plant and result in untreated sewage being pumped into the Hudson,'' he said on Friday, gesturing at the rainstorm. ''It just doesn't have the capacity.''
 But city officials say the North River plant is currently operating at 132 million gallons a day, or 40 million gallons below its dry-weather capacity. There is more than enough room for the West Side expansion, they say. The environmental report concedes that there would be an increase of untreated sewage flowing into the Hudson during rainstorms. But it states that the overflow would not ''result in a significant adverse impact to water quality.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); AIR POLLUTION (62%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Roads and Traffic; Education and Schools; Transit Systems; Water Pollution 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (57%) New York Jets

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Adriano (Assemblyman) Espaillat

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Hudson River

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



529 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Drive Forward. Look Back. Predict.

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
THE gross domestic product -- the broad measure of output -- is the ultimate headline number for an economy. Everything from presidential election strategies to marketing plans for a new brand of shaving cream can hinge on the quarterly G.D.P. figures.
 Accordingly, economists on Wall Street, in corporate America and in academia spend much time plugging data into their meticulously designed models and producing precise forecasts. The Wall Street Journal, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and the newsletter Blue Chip Indicators are just a few of the organizations that compile and publish their predictions. But their collective vision is so murky that it seems as if economists are looking into a tankard of pitch-black Guinness's Ale instead of a crystal ball. 
 At the end of 2003, the 54 economists polled by The Wall Street Journal concluded that the G.D.P. would grow at an annual rate of 4.5 percent in the first quarter this year. The number came in at 3.9 percent. The participants' calls ranged from the laughably low -- Edward Leamer of the University of California, Los Angeles, predicted 2.7 percent -- to the absurdly high. Brian Wesbury of Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson Inc. and Lawrence Kudlow of Kudlow & Company -- supply-siders both -- predicted growth of 6.3 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively. If Al Roker foretold the weather with such accuracy on the ''Today'' show, he might be relegated to a Sunday morning daybreak slot. (Mr. Kudlow is still co-host of a prime-time program on CNBC.)
 And there is little consistency. John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Inc. and the reigning champion of The Wall Street Journal's survey, has been substantially off base in some surveys. ''It's a bit disconcerting to note that for some reason you do not find individuals repeating with any frequency in the top spot among forecasts,'' he said. 
 Why can social scientists' forecasts go awry? ''It's like driving ahead while looking in your mirror,'' said Gene Huang, chief economist at the Federal Express Corporation. The statistics that economists receive today often describe conditions from one or two months ago. What's more, many numbers -- including those for the G.D.P. -- are routinely revised several times after they are issued.
 But the data aren't the only problem. Economists, like most other humans, tend to forecast by extrapolating existing trends. That's fine when things tend to keep moving in the same direction. But when there is a shift, look out.
 Two economists, James Stock of Harvard and Mark W. Watson of Princeton, found that professional forecasters surveyed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had all the short-term vision of Mr. Magoo when the business cycle turned. In the fourth quarter of 2000, amid a long-running expansion, the three dozen economists in the survey projected that the economy would grow in the first quarter of 2001 at an annual rate of 3.3 percent; instead, it contracted at a 0.6 percent annual rate. In the fourth quarter of 2001, they said the economy would grow at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the first quarter of 2002. Oops. The actual figure was 5 percent. Acting on those forecasts would have left a business going full steam ahead when the bottom fell out, and idling while the economy was burning rubber. 
 Some economists say we shouldn't expect perfection. ''Over the long term what we as a profession can offer is consistently being pretty close most of the time,'' said Benjamin Herzon, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a consulting firm based in St. Louis.
 But if that's the best they can do, why should we pay attention? Well, consensus forecasts tend to produce better results than individual ones. A study published in 2003 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta concluded that the Blue Chip forecast, on average, ''performs better than any individual forecaster.'' And Mr. Huang, a member of the Wall Street Journal panel, argues that consensus forecasts ''serve as a collective wisdom of market perception.''
 Of course, the market isn't always right. In June, the evidence was abundant, from lower job-creation figures to limp sales at Wal-Mart, that the economy's growth was slowing. But forecasters -- perhaps influenced by several quarters of decent growth -- collectively believe that the pace of the economy is accelerating. The Wall Street Journal's 55 Nostradami believe that G.D.P. will grow at an annual rate of 4.4 percent for the second and third quarters, and at a 4.2 percent clip in the fourth. The Philadelphia Fed crowd forecasts a 4.5 percent pace for the second quarter, and 4 percent in the second half of 2004. If economists are still looking in the rear-view mirror, it may be time to gently apply the brakes.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Moving Target''Forecasts of economic growth show inconsistent results. Here are recent projections from one survey of economists, versus actual growth.Gross domestic productGraph tracks the quarterly change at annual rates (FORECAST, ACTUAL) since 2003.(Source by Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); MARKETING PLAN (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (73%); GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (68%); FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (73%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (63%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (63%)

PERSON: ROBERT HUANG (50%) Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



530 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2836 words

HEADLINE: Main Street vs. the Main Chance

BYLINE: By MARC FERRIS

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER 

 BODY:
ANY individual forced to cede to the demands of ''public use'' by, say, losing a home or a business to a new interstate is likely to have strong opinions about the right of eminent domain, the rule that allowed the government to come knocking at the door in the first place. 
 But imagine yielding to the ''superior dominion of the sovereign power'' (as one online dictionary describes government officialdom), and accepting compensation for your loss, only to discover that the ''sovereign power'' merely preferred to install a big-box store on Main Street, on a giant site that once housed your business as well as many others. 
 That is effectively what happened to William Brody, who in 1996 bought four buildings in downtown Port Chester, renovated them and rented them out to 10 small businesses. 
 In 1999, the village granted G & S Investors of Bethpage, N.Y., the exclusive right to develop 27 acres of land -- virtually the entire downtown, including Mr. Brody's buildings. 
 Adding to his sense of aggrievement, Mr. Brody says, he did not realize that his attendance at a public information hearing on the issue in June 1999 started the clock ticking on the 30-day period that would constitute his only chance to lodge a legal objection. 
 The village condemned Mr. Brody's property in 2002, he said, and bulldozed the buildings earlier this year.
 ''The statute says that they have to pay me at the time they take the land,'' he pointed out, ''but it took them a year after they took my buildings to pay me. The court ordered them to pay with interest and they still wouldn't do it. And they collected rent from my tenants the whole time.'' (John Watkins, a lawyer for the village, confirmed Mr. Brody's assertions but said there were legitimate reasons for the delay.)
 His lawyer, Dana Berliner of the Institute for Justice, a Washington legal organization, is representing him pro bono in a federal suit to reclaim his land. ''The system is insane,'' said Ms. Berliner, calling New York state's eminent-domain law the worst in the country. ''No layperson can be expected to understand it.'' 
 As related cases have emerged elsewhere in Westchester, including New Rochelle, Yonkers and Millwood, property owners and other advocates have expressed similar frustrations. The complaints center on the vagueness of the language of the statute governing such land seizures -- vagueness that opponents say makes it too easy for municipalities to act. To start with, governments planning to condemn and reuse property are not required to inform owners like Mr. Brody directly if they are found to be difficult to contact. The only requirement is that officials run legal notice of their intentions in a newspaper -- where an affected owner might or might not see it. 
 ''We are getting to a potential use of eminent domain that goes beyond what the law was intended to be and maybe even where it ought to be,'' said State Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, who along with State Senator Vincent Leibell has sponsored a bill that would require written notification of condemnation proceedings to be sent to all property owners. 
 Last month, both houses of the Assembly unanimously passed the bill, which would require municipalities to seek out property owners using local records. (Last year, Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed a similar bill that would have required title searches, arguing that it would be too expensive to implement.) 
 The revised measure would probably have protected Mr. Brody. But advocates argue that other vaguenesses in the eminent-domain law remain to be addressed. 
 One of those is language letting government agencies and municipalities condemn property ''for a public use, benefit, or purpose.'' Another is wording that allows for seizure of property if it is considered ''blighted.'' 
 The first phrase, argues Carol LaGrasse, president of the Property Rights Foundation of America, makes the law applicable not only to arguably necessary public construction like new highways but also to private land transfer in the name of economic revitalization. 
 The second, Ms. Berliner points out, is too subjective to be of any value. ''Eminent domain used to be employed in the 1950's and 1960's to get rid of slums,'' she said, ''but cities began to loosen the standards. Developers don't want bad neighborhoods. The areas they generally take are up-and-coming places that local businesses have rehabbed, which is exactly what happened in Port Chester.''
 Ms. LaGrasse concluded: ''The case law is rotten. We need statutory reform to refine and tie down what municipalities can use as an excuse for eminent domain.'' 
 Meanwhile, construction equipment is roaring in downtown Port Chester as the village's big-box development plan moves closer to fruition. Mayor Gerald Logan says the arrangement with G & S occurred under the previous administration, which obeyed the existing laws.
 ''This project was signed, sealed and ready to go,'' he said. ''All I could do as mayor was to show support for it and with my board make sure it proceeded in a timely manner.''
 THE G & S development will generate sales tax revenue and jobs, he said, noting that the completion of two new upscale private housing developments, Wellington Green and Brookchester Court, represent examples of the project's ripple effect. To an existing Costco store, the current construction will add national chain restaurants, a Marshall's, a Stop & Shop and a 14-screen movie theater. 
 The main justification used for granting development rights to G & S was that no other builders expressed any interest in the village because of its ''blighted'' character, said Mr. Watkins, the village lawyer.
 At the behest of G & S, the village has condemned 38 properties, relocating more than 100 families and 52 businesses. All but six property owners have accepted relocation. 
 Ms. LaGrasse expressed little surprise at these numbers, saying litigation is so expensive that the vast majority of property owners take what is offered. Those who do fight usually do so on principle alone, she said, as lawyers' fees often offset any increase in compensation awarded by the courts. 
 In New Rochelle, where the furniture giant Ikea threatened to uproot a residential neighborhood but backed off after fierce community opposition in 2001, another eminent domain situation has turned nasty. 
 With city backing, the Valhalla-based developer Louis R. Cappelli seeks to build a big-box store topped by condominiums on a municipal parking lot. The site, just across the street from the New Roc City mall, abuts property owned by Martin Silver, who occupies part of his building and wants to rent out the rest. 
 The snag is that the project as currently conceived will require tractor-trailers to make wide turns across part of Mr. Silver's parking lot -- which any tenant would need the use of. Earlier this month, to clear the way for eminent-domain proceedings, the city expanded the boundary of its urban renewal zone to include the Silver parking lot area and the empty part of the building. 
 And Mr. Silver's potential customers, he said, are on the fence, pending the outcome of the case. 
 According to Joseph Apicella, a senior manager at Cappelli Enterprises, Mr. Silver had originally agreed to accept $2.8 million for the needed space. 
 Mr. Apicella added that Mr. Silver knew about the redevelopment plan when he bought the property last September and is holding out to inflate its value artificially. ''I think that greed is playing a role here,'' Mr. Apicella said. ''Sometimes, a developer can be the victim. We're being held with a gun to our heads.'' Mr. Silver countered with an accusation that an offer to pay his legal bills had been withdrawn. As the bills now exceed $40,000, with the fight dragging on, he said, it is Mr. Cappelli who is acting in bad faith. 
 ''I decided I never should have made the offer to sell part of my building to begin with,'' he said, ''because I don't want to give up any control of the property.'' 
 As a Yonkers case shows, meanwhile, litigation is not the only resort for opponents of eminent domain. Last year, after the City of Yonkers threatened to replace his building with a minor-league baseball stadium and adjoining 100,000-square-foot retail complex, Martin Goldman sought to place his 1930's-era C.H. Martin's department store on the state and national registers of historic places. 
 Such a designation would automatically engender a detailed review of any encroaching project that uses state or federal money.
 (There would still be room for the ballpark alone even if Mr. Goldman's store was preserved. It would be run by a private, for-profit corporation with several city officials in executive positions and on its board, said Deborah Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Goldman.) 
 Mr. Goldman won a double victory last month when the city Landmarks Preservation Board voted to recommend not only registering the store with the state as a historic place but also designating it as a city landmark, which offers further protection from possible demolition. 
 Mayor Phil Amicone opposes the historic designations, which in the case of local landmark status require approval from the City Council, and at the state level require that of the Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation commissioner. From there, sites are generally added to the national register pro forma.
 In Millwood, a property owner named Leo Rotta has resorted to the court of public opinion to stave off attempts to replace his lumberyard with a new firehouse. He has sent glossy mailings to residents, set up a Web site and placed ads in local newspapers. 
 Mark Tulis, former supervisor of the Town of New Castle and a land-use lawyer who represents the Millwood fire district, says that because the law clearly stipulates that firehouses represent a public purpose, Mr. Rotta ''has little chance of winning in court, so I can understand why he is undertaking a P.R. campaign.'' 
 Mr. Rotta counters that just because the fire district can take his land does not mean it should. He argues that the current firehouse could be enlarged, citing a report on the relocation written by the fire district's board of commissioners a few years ago. The report, which never even considered Mr. Rotta's property, concluded that ''the Millwood Ball Field would be the best choice for a new firehouse.'' It even called that site a ''win-win situation for everyone,'' save for the requirement that the State Legislature approve any transfer of park land to the fire district.
 A recent architectural study commissioned by the town indicates that Mr. Rotta's lumberyard cannot provide adequate on-site sewage and storm water retention. Were the department to buy a ladder truck -- a reason given for moving the firehouse from its present location -- the lumberyard would be inadequate, according to the report.
 A Millwood fire official did not return phone calls seeking comment.
 Although Mr. Rotta has said he will not sell his land under any circumstances, the case may ultimately turn on the results of an appraisal battle -- which would make for a typical eminent-domain dispute. The property has in the past been valued at $3 million, yet an appraiser hired by the town arrived at a figure of $1 million.
 Such divergent estimates are the norm, said Edward J. Ferrarone, president of Lane Appraisers, based in Larchmont, which determined the million-dollar figure. 
 ''The law says if you're taking someone's property, you must pay them the value of the property based on its highest and best use, not necessarily what exists,'' he said. ''Zoning goes out the window, which compounds the problem. If you have a house sitting on five acres of land, it can be appraised one way, but another way is to say you can knock down the house and build the Empire State Building there.''
 And back in Port Chester, business owners besides Mr. Brody have expressed unhappiness with the village's plans. Bart Didden and Dick Bologna took issue with the sum offered to them for their patch of land on North Main Street.
 In July 2003, they announced a deal to open a 12,000-square-foot CVS on the site and received approval from the village Planning Commission, even though the property fell within the area awarded to G & S. CVS had looked at the site in 2002, but rejected it because of a lack of parking, said Todd Andrews, a company spokesman. The reconfigured deal allowed for a drive-through window along with about 50 parking spaces. The plan represented a public benefit, Mr. Andrews said, as the nearest pharmacy is in a neighboring town. 
 Last December G & S offered Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna a choice: either accept $800,000 to relinquish their property to G & S, or pay the same amount to buy out the right granted to G & S, which would allow the CVS plan to proceed. The day after Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna rejected both offers, the village initiated condemnation proceedings. In April the property was seized; G & S plans to build a Walgreen's on the site. 
 Claiming that the payment request represented extortion, and that the G & S deal constituted an invalid public purpose, Mr. Didden and Mr. Bologna sued in United States District Court. In a ruling delivered in May, Judge Colleen McMahon determined that any objections to the G & S deal could only have been considered back in 1999, before it was cemented. The case is currently on appeal.
 Mr. Bologna said that even if he and his partner had accepted the $800,000 to quit the CVS deal, they would have forfeited not only the property taxes they have paid over the years, but also the annual income they would have collected from CVS. He also disputed the contention that the sum represents fair-market value, a matter that will ultimately be adjudicated.
 Mr. Tulis, who represents the village, says that ''one person's low-ball offer is another's gambit to negotiate a fair deal.'' The property's value has appreciated over the last five years, he maintains, precisely becauseG & S has pumped $200 million into the downtown area. 
 ''We didn't ask for anything out of the ordinary,'' Mr. Bologna said. ''We just want to develop our property.'' 

Property Rights Aren't Always So Sacred
 THE Fifth Amendment to the Constitution states that public property shall not be taken for ''public use, without just compensation.'' The Fourteenth Amendment holds that no state shall ''deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.''
 From such vague instructions derive New York State's Eminent Domain Procedure Law -- which, subject to its own broad provisions, allows government agencies and municipalities to condemn a private property ''for a public use, benefit, or purpose.'' 
 Once defined as taking private property to build a road, the designation has become so blurred that ''we've moved from cases where the government owns and uses the property to projects that might produce increased tax revenue in 20 years,'' said Dana Berliner, an eminent-domain expert with the Institute for Justice, an advocacy group in Washington.
 New York's urban renewal statutes contribute their share to the confusion, allowing for the wide interpretation of what constitutes blight, the subject of a landmark 1954 Supreme Court case that upheld the razing of a District of Columbia neighborhood. 
 ''Half the properties had no plumbing, it had the highest rate of infant mortality and disease, and many of the buildings were beyond repair,'' Ms. Berliner said. ''Courts and states have loosened the interpretation so much that we've now moved from areas without plumbing to areas without enough parking.''
 And one person's blight is another's unpolished gem, said Deborah Cohen, a lawyer who fought the Ikea plan in New Rochelle and is representing opponents of the Yonkers ballpark. 
 ''Often municipalities will draw up redevelopment proposals for years before they spring it on the public,'' Ms. Cohen said, ''all the while allowing areas to deteriorate. Land values drop, too, so developers get the properties for a song.''
 The federal Urban Renewal Law of 1949 required that residential areas demolished for redevelopment be replaced by other residential structures, but that, too, has changed, Ms. Berliner said. 
 New York law also mandates that government agencies considering condemning a property hold a public hearing and allow ''reasonable opportunity'' for landholders to present statements and documents. 
 The problem, Ms. Berliner said, is that most opponents of condemnation end up without enough time to present their cases. In addition: officials are not obliged to answer questions; the scope of a project and the exact properties to be affected are not always divulged to opponents; and the only appeal is through the courts, which takes time and costs money. 
 ''Property rights are held to be near-sacred,'' Ms. Cohen said, ''but the abuses of eminent domain are so legion that the issue has made allies of people on opposite ends of the political spectrum.'' MARC FERRIS


GRAPHIC: Photos: The old abutting the new in Port Chester, where G & S Investors is developing a 27-acre site on North Main Street. To make the deal happen, the village condemned 38 properties, relocating more than 100 families and 52 businesses. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Dick Bologna, left, and his partner Bart Didden took issue with the sum offered to them for their land on North Main Street, above. Port Chester seized it anyway.
 Leo Rotta, above, is fighting to save his lumberyard, which he says isn't the only site Millwood can find for its new fire station. William Brody, who has already lost buildings in Port Chester, said he wasn't paid until a year later, ''and they collected rent from my tenants the whole time.'' (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LAW (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%); RETAILERS (55%) Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: G & S Investors

PERSON: William Brody; Marc Ferris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Port Chester (NY); Westchester County (NY); New York State; Port Chester (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



531 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Susan Williams, Michael Zwirn

 BODY:
Susan Marie Williams, a daughter of Thelma M. Williams and Philip W. Williams of North Quincy, Mass., is to be married today to Michael Jonathan Zwirn, a son of Enid V. Zwirn and Leslie B. Zwirn of Indianapolis. The Rev. 
David M. O'Leary, a Roman Catholic priest, is to perform the ceremony at the Goddard Chapel at Tufts University in Medford, Mass. Rabbi David B. Kudan is to take part in the service.
 The bride, 32, graduated magna cum laude from Tufts. The bridegroom, 30, is a cum laude graduate of Carleton College. They met at the Fletcher School at Tufts, where they received master's degrees in law and diplomacy.
 Ms. Williams, who will keep her name, is the manager of both fund-raising and administration at Green Empowerment, an organization in Portland, Ore., that works to provide electricity and clean drinking water in developing countries. In the 1994-95 academic year, she was a Fulbright scholar at the Comprehensive University of Madrid, where she studied European Union environmental policy.
 Mr. Zwirn is the policy analyst and the fund-raising coordinator at the Wild Salmon Center in Portland, which works to preserve Pacific salmon and their habitat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FUNDRAISING (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); RELIGION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (67%) OREGON, USA (76%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



532 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The Nation; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2509 words

HEADLINE: Democrats, Lend Me Your Ears

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr. and HUGH K. TRUSLOW

 BODY:
THE nominee is a foregone conclusion and platform debates long ago gave way to choreographed displays of party unity. So what constitutes drama at a national political convention? For most Americans -- and certainly for the news media, which will lean in most attentively during prime-time hours -- the drama now resides almost exclusively in the speeches.
 No, really.
 Although there is no guarantee that the 2004 Democratic convention, which kicks off in Boston tomorrow and runs through Thursday, will produce oratory of historic proportions, a number of speeches from past conventions have been included in anthologies and elevated by lovers of language to hall-of-fame status.
 A 1942 collection edited by Lewis Copeland, ''The World's Great Speeches,'' included two convention speakers. The ''Penguin Book of 20th Century Speeches'' (1999 edition), transcribes six -- five of them from Democrats. And Willam Safire's 1997 book ''Lend Me Your Ears: Great Speeches in History'' includes several convention speeches, from Willam Jennings Bryan's ''Cross of Gold'' address in 1896 to George H. W. Bush's 1988 convention pledge: ''Read my lips, no new taxes.'' 
 But do convention speeches really matter?
 ''In a day in which there are so many competing messages, these speeches may even be more important,'' says Professor Stephen E. Lucas, who teaches communication arts at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. Even for those who have been following the campaign, he added, the speeches are probably the first opportunity to hear directly from the candidates at length.
 Professor Lucas, along with Martin J. Medhurst of Baylor University, included a number of convention homilies in their 1999 list of ''Top 100'' speeches of the 20th century, which is available online at news.wisc.edu/misc/speeches. 
 Some of them -- along with a few other standouts -- are excerpted below. Audio and text for these and other notable Democratic convention speeches are also available on the Web at nytimes.com/weekinreview.
 TOM ZELLER Jr. and HUGH K. TRUSLOW

 ''If they ask us why it is that we say more on the money question than we say upon the tariff question, I reply that, if protection has slain its thousands, the gold standard has slain its tens of thousands.''
 ''You come to us and tell us that the great cities are in favor of the gold standard; we reply that the great cities rest upon our broad and fertile prairies. Burn down your cities and leave our farms, and your cities will spring up again as if by magic; but destroy our farms and the grass will grow in the streets of every city in the country.''
 ''Having behind us the producing masses of this nation and the world, supported by the commercial interests, the laboring interests and the toilers everywhere, we will answer their demand for a gold standard by saying to them: You shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns. You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.''

1936
FRANKLIN D.ROOSEVELT
Philadelphia

Accepting his second nomination in the midst of the Great Depression, Mr. Roosevelt painted Republicans in monarchical hues and rallied the country to a rendezvous with destiny.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''For out of this modern civilization economic royalists carved new dynasties. New kingdoms were built upon concentration of control over material things. Through new uses of corporations, banks and securities, new machinery of industry and agriculture, of labor and capital -- all undreamed of by the fathers -- the whole structure of modern life was impressed into this royal service.''
 ''There is a mysterious cycle in human events. To some generations much is given. Of other generations much is expected. This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny.''

* [Rank: 66]
1948
HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
Philadelphia

After heated platform debate, Humphrey delivered a powerful argument for what became the party's most progressive civil rights plank up to that point. The platform caused a split in the party between civil-rights advocates and the so-called Dixiecrats.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''Friends, delegates, I do not believe that there can be any compromise on the guarantee of civil rights. ... 
 In spite of my desire for unanimous agreement on the entire platform, in spite of my desire to see everybody here in honest and unanimous agreement, there are some matters which I think must be stated clearly and without qualification. There can be no hedging -- the newspaper headlines are wrong! There will be no hedging, and there will be no watering down -- if you please of the instruments and the principals of the civil-rights program!
 To those who say -- my friends -- to those who say that we are rushing this issue of civil rights, I say to them we are 172 years late! To those who say, to those who say this civil-rights program is an infringement on states rights, I say this: The time has arrived in America for the Democratic Party to get out of the shadow of states' rights and walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of human rights!''

1948
HARRY S. TRUMAN
Philadelphia

In animated, feisty style, Mr. Truman hammered Republicans in Congress and convinced worried Democrats that he could defeat Thomas E. Dewey, his Republican challenger. He spoke well after midnight, taking the stage in a white linen suit.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''Senator Barkley and I will win this election and make these Republicans like it -- don't you forget that!''
 ''The Republican Party, as I said a while ago, favors the privileged few and not the common everyday man. Ever since its inception, that party has been under the control of special privilege; and they have completely proved it in the 80th Congress. They proved it by the things they did to the people, and not for them. They proved it by the things they failed to do.''

* [Rank: 56]
1952
ADLAI E. STEVENSON
Chicago

Though at first reluctant, Mr. Stevenson accepted the party's nomination and delivered a speech that many at the time said ''electrified the nation.''

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''I have not sought the honor you have done me. I could not seek it, because I aspired to another office, which was the full measure of my ambition, and one does not treat the highest office within the gift of the people of Illinois as an alternative or as a consolation prize.
 I would not seek your nomination for the presidency, because the burdens of that office stagger the imagination. Its potential for good or evil, now and in the years of our lives, smothers exultation and converts vanity to prayer.''
 ''That my heart has been troubled, that I have not sought this nomination, that I could not seek it in good conscience, that I would not seek it in honest self-appraisal, is not to say that I value it the less. Rather, it is that I revere the office of the presidency of the United States. And now, my friends, that you have made your decision, I will fight to win that office with -- with all my heart and my soul. And, with your help, I have no doubt that we will win.''

(Mr. Stevenson lost the election to the Republican candidate, Dwight D. Eisenhower.)

* [Rank: 5]
1976
BARBARA C. JORDAN
New York

Elected to Congress in 1972, Ms. Jordan delivered a keynote address that, in its halting delivery and stark eloquence, instantly became part of the oratory canon.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''It was 144 years ago that members of the Democratic Party first met in convention to select a presidential candidate. ... And our meeting this week is a continuation of that tradition. But there is something different about tonight. ... What is special?
 I, Barbara Jordan, am a keynote speaker. A lot of years passed since 1832, and during that time, it would have been most unusual for any national political party to ask that Barbara Jordan to deliver a keynote address. But tonight here I am. And I feel that notwithstanding the past that my presence here is one additional bit of evidence that the American Dream need not forever be deferred.''
 ''I am going to close my speech by quoting a Republican president. And I ask you, that as you listen to these words of Abraham Lincoln, relate them to the concept of a national community in which every last one of us participates:
 'As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea of Democracy. Whatever differs from this, to the extent of the difference, is no Democracy.' ''

* [Rank: 11, 12, 58]
1984
MARIO M. CUOMO
JESSE L. JACKSON
GERALDINE A. FERRARO
San Francisco

The party lost the election, but 1984 was a banner year for Democratic convention speeches. Three made it to the experts' top 100 list.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''The Republicans believe that the wagon train will not make it to the frontier unless some of the old, some of the young, some of the weak are left behind by the side of the trail. The strong -- the strong, they tell us -- will inherit the land.
 We Democrats believe in something else. We Democrats believe that we can make it all the way with the whole family intact.''
 ''We must get the American public to look past the glitter, beyond the showmanship, to reality, to the hard substance of things. And we will do that not so much with speeches that sound good as with speeches that are good and sound. Not so much with speeches that will bring people to their feet as with speeches that bring people to their senses.''
 Mr. Cuomo
 ''America is not like a blanket -- one piece of unbroken cloth, the same color, the same texture, the same size. America is more like a quilt: many patches, many pieces, many colors, many sizes, all woven and held together by a common thread. The white, the Hispanic, the black, the Arab, the Jew, the woman, the native American, the small farmer, the businessperson, the environmentalist, the peace activist, the young, the old, the lesbian, the gay, and the disabled make up the American quilt.'' Mr. Jackson
 ''By choosing a woman to run for our nation's second-highest office, you send a powerful signal to all Americans: There are no doors we cannot unlock. We will place no limits on achievement. If we can do this, we can do anything.''
 Ms. Ferraro

* [Rank: 38]
1988
ANN RICHARDS
Atlanta

Her speech was delivered three years before she became governor of Texas, a post she held until 1995, when she was defeated by George W. Bush.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''I'm a grandmother now, and I have one perfect granddaughter named Lily. And when I hold that grandbaby, I feel the continuity of life that unites us, that binds generation to generation, that ties us with each other.''
 ''I just hope that, like her grandparents and her great-grandparents before, that Lily goes on to raise her kids with the promise that echoes in homes across America: That we can do better.''

* [Rank: 81]
1992
ELIZABETH GLASER
New York

Ms. Glaser unknowingly contracted AIDS from a blood transfusion and passed it on to her two children. She died in 1994.

SELECTED EXCERPTS
 ''I started out just a mom, fighting for the life of her child. But along the way, I learned how unfair America can be. Not just for the people who have H.I.V., but for many, many people -- gay people, people of color, children. A strange spokesperson for such a group: a well-to-do white woman. But I have learned my lessons the hard way, and I know that America has lost her path and is at risk of losing her soul. America, wake up. We are all in a struggle between life and death.''
 ''We all need to hope that our dreams can come true. I challenge you to make it happen, because all our lives, not just mine, depend on it.''

Chart: ''The 2004 Convention: Will Oratorical History Be Made?''
What to listen for this week, based on conversations with Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian, and with scholars of political speech, including Stephen E. Lucas of the University of Wisconsin at Madison; Martin J. Medhurst of Baylor University; and Roderick P. Hart of the University of Texas at Austin.

Bill Clinton

AGE -- 57; born Aug. 19, 1946, in Hope, Ark.

EDUCATION -- Graduated from Georgetown University; received a Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford University; received a law degree from Yale.

SCHEDULED TO SPEAK -- Monday, July 26.

SPEAKER TRIVIA -- Has said his favorite movie is ''High Noon.''

RHETORICAL CHOPS
Not given to memorable turns of phrase, a la F.D.R., Mr. Clinton instead combines rhetorical dexterity and an emotional center with a magnetic stage presence. Look for him to recall an America from the not-sodistant past -- one with a booming economy, plentiful jobs, a budget surplus and a Democrat in the White House -- and to suggest that a Kerry administration would offer the same. The core question, though, seems to be: Will he come in under an hour?

Barack Obama

AGE -- 42; born Aug. 4, 1961, in Hawaii.

EDUCATION -- B.A. from Columbia; graduate degree from Harvard Law School.

SCHEDULED TO SPEAK -- Tuesday, July 27.

SPEAKER TRIVIA -- Barack means ''Blessed by God'' in Swahili.

RHETORICAL CHOPS
Mr. Obama, who stands a good chance to be the next United States senator from Illinois, remains something of an unknown quantity in set-piece oratory, but it is safe to say a nationally televised prime-time keynote speech is a whole new kind of scrutiny for him. Keynotes are frequently showcases for the party's promising new faces and come with high expectations. They can articulate broad themes of the party, but in the main seek to energize and unify the faithful. Already seen as a rising star within the party, Mr. Obama could win wide acclaim or dim his fortunes.

John Edwards

AGE -- 51; born June 10, 1953, in Seneca, S.C.

EDUCATION -- North Carolina State University (undergrad); University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (law school).

SCHEDULED TO SPEAK -- Wednesday, July 28.

SPEAKER TRIVIA -- Changed his name from Johnny Reid Edwards to John Reid Edwards when he started his legal career.

RHETORICAL CHOPS
Mr. Edwards established himself as a rhetorical force to be reckoned with in the primary campaign, especially in extemporaneous speaking of the kind one might expect from, well, a former trial lawyer. But questions of gravitas remain: Is this a man who is ready to step in as president? And how much will remain of the populist Edwards who spoke of ''two Americas'' during the primaries? He will play a large part in the conventionwide effort to define and praise the nominee.

John Kerry

AGE -- 60; born Dec. 11 1943, Aurora, Colo.

EDUCATION -- Yale (undergrad); Boston College Law School.

SCHEDULED TO SPEAK -- Thursday, July 29.

SPEAKER TRIVIA -- With a friend, opened a cookie and muffin shop in Boston in 1976.

RHETORICAL CHOPS
The conventional rap on Mr. Kerry is that he is a little stiff and a little stilted on the stump. Of course, he and his handlers know this, and his speech on Thursday, the climactic moment of the convention, is sure to be exhaustively rewritten and rehearsed. Mr. Kerry's task is to unleash the fervor of already partisan Democrats, and put bold outlines on his still-fuzzy image in the minds of swing voters yet to be convinced. Without a doubt, it is a speech that will matter like no other in Kerry's long political career.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture on July 25 in a chart sampling memorable Democratic convention speeches of the past was published in error. It showed Adlai E. Stevenson III, not his father, Adlai E. Stevenson, whose 1952 speech was quoted. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: TURKEY HUNT -- A security dog sniffed the podium before the 1996 Democratic convention. Dogs are unable, however, to detect speeches that will bomb. (Photo by Keith Myers/The New York Times)
(Photograph by The Associated Press)
(Photograph by The Associated Press)
(Photograph by Reuters)
 (Photograph by Getty Images)Chart: ''Parts of Speech(es)''A selection of notable Democratic convention speeches.* Speeches with this symbol are among the top 100 speeches of the 20th century, as identified by researchers at news.wisc.edu/misc speeches. Rank on that list is shown in bold.1896WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYANChicagoAn opponent of the gold standard and a religious fundamentalist, Mr. Bryan evoked the strength of Midwestern laborers and used Christian imagery to persuade the delegates to adopt his plank, winning the first of his three presidential nominations.SELECTED EXCERPTS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



533 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Minimum-Wage Work

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Making More Pays Less,'' by Richard V. Burkhauser (Op-Ed, July 18):
 Many minimum-wage earners are single parents. Many are immigrant laborers (who always do the jobs no one else will do) and those who can't find more lucrative jobs. 
 Many are struggling to keep themselves afloat without resorting to welfare. They are all hard-working people.
 It may help the public to know that raising the minimum wage in the past never hurt the economy. Any argument against raising the minimum wage is an insult to those hard-working, decent people trying not to be a burden to society.

Hyman Adelman
Somers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); SINGLE PARENTS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

PERSON: Hyman Adelman; Richard V Burkhauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



534 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Worlds Apart On the Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''In the Political Blame Game, Somebody Has to Be 'It''' (Everybody's Business, July 18) Ben Stein contended that the Web sites of the Democratic National Committee and the Kerry-Edwards campaign were ignoring the role of personal responsibility in Americans' economic problems. 
 Mr. Stein wrote that ''people get the jobs for which they are qualified, by skill and education'' and that this education is ''available everywhere.'' 
 What idyllic meritocracy is he describing? I'd love to live in this place where people who lack jobs, good-paying or otherwise, need just a light-bulb moment to direct them to the requisite education.
 In Mr. Stein's world, the middle class can largely control what it earns and spends, and the high risk of bankruptcy results from people buying boats, motor homes and other things they can't afford. In my world, the price that my work commands has gone down, while the price of just about everything I buy has gone up. And I'm not talking about boats and motor homes. The majority of my credit card debt can be traced to food, shelter and health care.

Yvette Bozzini
Albany, Calif., July 19


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%) United States Economy

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (58%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (58%)

PERSON: yvette bozzini; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



535 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: America's Shortage of Quality Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''More Jobs, Worse Work'' (Op-Ed, July 22), Stephen S. Roach, a Morgan Stanley economist, reviews the data showing that the current economic recovery is producing jobs mostly at the bottom (44 percent of new hires) and top (29 percent) of the income ladder, effectively shrinking the middle class. Mr. Roach offers an explanation of this trend: global labor arbitrage. 
 Although wage differentials between countries present excellent business opportunities for multinational companies, and may create some high-paying jobs within the United States, the bulk of our middle class will continue to experience downward pressure on wages until this wage gap closes. Why should the middle class accept these policies?
 If we continue to ignore this issue, a day of political reckoning is inevitable.

William D. Henderson
Bloomington, Ind., July 23, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



536 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: America's Shortage of Quality Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As Stephen S. Roach points out, the Bush economic program is failing to generate the quality jobs that the administration promised. Worse yet, the massive tax cuts that have led to a ballooning deficit have made it possible for American investors to create jobs in India, China and everywhere else -- except here in the United States.

Keith R. Schmitz
Shorewood, Wis., July 22, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (91%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



537 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 7-25-04: QUESTIONS FOR CARL HIAASEN; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Miami Voice

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: Your new novel, ''Skinny Dip,'' would have us believe that every individual in the state of Florida is either a bimbo, a scam artist or a crooked politician. 
 The Florida in my novels is not as seedy as the real Florida. It's hard to stay ahead of the curve. Every time I write a scene that I think is the sickest thing I have ever dreamed up, it is surpassed by something that happens in real life. 
 I am wondering if the former Florida governor who appears in so many of your novels, a guy named Skink who eats road kill and wears a shower cap, is based on the state's real-life governor. Has Jeb Bush ever made a public appearance in a shower cap? 
 It's not an image I would entertain at this point. 
 Have you met Jeb? 
 Yes, I have. I did a literacy benefit with him and his mother. Jeb was as gracious as he could be, because I am sure I am not on his list of favorite writers. 
 Are you saying that he doesn't care for satirical novels? 
 He reads a lot. But he reads bills. 
 What do you admire about him? 
 He has a good sense of humor. I told him that I never get asked to any Christmas parties by Democrats or Republicans because I manage to tick off everybody. A month later, an invitation to his Christmas party in Tallahassee arrives in the mail. 
 Did you go?
 No, I was busy. I was changing the oil in my outboard engine that day. 
 You still write a column for The Miami Herald, where you have worked for almost 30 years. 
 I am like Al Pacino in ''The Godfather.'' I try to get out, and it just keeps sucking you back. 
 I hope you are not comparing journalism to the mob! 
 I think the mob would come out favorably in that comparison. 
 Have you ever done anything illegal? 
 My driving record is not exemplary, but I have never had a speeding ticket over 100 m.p.h. 
 I can say that unequivocally. 
 What about drugs? 
 Not in many, many years. The one and only time I tried cocaine, all it did was make me talk more, which is not a desirable trait to those around me. I was yapping like Kelly Ripa. 
 What do you do for fun? 
 I live right on the edge of the Everglades National Park. I go out in my boat, and in 10 minutes I am in the middle of nowhere. It's about as close as you can get to a holy moment. 
 Do you laugh at your own sentences when you are writing them? 
 I never laugh or smile when I am writing. When I come home for lunch after writing all morning, my wife says I look like I just came home from a funeral. This is not bragging. This is an illness. I've awakened in the middle of the night horrified over an adjective or adverb I used during the day. 
 Have you ever been blocked? 
 Not really. There is no writer's block in a newsroom. There's only unemployment block. 
 What sort of fiction do you like to read? 
 When I am in the middle of a novel, I do very little reading of fiction. I am not going to dive into Garcia Marquez in the middle of one of my novels, because I would just want to give up and hang myself. 
 How old are you? 
 Fifty-one.
 That's the same age as John Edwards, and both of you look 23. 
 I have a lot more gray hair than Edwards. I am going for the Richard Gere thing. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Mackenzie Stroh)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); COCAINE (60%) Books and Literature

PERSON: Carl Hiassen; Deborah Solomon

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



538 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Catching Up to the Cost of Global Warming

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
ONE does not often hear financial analysts talk about climate change, but this month John A. Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, organized a teleconference to address a troubling question for Detroit's automakers: As regulators around the world move to curb global-warming emissions from cars and improve fuel efficiency, what happens if Wall Street adds up the costs?
 The most likely answer will not make General Motors and Ford Motor very happy. Mr. Casesa's call included a presentation by the World Resources Institute, an environmental policy group in Washington, which recently issued a report on the subject with Sustainable Asset Management, an investment group based in Zurich.
 The report forecasts that G.M. and Ford stand to lose the most, financially, of any automakers in complying with regulations that the groups expect the United States, Europe and Japan to adopt over the next decade -- rules in addition to the pollution controls put in place over the last half-century. 
 Ford would have to spend $403 more on each vehicle to meet the expected new standards, the report estimates, and G.M. would have to spend $377 more. By contrast, the added cost to Honda would be just $24. 
 Car for car, BMW would have to spend even more than Ford or G.M., $649 on each vehicle, the report found, but because its prices are much higher, it would not be as difficult for it to absorb the cost. 
 Perhaps the most troubling finding for G.M. and Ford, the last two major automakers based in the United States, is that some foreign competitors, particularly Toyota, may actually be helped by tougher regulations because they have already invested much more in fuel-efficiency technologies, like hybrid gas-electric engine systems, that could generate profits. 
 Regulations related to fuel economy and global warming are ''going to be one of the key drivers that determines competitiveness in the industry over the next decade and beyond,'' said Duncan Austin, who until recently was a senior economist at the World Resources Institute. He left to join a new investment firm that plans to use financial analysis to assess the effects of environmental rules and social trends. 
 One problem for analysts and investors who try to estimate these costs is predicting the outcome of the regulatory process, including the practical effects of voluntary agreements between governments and industry. 
 China, which has the world's fastest-growing auto market, is preparing to introduce fuel economy standards -- a move that will add momentum to the worldwide push for more efficient vehicles. 
 The European Union and Japan are phasing in curbs on automotive emissions of global-warming gases, which rise and fall almost in lock step with fuel use. The Bush administration has moved away from an international agreement, known as the Kyoto Protocol, to cap global-warming emissions, but California has drafted its own plan and several Northeastern states may follow suit. 
 ''As a U.S. auto analyst, I'm very concerned about the risk side of the equation,'' said Mr. Casesa of Merrill Lynch. ''For the domestic auto companies, we've had an accommodating energy policy, but there are new issues like climate change, and there are new geopolitical issues, defense issues, that relate to our energy policy.
 ''There's the potential for a confluence of events to occur,'' he added. ''Americans could be more concerned about climate change, while at the same time we try to reduce our dependence on the Middle East for oil, for national security or political reasons. If these two strands come together, that would put a lot of pressure on policy makers, which would invariably lead back to higher fuel-economy standards.''
 That would be especially painful for Ford and G.M. because they rely heavily on sales of light-duty passenger vehicles that are the least fuel-efficient: large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. So far this year, large vehicles have remained as popular as ever in the United States, or even more so, though gasoline prices have been high and volatile. But what about the sales prospects for G.M. and Ford in countries that have different regulatory priorities?
 ''I just wonder whether it complicates matters for the U.S. companies, because fuel economy is not high on the agenda of the U.S. consumer,'' Mr. Austin said. ''Are these companies going to have successful strategies to compete in countries like China, where fuel prices are higher, and incomes are certainly lower and road space is considerably more limited?''
 Niki Rosinski, a financial analyst who collaborated on the report and worked at Sustainable Asset Management until leaving recently to join Mr. Austin at his new firm, pointed to what he called the ''carbon intensity'' of Ford's profits, meaning the company's reliance on vehicles that consume the most fuel and emit the most gases linked to climate change. 
 ''Sixty percent of Ford's sales globally come from the North American market, and in the North American market, 60 percent of their sales come from light trucks, which are around 80 percent of profits of their North American operations,'' Mr. Rosinski said. ''This is a huge risk if -- on the grounds of energy security, not just climate change -- the government decides that they will bring in stronger fuel-economy standards.''
 The institute's report projects that because of new regulations, Ford's profits will be 10 percent lower than would otherwise be expected from now to 2015, and that G.M.'s profits will be 7 percent lower. 
 ''The reason our carbon intensity is the highest is our vehicle mix, because we have leadership in large trucks and S.U.V.'s,'' said Carolyn Brown, a spokeswoman for Ford. ''But we are trying to put out more environmentally friendly vehicles.''
 Ford is poised to start selling a hybrid version of its Escape S.U.V., thus joining Toyota and Honda in offering a hybrid that can get fuel savings on the order of 40 percent or more. Ford has even licensed a small number of Toyota patents. In the Toyota and Ford hybrids, an electric motor takes over from the gas engine at slow speeds and when the vehicle is stopped.
 General Motors will not have a comparable hybrid on the road until 2007, though it is offering a milder version of hybrid technology in its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks. 
 G.M. and Ford have lagged behind Toyota and Honda in part because the American makers' research and development budgets have been crimped by high overhead costs, like health insurance premiums, which are a much smaller issue in countries like Japan. 
 Joanne Krell, a spokeswoman for G.M., said the company ''takes some issue'' with the findings of the report and had not been consulted by the groups that put it together; Ford, Ms. Brown said, has had continuing conversations with the groups.
 Ms. Brown said in a statement that Ford did not dispute the importance of these issues to its future. ''Starting early and regularly monitoring our progress on the issue of climate change,'' she said, ''is critical to our long-term corporate viability and financial success.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rush hour on a Los Angeles freeway. Fuel efficiency isn't foremost in the minds of American car buyers, but global-warming rules may force American carmakers to give it their attention. (Photo by J.Emilio Flores for The New York Times)Chart: ''The Cost to Comply''As new regulations take effect around the world to reduce emissions and fuel consumption of cars, automakers' costs for meeting the standards are projected to vary greatly.Estimated cost per vehicle and effect on earnings over all to meet emissions and fuel economy regulations in the United States, the European Union and Japan by 2015, based on projections of the most likely regulatory outcomes.BMWCOST: EFFECT$649 ON EARNINGS: -3%Daimler-ChryslerCOST: EFFECT$459 ON EARNINGS: +1%Ford MotorCOST: EFFECT$403 ON EARNINGS: -10%General MotorsCOST: EFFECT$377 ON EARNINGS: -7%VolkswagenCOST: EFFECT$195 ON EARNINGS: -1%NissanCOST: EFFECT$172 ON EARNINGS: +3%ToyotaCOST: EFFECT$170 ON EARNINGS: +8%Peugeot CitroenCOST: EFFECT$82 ON EARNINGS: -2%RenaultCOST: EFFECT$79 ON EARNINGS: +4%HondaCOST: EFFECT$24 ON EARNINGS: +3%(Sources by World Resources Institute
 Sustainable Asset Management)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%) Automobiles; Weather ; Global Warming; Fuel Efficiency; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; World Resources Institute; Sustainable Asset Management

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



539 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Scion tC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Who's Your Daddy? Staid Toyota Gets a Hip Implant

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI

 BODY:
SCION is the wild child of the reserved, respectable Toyota family -- the tattooed, body-pierced, trend-setting offspring with a homework assignment: bring some fresh faces into the showrooms. On sale in California since June of last year, Scions became available only this summer in the rest of the country.
 So far, the best-known Scion (pronounced SIGH-un) has been the quirky xB, generally known as ''the boxy one.'' Its Legoland looks are polarizing, yet love it or hate it, the xB gets noticed. Much to Toyota's surprise, the xB is outselling the more mainstream xA hatchback by 2 to 1.
 The nationwide rollout of the Scion brand coincides with the introduction of a third car, the 2005 tC hatchback coupe. Like the other Scions, this $16,465 model plays in the shallow end of the new-car pricing pool; the xA is $13,795 and the xB is $14,195. 
 In a recent interview, Jim Farley, vice president of Scion, said California had served as a first-year ''laboratory'' for the brand. Data from AutoPacific, an automotive research company, indicates that the experiment paid off: 76 percent of Scion buyers were first-time Toyota customers. 
 Though they are hardly expensive, Scions are not being marketed as economy cars -- commercials place them in urban settings with a thumping hip-hop backbeat. Mr. Farley said Scion's marketing tactics were neither confrontational nor traditional; instead, buyers can ''discover Scion'' by themselves, at their own pace. 
 Scion has the youngest customers of any car company, with an average age of 38. Drivers tend to be younger still, since many parents buy the cars for children. Strong sales among minorities have validated Scion's urban-theme campaign. 
 Creating a youth-oriented line of cars is a daunting task. Several companies, including Toyota itself, have tried to seduce Generation Y only to be rebuffed like a lounge lizard prowling a college bar. Honda thought it had the youth market covered with its Element -- a sort of Swiss Army knife on wheels -- but while that boxy car has sold fairly well, it has often gone to boomers who need versatile trucklets to haul petunias and power tools. 
 Indeed, Honda -- which inadvertently created the import car-tuning scene with its inexpensive, durable and easy-to-customize Civic -- has begun to lose its appeal with young customizers. So the company plans to introduce a car priced below the Civic, perhaps a variation on its Fit ''city car,'' which has been a big hit in Japan.
 Toyota's first attempt to woo youngsters, the Genesis Project, included three vehicles: the dowdy Echo subcompact; the edgy Celica sporty coupe (whose time in the spotlight lasted about as long as William Hung's singing career) and the MR2 Spyder, a roadster that was pricey and, lacking a trunk, impractical. Toyota recently said it was discontinuing the Celica and MR2.
 But executives insist that they did their homework with Scion. Jim Press, chief operating officer of Toyota Motor Sales USA, sees Scion as a bridge to new customers.
 ''We realize that the success of our company is that we grew up with baby boomers,'' he said. ''A successful company has to reinvent itself and remain relevant to newer generations.'' Mr. Press stressed that Toyota wanted to avoid a perception of ''old people trying to make a young person's car.''
 Mr. Farley stressed the need for authenticity. ''If you're going to be a car company'' with youth appeal, he said, ''you'd better come out with cars that are refreshing and honest.''
 Two-thirds of Toyota dealerships have agreed to sell Scions, setting up special areas where potential buyers can relax, examine the vehicles and ''customize'' them on computers linked to Scion's Web site. 
 This ease of customization is vital to Scion's credibility with the sport-import car tuners who have had enormous influence on the auto industry (and on youthful trends) in recent years. Neon interior lighting, wake-the-dead stereo systems and stiffer shocks are among the dozens of optional add-ons. Buyers end up with one-of-a-kind cars, and dealers pocket some of the cash that might have gone to aftermarket suppliers.
 Yet owners are proving to be demanding, and they have not cut the xA or xB any slack. In the latest initial quality survey by J.D. Power & Associates, the upstart brand placed near the bottom of the rankings -- an unfamiliar place for Toyota. The company is looking for the tC, a more substantial car in many ways, to pacify these customers.
 ''The tC is to Scion what the original LS400 was to Lexus,'' Mr. Farley said. With its refinement and reasonable price, the LS rewrote the rules for luxury cars. Toyota hopes the tC will attract young buyers who aspire to sporty European cars.
 Over all, the styling is a cohesive design that looks solid and expensive. The fenders' strong lines and pronounced wheel openings suggest recent Audis. The headlamps and kink in the rear roof pillar are BMW-esque, and the hood's shape brings to mind either Volvo or Lexus's own IS300 sport sedan. 
 The tC that I tested was a classy dark blue with stylish alloy wheels. My hunch that the car's subtle good looks would go unnoticed was proved wrong the first time I parked in my Brooklyn neighborhood. A few tough-looking young men stopped their basketball game to say they thought the car was pretty cool. Mired in Holland Tunnel traffic the next day, a truck driver shouted across the din that the tC looked sharp.
 The interior is nicely thought out and well put together, though the expanses of black plastic won't fool you into thinking this is a Bentley. Yet the fit and finish are better than that of many cars costing twice as much.
 The nicely sculptured instrument panel has a cover that conceals the radio faceplate -- a nice touch for the larcenous city. Silver-face gauges are easy to read, and it's easy to get comfortable with the chunky steering wheel and well-placed pedals.
 Whoever designed the dead pedal -- a sort of left-side footrest -- deserves a raise. Perfectly placed, it is the best I have experienced. The damping of the controls and soft finishes on often-touched surfaces show that a great deal of attention went into getting the interior just right.
 My test car's entertaining touches included a shift knob shaped like a microphone, blue neon interior lighting and illuminated cup holders. My partner and I, both in our mid-20's, bought a bottle of water to watch it mysteriously glow. (No, we don't get out much.) And while the neon illumination borders on tacky, it proved convenient when we dropped toll money on the floor at night. 
 The standard twin sunroofs prompted one complaint. Although the glass panels give the cabin an airy feel, the blinds covering them are thin, and the material looks like the pull shades in a dorm room. 
 Other quibbles include an optional subwoofer that eats up a large amount of the trunk (though it improves the audio) and air-conditioning that barely kept up with the 90-degree heat during a weekend drive. 
 During this trip I discovered how roomy the tC can be. Things can get awfully cozy when four people travel in an economy coupe, but the tC had room to spare and cubbies to store the detritus of modern life.
 Loosely based on the front-drive Toyota Avensis sedan sold overseas, the tC's European breeding shines through. The car proved adept on highways and city streets. The steering is communicative, growing heavier at highway speeds. 
 Engine power is linear; the 160 horsepower was not overwhelming, but quite capable. The 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine even makes a nice little growl. (A hot supercharged version is also planned.)
 The precise shift action of the five-speed manual, and the clutch's smooth operation, might sway some Gen Y-ers to shift for themselves. (A four-speed automatic is optional.) The mileage rating with the manual is 22 m.p.g. in town and 29 on the highway.
 Down the road, Scion plans to keep its lineup fresh by replacing vehicles with entirely new models, rather than refining the same idea year after year. The biggest challenge will be maintaining the brand's underground appeal if 2005 sales reach Toyota's projection of 100,000 plus. 
 The xB and xA proved that Scion could think outside the box, even inside a box. The tC takes the idea a step further in refinement and style while adding more driving pleasure to the equation. Scion might be a wild child, but the tC proves that the brand is keeping up its grades.

INSIDE TRACK: Two's a pair, three's a posse.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 2005 Scion tC.
'04 Scion xA.
 '04 Scion xB.Chart: ''Sizing Up the Scion Lineup'' lists features and specifications for selected models of Scions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH MARKET (89%); GENERATION Y (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); PARENTS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%) Automobiles

COMPANY: FITT HIGHWAY PRODUCTS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: Nick Kurczewski

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



540 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Housing Bust: It Won't Be Pretty

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LET the stock market slide. Let the bond market sink. As long as home prices keep rocking, it's easy for Americans to feel fat and happy.
 But what happens when the run-up in housing prices loses steam, or worse? The implications are sobering, not only for homeowners but also for the economy as a whole. 
 With the growth rate for home prices starting to slow, now may be the time to ponder what a bear market in real estate may bring. A recent study by two economists at Goldman Sachs provides some answers. 
 For now, prices are still climbing over all. The average home price in the nation rose 7.71 percent in the 12 months ended in March. 
 But the first three months of this year showed far slower growth than previous periods. Prices rose only 0.96 percent, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which keeps an eye on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The last time housing prices grew by less than 1 percent in a quarter was in the spring of 1998.
 More ominous, six states showed declines in housing prices in the first quarter: Vermont, Alaska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa and Nebraska. No state had price declines in the previous quarter. 
 To be sure, home values are still hot in many spots. In the most recent 12 months, prices have jumped by more than 15 percent in Hawaii and Nevada, by 14 percent in California, 11 percent in New Jersey and 10 percent in New York. 
 In nominal terms, United States home prices are up 60 percent since 1995; in real terms, adjusted for inflation, they are up 37 percent. Viewed historically, home prices are up twice as much now as they were in the bullish real estate markets of both the mid-1970's and the 1980's. 
 As a percentage of disposable income, home prices are more than 18 percent above the long-term average. Prices exceeded that average by only 4 percent in the 1970's and 8.5 percent in the 1980's boom.
 Michael Buchanan, a senior global economist at Goldman Sachs, and Themistoklis Fiotakis, a research assistant there, reckon that at current interest rates, home prices are now overvalued by 10 percent, on average. Because this figure spans the entire nation, the hottest markets -- California and New York -- are obviously more overpriced.
 The economists compute fair value in home prices by using a variety of measures, including interest rates, population and demographic data, and the overall health of the economy. If interest rates increased by one percentage point, the economists said, home prices in the United States would be overvalued by 15 percent.
 None of this would be worrisome if homeowners had not turned the paper profits in their properties into cold, spendable cash. But withdrawals from home equities have recently totaled 6.3 percent of household disposable income, according to the Goldman study. In the late 1980's, equity withdrawals reached only 2.5 percent of disposable income. 
 Federal Reserve studies indicate that as much as half of the equity withdrawals went into personal consumption and home improvements. As a result, the Goldman economists estimate that equity cash-outs added 1.75 percent to the growth in the gross domestic product in 2003. That is a significant increase from the 1.25 percent kick that equity withdrawals added in 2002.
 Consumption would slip 1 percent, Goldman estimated, if housing prices fell by 10 percent, to the fair value level. But if prices decline to well below that, as often happens when overheated markets go cold, consumption may fall by 2.4 percent, Goldman reckoned. 
 Such a housing crash took place in Britain in the early 1990's. At the market's low, home prices had fallen by 27 percent, 5 percent below Goldman's estimate of fair value at the time.
 Such a decline is not expected here, said Dominic Wilson, a senior global economist at Goldman. That's because home prices in Britain had escalated much more than they have in this country, even now. And interest rates had soared into the high teens, which is unlikely here.
 But even small declines in home prices could hurt the economy. ''The precise degree of the vulnerability isn't going to be clear until we see house prices slow,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''You've never seen consumers this stretched, operating at levels of leverage we've never experienced before. House prices are starting at a level that is pretty high relative to what we think fair value is going to be, and the economy as a whole has gotten a lot more sensitive'' to housing-related spending.
 Indeed, Goldman estimates that home equity lines of credit and the like have magnified the effect of housing wealth on consumption over the past decade, taking it to 10 percent from 4 percent. 
 Although rising home prices have been stopped dead in the past by sharply higher interest rates, the Goldman economists note that bear markets don't necessarily need major triggers to get started. 
 Small events can change the market's psychology, and asset bubbles sometimes just cave in on themselves. 
 One risk that looms large, however, is that United States policy makers would have few tools to cushion the fall if a housing decline gained real momentum. Interest rates are already so low and fiscal policy so loose that little could be done to ease the pain. 
 ''This is one of a series of risks and imbalances that suggest there has been a price to the low-interest-rate policy that led the recession to be much shallower than it might otherwise have been,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Fiscal and monetary policy are both already fully utilized. If things go wrong from here, the U.S. finds itself in a more fragile position.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Overvalued''Graph tracks the average price of a house (FAIR VALUE, ACTUAL) in the United States since 1994.(Source by Goldman Sachs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (97%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%) Housing; United States Economy; Consumers and Consumption; Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



541 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Column 3; Boston 2004; THE LOOKING GLASS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Delegates Lean Left And Oppose the War

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
NINE out of 10 of the Democratic delegates gathering in Boston this week think the United States should not have gone to war in Iraq and say the gains from the war were not worth the loss of American lives, a New York Times/CBS News poll shows.
 The delegates are much less supportive of the war than the public is over all, than Democratic voters generally are, and than is reflected by the more nuanced positions of Senators John Kerry and John Edwards, whom they will nominate this week for president and vice president.
 Still, nearly 9 in 10 delegates described themselves as supporting Mr. Kerry enthusiastically, with the rest split about evenly between those who were supporting him with reservations or only because he is the likely party nominee. 
 The war, Iraq and terrorism are not seen by the delegates as the most important issues in their states, the poll shows. Only one in six cited them as most important. Half of the delegates, on the other hand, said the most important issues were the economy and jobs, and one-third of all voters agree.
 The delegates think of themselves -- and Mr. Kerry, for that matter -- as politically moderate.
 But on divisive social issues like abortion, the death penalty and gay marriage, the delegates are not only much more liberal than voters in general but substantially more liberal than typical Democratic voters. At every Democratic convention, the delegates hold more liberal positions than rank-and-file Democrats, just as Republican delegates are always more conservative than their voters. That is the nature of political activists. 
 On many issues, though, the Democratic delegates are more or less in harmony with the general public. On the environment, for instance, 62 percent of the delegates and 52 percent of all voters say the government must protect the environment even at the cost of lost jobs. And 67 percent of delegates and 69 percent of all voters maintain that ''trade restrictions are necessary to protect domestic industries.'' 
 The poll of 1,085 of the 4,322 Democratic delegates, selected at random, was conducted by telephone, fax and e-mail from June 16 to July 17. The national poll of 955 adults, including 823 registered voters, was conducted by telephone from July 11 to July 15. Both polls have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
 Even given the expected disparities between delegates and other Democrats, the delegates' position on the war seems especially wide. Only 7 percent say ''the United States did the right thing in taking military action against Iraq,'' while 86 percent say the United States should ''have stayed out.''
 By contrast, 21 percent of Democratic voters and 46 percent of all voters believe going to war was right, while 75 percent of Democratic voters and 51 percent of all voters say it was wrong.
 In an answer to a corollary question, only 3 percent of delegates, compared with 12 percent of Democratic voters and 36 percent of all voters, feel ''the result of the war with Iraq was worth the loss of American life and other costs of attacking Iraq.''
 Sally LaSota, 54, an Indiana delegate who is a county elections official, seemed to be speaking for many others in Boston. ''Our troops are dying for what?'' Ms. LaSota asked. ''For a new government? All of a sudden, we're running it.''
 She added, ''Is it for oil, as everybody seems to think it is?''
 The position on Iraq taken by Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards, and set forth in the party platform the delegates will adopt on Tuesday, is that President Bush acted rashly by going to war based on faulty intelligence with insufficient support from allies and an inadequate plan for occupation after the war. 
 But Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards voted to give the president the authority to use military force in Iraq, and unlike some other Democratic senators, they have refused to say they would have voted differently if they knew then what they know now.
 The delegates, half of whom are women, are older, wealthier and better educated than most Americans. Four in 10 have annual incomes over $100,000 and about half hold post-graduate degrees. 
 The delegates are less likely to describe themselves as evangelical and more likely to be Catholic or Jewish, although a plurality are Protestants. Only a third think presidential candidates should discuss the role of religion in their lives, compared with half of all voters who feel this way. But nearly 6 in 10 delegates, about the same as voters generally, say religion plays a very important role in their daily lives.
 Eighteen percent of the delegates are black and 12 percent are Hispanic, about the same proportion as all voters. But the delegates are somewhat more likely to be union members -- one-fourth, compared with 15 percent of Democratic voters and 13 percent of all voters.
 Aside from the war, the issues on which the delegates are most at odds with rank-and-file Democratic voters and with voters in general are the social, philosophical and economic issues that have divided the political parties for decades.
 For example, three-fourths of the delegates say abortion ''should be generally available to those who want it,'' and only 2 percent say it should never be permitted. But only a third of all voters believe it should be generally available, and one-fourth say it should not be permitted. The rest of the delegates and the voters take the position that abortion should be available ''under stricter limits than it is now.''
 Four-fifths of the delegates say ''the government should do more to solve national problems,'' compared with about half of Democratic voters and two-fifths of all voters. 
 Gavin Brown, 21, a Florida delegate, said the government should do more to lower the cost of prescription drugs. Mike Marsico, 41, a Pennsylvania delegate, said the government should provide more money ''for infrastructure and education'' and do more to fight discrimination.
 Only 4 percent of the delegates say cutting taxes is a better way to improve the economy than reducing the deficit. About one-fifth of Democratic voters and a third of all voters feel this way.
 On an issue that is part of the presidential campaign for the first time this year -- gay marriage and civil unions -- 44 percent of the delegates favor marriage and 43 percent favor unions. Only 5 percent say that ''there should be no legal recognition of a gay couple's relationship.''
 Tina McKinnor, 39, an auditor from California, said this was ''the hardest thing I've had to struggle with'' as a delegate, and she came down on the side of civil unions.
 ''Through my Christianity, I define marriage as between a man and a woman,'' she said. ''But I think these people should have the same rights for retirement benefits and medical benefits with their partner.''
 By contrast, one-third of Democratic voters and two-fifths of all voters would permit no recognition.
 A large majority of the delegates say it is a good idea to hold the convention in Boston. But about one-fourth say they fear a terrorist attack while they are there.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Red Grooms)Chart: ''How Democratic Delegates Compare''A comparison of delegates to the 2004 Democratic National Convention with Democratic voters and all registered voters.GOVERNMENT -- Government should......do more to promote traditional values.DEM. DELEGATES -- 15%DEM. VOTERS -- 26ALL VOTERS -- 40...not favor one set of values over another.DEM. DELEGATES -- 78DEM. VOTERS -- 71ALL VOTERS -- 57THE ECONOMY -- The budget deficit is a very serious problem for the country right now.DEM. DELEGATES -- 86DEM. VOTERS -- 68ALL VOTERS -- 51Which is a better way to improve the national economy?Cutting taxesDEM. DELEGATES -- 4DEM. VOTERS -- 18ALL VOTERS -- 34Reducing deficitDEM. DELEGATES -- 87DEM. VOTERS -- 72ALL VOTERS -- 58Which comes closest to your view about the tax cuts passed by Congress since 2000?All or most cuts should be made permanent.DEM. DELEGATES -- 7DEM. VOTERS -- 33ALL VOTERS -- 49All or most cuts should be repealed or allowed to expire.DEM. DELEGATES -- 89DEM. VOTERS -- 59ALL VOTERS -- 43IMMIGRATION -- Legal immigration should be......kept at its present level.DEM. DELEGATES -- 51DEM. VOTERS -- 32ALL VOTERS -- 33...increased.DEM. DELEGATES -- 23DEM. VOTERS -- 16ALL VOTERS -- 13...decreased.DEM. DELEGATES -- 14DEM. VOTERS -- 48ALL VOTERS -- 49ABORTION -- Abortion should ......be generally available to those who want it.DEM. DELEGATES -- 75DEM. VOTERS -- 49ALL VOTERS -- 34...be available but under stricter limits than it is now.DEM. DELEGATES -- 17DEM. VOTERS -- 36ALL VOTERS -- 40...not be permitted.DEM. DELEGATES -- 2DEM. VOTERS -- 13ALL VOTERS -- 24GAY MARRIAGE -- Gay couples should be allowed to ......legally marry.DEM. DELEGATES -- 44DEM. VOTERS -- 36ALL VOTERS -- 26...form civil unions but not legally marry.DEM. DELEGATES -- 43DEM. VOTERS -- 28ALL VOTERS -- 33There should be no legal recognition of a gay couples relationship.DEM. DELEGATES -- 5DEM. VOTERS -- 33ALL VOTERS -- 39TERRORISM -- Which concerns you more? That the government......is failing to enact strong anti-terrorism laws.DEM. DELEGATES -- 13DEM. VOTERS -- 35ALL VOTERS -- 44...is enacting anti-terrorism laws which excessively restrict civil liberties.DEM. DELEGATES -- 77DEM. VOTERS -- 53ALL VOTERS -- 43RELIGION -- Presidential candidates ......should discuss the role of religion in their lives.DEM. DELEGATES -- 33DEM. VOTERS -- 32ALL VOTERS -- 48...should not make this part of a presidential campaign.DEM. DELEGATES -- 62DEM. VOTERS -- 65ALL VOTERS -- 50INTERNATIONAL POLICY -- The United States should ......try to change a dictatorship to a democracy where it can.DEM. DELEGATES -- 16DEM. VOTERS -- 15ALL VOTERS -- 25...stay out of other countries affairs.DEM. DELEGATES -- 56DEM. VOTERS -- 76ALL VOTERS -- 60IRAQ -- The result of the war with Iraq ......was worth the loss of American life and other costs.DEM. DELEGATES -- 3DEM. VOTERS -- 12ALL VOTERS -- 36...was not worth the loss of life and other costs.DEM. DELEGATES -- 93DEM. VOTERS -- 85ALL VOTERS -- 59DEATH PENALTY -- The penalty for murder should be ......the death penalty.DEM. DELEGATES -- 19DEM. VOTERS -- 39ALL VOTERS -- 50...life in prison without any chance of parole.DEM. DELEGATES -- 66DEM. VOTERS -- 48ALL VOTERS -- 39ENVIRONMENT -- We must protect the environment even if it means jobs are lost because of it.DEM. DELEGATES -- 62DEM. VOTERS -- 62ALL VOTERS -- 52TRADE -- Trade restrictions are necessary to protect domestic industries.DEM. DELEGATES -- 67DEM. VOTERS -- 68ALL VOTERS -- 69Free trade must be allowed, even if domestic industries are hurt by foreign competition.DEM. DELEGATES -- 23DEM. VOTERS -- 26ALL VOTERS -- 27THE ELECTION -- Have a lot of confidence that the votes will be counted properly in November.DEM. DELEGATES -- 63DEM. VOTERS -- 62ALL VOTERS -- 67George Bush legitimately won the 2000 election.DEM. DELEGATES -- 7DEM. VOTERS -- 18ALL VOTERS -- 51DisagreeDEM. DELEGATES -- 91DEM. VOTERS -- 78ALL VOTERS -- 45DEMOGRAPHICSMaleDEM. DELEGATES -- 50DEM. VOTERS -- 43ALL VOTERS -- 49FemaleDEM. DELEGATES -- 50DEM. VOTERS -- 57ALL VOTERS -- 51Very or somewhat liberalDEM. DELEGATES -- 41DEM. VOTERS -- 33ALL VOTERS -- 20ModerateDEM. DELEGATES -- 52DEM. VOTERS -- 45ALL VOTERS -- 42Very or somewhat conservativeDEM. DELEGATES -- 3DEM. VOTERS -- 19ALL VOTERS -- 35WhiteDEM. DELEGATES -- 68DEM. VOTERS -- 61ALL VOTERS -- 78BlackDEM. DELEGATES -- 18DEM. VOTERS -- 28ALL VOTERS -- 14Asian-AmericanDEM. DELEGATES -- 3DEM. VOTERS -- 2ALL VOTERS -- 2Hispanic (may be of any race)DEM. DELEGATES -- 12DEM. VOTERS -- 15ALL VOTERS -- 11High school graduate or lessDEM. DELEGATES -- 5DEM. VOTERS -- 44ALL VOTERS -- 37Some college or college graduateDEM. DELEGATES -- 42DEM. VOTERS -- 42ALL VOTERS -- 51PostgraduateDEM. DELEGATES -- 53DEM. VOTERS -- 13ALL VOTERS -- 11Income under $50,000DEM. DELEGATES -- 15DEM. VOTERS -- 57ALL VOTERS -- 45$50,000-$75,000DEM. DELEGATES -- 21DEM. VOTERS -- 19ALL VOTERS -- 21Over $75,000DEM. DELEGATES -- 61DEM. VOTERS -- 22ALL VOTERS -- 2918-29 years oldDEM. DELEGATES -- 7DEM. VOTERS -- 14ALL VOTERS -- 1930-39DEM. DELEGATES -- 11DEM. VOTERS -- 16ALL VOTERS -- 1840-49DEM. DELEGATES -- 22DEM. VOTERS -- 19ALL VOTERS -- 2050-59DEM. DELEGATES -- 33DEM. VOTERS -- 19ALL VOTERS -- 1860-69DEM. DELEGATES -- 19DEM. VOTERS -- 15ALL VOTERS -- 1270 or olderDEM. DELEGATES -- 7DEM. VOTERS -- 16ALL VOTERS -- 13Those with no opinion are not shown. Figures are based on New York Times/CBS News Polls of 1,085 delegates conducted June 16-July 17 and of 823 registered voters conducted July 11-15. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TERRORISM (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (66%); ABORTION (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); MARRIAGE (51%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Public Opinion; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times/cbs News Poll

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David E Rosenbaum; Janet Elder; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



542 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8014 words

HEADLINE: Wiring the Vast Left-Wing Conspiracy

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer, is covering the presidential campaign for the magazine.

 BODY:
Andy Rappaport made his millions as a venture capitalist,searching out what he calls ''ideas that change the world.'' About six years ago, for instance, when most everyone else in the high-tech industry thought wireless communication was going to depend on new, exotic semiconductors, Rappaport threw $2.5 million into a start-up called Atheros Communications, whose founders were focusing instead on building low-cost radios using common chip technology. It was a smart move. When the company went public last February, the initial investment by Rappaport and his partners was worth more than $60 million. 
 Rappaport is also, increasingly, an avid investor in liberal causes, and in this context he might be called a political venture capitalist. Rappaport and his wife, Deborah, whose philanthropic activities in recent years include several million dollars in donations to art museums and after-school music programs, have committed at least $5 million this year -- so far -- to support a bevy of fledgling liberal groups, like Music for America and Punkvoter.com, aimed at mobilizing younger voters. 
 I met Rappaport, who is 46, in early June in his firm's offices on Sand Hill Road, Silicon Valley's answer to Wall Street. As we talked in a plush conference room flanked by a sunlit terrace on one side and a pool table on the other, events in the world outside seemed to be tilting strongly in the Democrats' favor. Public support for President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq was dropping precipitously. The price of oil had shot up to $42 a barrel. Only hours earlier, voters in South Dakota sent a Democratic woman, Stephanie Herseth, to the U.S. House in a special election -- a race widely viewed as a potential harbinger for November.
 But if all of this made John Kerry a good bet to become the next president, it did nothing, in Rappaport's view, to solve the Democrats' underlying problems. When I asked if he was skeptical about the direction of the party, he smiled, then said dryly, ''If you've been able to discern a direction on which to be skeptical or optimistic, then you're doing pretty well.''
 In fact, Rappaport was surprisingly downcast about the party's prospects, which, he said, would not be improved simply by winning back the White House. Though he sat and thought about it, he said he was unable to name a single Democratic leader in the years since Bill Clinton left Washington who he thought was articulating a compelling new direction for the party. ''There is a growing realization among people who take very seriously the importance of progressive politics that the Democratic Party has kind of failed to create a vision for the country that is strongly resonant,'' he said. ''And our numbers'' -- meaning Democrats as a whole -- ''are decreasing. Our political power has been diminishing, and it's become common knowledge that the conservative movement has established a very strong, long-term foundation, whereas we've basically allowed our foundation, if not to crumble, to at least fall into a state of disrepair. So there are a lot of people thinking, What can we do about this?''
 Actually, Rappaport says he may be on to an answer. Last summer, he got a call from Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat Network, a fund-raising and advocacy group in Washington. Would Rappaport mind sitting down for a confidential meeting with a veteran Democratic operative named Rob Stein? Sure, Rappaport replied. What Stein showed him when they met was a PowerPoint presentation that laid out step by step, in a series of diagrams a ninth-grader could understand, how conservatives, over a period of 30 years, had managed to build a ''message machine'' that today spends more than $300 million annually to promote its agenda. 
 Rappaport was blown away by the half-hour-long presentation. ''Man,'' he said, ''that's all it took to buy the country?''
 Stein and Rosenberg weren't asking Rappaport for money -- at least not yet. They wanted Democrats to know what they were up against, and they wanted them to stop thinking about politics only as a succession of elections. If Democrats were going to survive, Stein and Rosenberg explained, men like Rappaport were going to have to start making long-term investments in their political ideas, just as they did in their business ventures. The era of the all-powerful party was coming to an end, and political innovation, like technological innovation, would come from private-sector pioneers who were willing to take risks. 
 For Rappaport -- who, like other Democratic donors, had grown increasingly doubtful that his donations to the party were being well spent -- Stein's pitch came as something of a revelation. This was a new way to look at progressive politics (politicians who 10 years ago called themselves liberals now prefer the less-demonized label ''progressive''), and it was an approach he understood as well as anyone. 
 In March of this year, Rappaport convened a meeting of wealthy Democrats at a Silicon Valley hotel so that they, too, could see Stein's presentation. Similar gatherings were already under way in Washington and New York, where the meetings included two of the most generous billionaires in the Democratic universe -- the financier George Soros and Peter Lewis, an Ohio insurance tycoon -- as well as Soros's son and Lewis's son. On the East Coast, the participants had begun referring to themselves as the Phoenix Group, as in rising from the ashes; Rappaport called his gathering the Band of Progressives. More recently, companion groups have come together in Boston and Los Angeles.
 What makes these meetings remarkable is that while everyone attending them wants John Kerry to win in November, they are focused well beyond the 2004 election. The plan is to gather investors from each city -- perhaps in one big meeting early next year -- and create a kind of venture-capital pipeline that would funnel money into a new political movement, working independently of the existing Democratic establishment. The dollar figure for investment being tossed around in private conversations is $100 million.
 ''You're talking about raising a lot of money,'' I said doubtfully.
 Rappaport tilted his head to one side. He looked as if he felt sorry for me.
 ''A hundred million dollars,'' he said, ''is nothing.''
 As Democrats converge on Boston this week to hold their party convention and formally anoint Kerry as their nominee, all the talk will be of resurgence, unity and a new sense of purpose. Don't be fooled. It's true that a kind of all-consuming, blue-state animosity toward George W. Bush -- not just for the war and the tax cuts, but also for what Democrats see as his venality and secrecy, his contempt for all things coastal, the way he walks and the way he laughs, the fact that he was ever sworn in as president to begin with -- has, remarkably, brought a sense of coherence to a party that had been groping for a mission. Nearing the end of his first term, Bush has at last delivered on his promise to be ''a uniter, not a divider,'' except that the people he has united will be crammed, standing room only, into Boston's FleetCenter for the next four days, rhetorically -- if not literally -- burning him in effigy.
 But whether the Democrats win or lose in November, what will happen -- to put a twist on the old Engelbert Humperdinck song -- after the hating? Four years from now, in 2008, these same Democrats will come together again, in Miami or Phoenix or Las Vegas, perhaps to renominate President Kerry or perhaps to give the stage to Hillary Rodham Clinton or John Edwards or to some now-obscure governor. Either way, Bush will be receding into history, and the party's left and center factions will again be wrestling over free trade, social programs and tax cuts for the middle class. The questions that will loom over the Democratic Party will be the same ones that have resurfaced regularly since the end of the Great Society: what, beyond a series of disconnected policy proposals, is the party's reason for being? What does it stand for in the era after big government? 
 Andy Rappaport isn't the only one asking these questions. The party's decline is a constant source of gallows humor among Democrats in Washington. It is true that in terms of voter identification, the country remains more or less evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans, and in fact, the best data show that Democrats still enjoy a slight advantage among the ever-shrinking pool of voters who do identify themselves with one party or another. But the historical arc of the parties tells a different story. Since the 1950's, when nearly half of all voters called themselves Democrats, nearly one in six Democrats has left the party, according to a University of Michigan study, while Republican membership has held close to steady.
 Reflected in this trend -- although it is by no means the entirety of the problem -- is that the Democratic Party has seen an exodus of the white working-class men who were once their most reliable voters. In the suburbs, according to the Democratic pollster Mark Penn, the percentage of white men supporting the party has plummeted 16 points just since Bill Clinton left office. 
 When measured in terms of electoral success, the growing imbalance between the parties is quantifiable. From the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932 until the Republican takeover of 1994, Democrats never lost control of the House of Representatives for more than one election before regaining it, and that only happened twice. They have now failed to control the House in five straight elections. Similarly, for 46 of those years, Democrats ruled the Senate by a margin of at least 10 seats. In contrast, they have spent most of the last decade in the minority, and during that time they have never enjoyed a majority of more than a single vote. More sobering for Democrats, the realignment that began in the 1960's -- when the battles over civil rights and Vietnam began to drive white men and rural voters away from the party -- has finally begun to erode the party at its very foundation: the state and local level, where it was dominant for decades. Thirty years ago, Democrats could claim outright control of 37 state legislatures, compared with only 4 for Republicans; Democrats now control just 17. 
 ''The deterioration is steady, and it's spreading like a cancer,'' says Patrick Caddell, the onetime strategist for Jimmy Carter and Gary Hart, who has been compiling this data from statistical abstracts. ''So much for thinking that if we could just go back to the glorious 90's, the party would be fine. The 90's were our worst decade since the 1920's.''
 Privately, and sometimes publicly, leading Democrats will admit that the party's shrinking influence has its roots in the most basic problem of ''message.'' Despite having ruled Capitol Hill for a half-century, during which time they successfully enacted a staggering array of innovative programs, Democrats have been maddeningly slow to adapt their message to the postindustrial age. ''The truth is that a lot of the people who ran the Democratic Party in the 70's and 80's ran it into the ground,'' Simon Rosenberg said. ''The imperial Congress was in charge of America for 50 years, but we lost our way, and we've got to fight back.''
 In his 1992 campaign, Clinton vowed to drag the party into the new economy, bringing it toward the center on social and economic issues that mattered to an anxious middle class. Parts of that agenda, like a middle-class tax credit and welfare reform, met with success. But weakened by the Republican takeover of Congress and then his impeachment, Clinton's lasting legacy to the party seems to have amounted to something far less than an ideological modernization; somewhere along the line, Clintonism devolved into a series of rhetorical gimmicks -- ''fighting for working families,'' ''working hard and playing by the rules'' -- aimed at appeasing conservatives and winning over pet constituencies like ''soccer moms'' and ''office park dads.'' Underneath all the now-tired mantras, there remains a vacuum at the core of the party, an absence of any transformative worldview for the century unfurling before us.
 Into this vacuum rushes money -- and already it is creating an entirely new kind of independent force in American politics. Led by Soros and Lewis, Democratic donors will, by November, have contributed as much as $150 million to a handful of outside groups -- America Coming Together, the Media Fund, MoveOn.org -- that are going online, door to door and on the airways in an effort to defeat Bush. These groups aren't loyal to any one candidate, and they don't plan to disband after the election; instead, they expect to yield immense influence over the party's future, at the very moment when the power of some traditional Democratic interest groups, like the once mighty manufacturing unions, is clearly on the wane. Meanwhile, Rappaport and the other next-generation liberals are gathering on both coasts, having found one another through a network of clandestine connections that has the distinct feel of a burgeoning left-wing conspiracy. They have come to view progressive politics as a market in need of entrepreneurship, served poorly by a giant monopoly -- the Democratic Party -- that is still doing business in an old, Rust Belt kind of way. To these younger backers, investing in politics is far cheaper than playing in the marketplace, and the return is more important than mere profit: ultimately, they say, it is the power to take back the country's agenda from conservative ideologues.
 Spurred on by legal reforms that were in fact supposed to reduce the torrent of private money into politics, the new political venture capitalists see themselves as true progressives, unbound by any arcane party structure. If their investment ends up revitalizing the Democratic Party, so be it. If they end up competing with the party to control its agenda, or even pushing the party toward obsolescence -- well, that's fine, too. 
 As the old union bosses and factional leaders who dominated the Democratic Party in the 20th century file into the FleetCenter this week, waving signs and hooting for their heroes, be sure to take a long, last look. The Democratic Party of the machine age, so long dominant in American politics, could be holding its own Irish wake near Boston's North End. The power is already shifting -- not just within the party, but away from it altogether. 
 By the time this election year ends, George Soros will have contributed more than $13 million to the independent political groups known as 527's. (The term is shorthand for the section of the tax code that makes them legal.) For this reason, Republicans insist that the 74-year-old Soros, who may become the largest single political contributor in history, has resolved to buy the Democratic Party.
 This is, on its face, a little silly. To put things in perspective, $13 million is a fraction of what it takes to run a serious modern presidential campaign, let alone control a party. And Soros, who made his fortune as an international investor, is worth an estimated $7 billion; his foundation alone gives away some $450 million every year. In other words, if George Soros really felt like buying the party, you would know it. For Soros, spending $13 million on a campaign is like you or me buying 100 boxes of Thin Mints from the Girl Scout next door.
 The real significance of Soros's involvement in politics has little to do with the dollar amount of his contributions. What will stand out as important, when we look back decades from now at the 2004 campaign, will be the political model he created for everyone else. Until this year, Democratic contributors operated on the party-machine model: they were trained to write checks only to the party and its candidates, who decided how to spend the money. But by helping to establish a series of separate organizations and by publicly announcing that he was on a personal mission to unseat Bush, Soros signaled to other wealthy liberals that the days of deferring to the party were over. He became what the financial world would call the angel investor for an entirely new kind of progressive venture.
 To understand why Soros matters, you have to slog, however briefly, through the mind-bending swamp of the nation's campaign finance laws. Democrats in the 90's became obsessed with erasing the Republican advantage in fund-raising, so much so that it was fair to wonder which party wasn't representing the rich and privileged. Under Clinton, who became the most powerful money magnet the Oval Office had ever seen, the Democratic Party and its various committees began sucking up mountainous contributions from what are known in politics as access donors -- corporations, Wall Street firms and trade associations whose leaders had an interest in certain legislation or who coveted a ride on Air Force One. Unlike the ''hard money'' checks that an individual might write to a candidate, these corporate contributions to the party were ''soft money,'' meaning they had no legal limits; it was as if both parties were drawing cash from an endless equity line, with power as its only collateral. During the 2000 presidential election cycle, lawyers and law firms gave more than $33 million to the Democratic Party, while securities and investment firms anted up more than $25 million, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. 
 For ideological donors like Soros, whose goal was to effect changes in Democratic policy, these were not the best of times. You could give millions of dollars in soft money to the Democratic Party, if you were so inclined, but a lot of ideological donors were not. (Soros gave $100,000 to the party in the 2000 cycle.) Donors had no control over how the money was spent -- badly, a lot of them suspected -- and because the party was getting so much money from large industries, the influence that might have been gained through such a contribution was instantly diluted. In other words, a $5 million check might buy you an invitation to a state dinner, but it wasn't going to make anyone at the Democratic National Committee listen seriously to your idea for a national health care plan. 
 A lot of ideological donors continued to give money to independent interest groups like Emily's List, Naral Pro-Choice America and the Sierra Club. These issue-based groups, however, were notoriously balkanized and territorial. Your dollars might be useful in organizing pro-choice voters or in preserving Pacific woodlands, but there was no way to contribute money that would have an impact on the overarching framework of Democratic ideology. 
 Then came the campaign finance law passed in 2002, known informally as McCain-Feingold (after its iconoclastic Senate sponsors, John McCain, a Republican, and Russell Feingold, a Democrat), which prohibited the parties from accepting soft money. Overnight, the era of the access donor essentially ended. Individual lawyers and executives could still wield influence by bundling small personal contributions from employees or colleagues, but their firms could no longer write the giant checks that let them rent out the party as if it were a billboard or a blimp. 
 For the ideological donors, however, the new era seemed quite promising. McCain-Feingold left untouched and unregulated a vehicle that had been little used on the national level up to that point: the 527. And last fall and winter, the surprising success of Howard Dean's campaign convinced a lot of wealthy liberals that a new ideological movement could be nurtured outside the constraints of the Democratic Party. By controlling 527's, donors believed, they could determine, to a greater extent than ever before, the message and the strategy of a Democratic presidential campaign. ''This is like post-Yugoslavia,'' Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, told me. ''We used to have a strongman called the party. After McCain-Feingold, we dissolved the power of Tito.''
 Having financed projects in the former Communist bloc, Soros understood the opportunitites that political tumult can create. He and the more reclusive Peter Lewis began by contributing about $10 million each to America Coming Together (ACT), the largest of the new 527's, which was designed to do street-level organizing for the election; the donations enabled ACT to expand its canvassing campaign from five critical swing states to 17. ''I used 527's because they were there to be used,'' Soros said bluntly during a conversation in his Manhattan office. 
 Soros's and Lewis's donations made it possible for longtime leaders of Democratic interest groups to do something they had never done in the modern era: work together. Now the insular factions have begun to form alliances. The founders of ACT included Ellen Malcolm and Carl Pope, the heads of Emily's List and the Sierra Club respectively, Andy Stern from the service employees' union and Steve Rosenthal, the former political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Suddenly, because they no longer had to compete with one another for contributions -- and because they had such a galvanizing villain in Bush -- the leaders of the party's most powerful adjunct groups were able to look beyond the more limited interests of their own membership. 
 Strangely, for someone who is supposedly staging a hostile takeover of an entire party, Soros said he is only nominally a Democrat, and he evidenced an obvious distaste for the business of politics. ''I hate this kind of political advertising,'' he said at one point, complaining about the anti-Bush attack ads he had paid for. ''I always hated it, but now that I've sort of been involved in it, I hate it more.'' Soros said his only goal is to get rid of Bush, whom he believes is endangering American democracy. After that, he said, he didn't expect to continue meddling in politics at all, and in fact, he seemed eager to be rid of it. 
 And yet, even if they walk away after 2004, both Soros and Lewis have begun to expand on what they started -- by handing off their political portfolios to the next generation. Both Jonathan Soros, a 33-year-old Harvard-trained lawyer, and Jonathan Lewis, a 45-year-old restaurateur, have become deeply involved in monitoring their fathers' political investments day to day. They have also traveled extensively throughout the country, asking their contacts in different circles -- business types for Soros, while Lewis hits up the Hollywood crowd -- for million-dollar checks. 
 Both sons, and particularly the younger Soros, are also looking to play a deeper role in the future of Democratic politics. Last January, at the invitation of Alan Patricof, a New York venture capitalist who has been one of the Democratic Party's most reliable fund-raisers over the years, both Jonathans attended a hastily planned meeting of wealthy Democrats at Patricof's Park Avenue office. George Soros and Peter Lewis were there, too, along with some 45 other Democratic donors. No one at the meeting quite knew why Patricof had summoned them. Then he introduced them to Rob Stein and his PowerPoint slides.
 My first meeting with Rob Stein occurred over breakfast at the Four Seasons hotel in Washington. Our conversation was strictly off the record, a sort of get-to-know-you chat. Our second meeting took place on a sun-bathed balcony outside a Starbucks near his home in northwest Washington. Stein, who is a young-looking 60, has a full head of gray curls and an air of serenity about him. He is a native West Virginian, although his accent, oddly, makes him sound like a Yankees fan. He carried with him a metal loose-leaf binder, which he laid on the table and kept always within his reach. In a short while, Stein said, I would become only the third person in Washington to possess my own copy of his presentation.
 By the time we met, in the middle of May, Stein estimated that some 700 people had seen his PowerPoint show. He told me his story and explained how he had ended up at the center of a minimovement. He had been a Democratic operative, rising to become chief of staff at the Commerce Department under the late Ron Brown. Then he managed a venture capital firm. After 2000, he, like a lot of Democrats, watched with growing alarm as his party ceded ground at every level of government. ''I literally woke up the day after the 2002 elections, picked up the paper, had breakfast and we were living in a one-party country,'' he said. ''And there it was. That was my wake-up call.
 ''I said: 'O.K., there's now Republican dominance down the line. It's not only that they control the House and the Senate and the presidency. But it's growing. There's no end in sight.' It wasn't only that they had reached a milestone, but they were ascendant.''
 Stein read a few reports that liberal research groups had published on the rise of the conservative movement. Then he began poring over tax forms from various conservative nonprofits and aggregating the data about fund-raising and expenditures. He spent hours online every night, between about 9 p.m. and 1 in the morning, reading sites like MediaTransparency.org, which is devoted to tracing the roots of conservative groups and their effect on the media. To call this an obsession somehow seems too mundane; Stein spent much of the spring of 2003 consumed with connecting the dots of what Hillary Clinton famously called the ''vast right-wing conspiracy'' and then translating it into flow charts and bullet points. 
 The presentation itself, a collection of about 40 slides titled ''The Conservative Message Machine's Money Matrix,'' essentially makes the case that a handful of families -- Scaife, Bradley, Olin, Coors and others -- laid the foundation for a $300 million network of policy centers, advocacy groups and media outlets that now wield great influence over the national agenda. The network, as Stein diagrams it, includes scores of powerful organizations -- most of them with bland names like the State Policy Network and the Leadership Institute -- that he says train young leaders and lawmakers and promote policy ideas on the national and local level. These groups are, in turn, linked to a massive message apparatus, into which Stein lumps everything from Fox News and the Wall Street Journal op-ed page to Pat Robertson's ''700 Club.'' And all of this, he contends, is underwritten by some 200 ''anchor donors.'' ''This is perhaps the most potent, independent institutionalized apparatus ever assembled in a democracy to promote one belief system,'' he said.
 ''What you need to understand about me is that I try to be respectful and objective about this,'' Stein went on. ''Not only is it a legitimate exercise in democracy, but I think they came up with some extraordinary ideas.'' The problem, he said, was that conservatives had moved beyond those policy ideas, into the realm of attack and innuendo. And Democrats had to understand that they were overmatched.
 Nothing in Stein's presentation seemed notably new, even if the details were nicely laid out. I had seen David Brock, the one-time conservative smear specialist who wrote a book about his defection to the other side, draw similar diagrams of the conservative power structure on a piece of paper. John Podesta, the former White House chief of staff, echoed many of the same ideas when he founded the Center for American Progress last year; they were, in fact, the basis for that new liberal policy group. What made Stein's work compelling was the genius of its packaging. For some reason, perhaps because most political operatives don't function in the business world, no one had ever thought to unearth all the evidence and put it on color-coded slides in a way that ordinary people could immediately grasp.
 ''I describe myself as having a master's degree in the right-wing conspiracy,'' Podesta said. ''Rob got the Ph.D.'' 
 Stein was convinced that the left needed to focus on the long term, on building its own network of well-financed nonprofit groups, rather than simply strategizing for the next election. But he was not an especially powerful man in Washington, and all he had to work with was a slide show. For a while he considered writing a book. Instead, he began lugging his slides around town, hoping someone could tell him what to do with them. He was like a traveling salesman, convinced he was hawking a valuable new invention but not quite sure what it did. 
 In the spring of 2003, a friend Stein knew from the Clinton White House arranged for him to meet Simon Rosenberg at the New Democrat Network. Ambitious and hyperarticulate, Rosenberg once worked for the Democratic Leadership Council, the centrist group that laid the groundwork for Clinton's '92 campaign, before splitting off and forming his own political-action committee in 1996. Although he made his name in the party as a centrist New Democrat, Rosenberg, now 40, saw opportunities for his organization -- and, naturally, for himself -- in the increasingly confrontational slant of the party's base during the Bush administration. He didn't agree with all of Howard Dean's positions, but Rosenberg was among the first centrist Democrats to embrace Dean, sensing early on the potential of Dean's following. While the Democratic Leadership Council attacked Dean for his angry brand of populism, Rosenberg looked for a way to tap into the genuine passion among Democrats for a more creative, more defiant kind of politics. He talked to donors around the country, like Andy Rappaport, who were angry at the Clintonesque rhetoric that obscured the sharp ideological divide between them and the Rush Limbaugh right; they were desperate for new policy ideas and for a more aggressive, coherent strategy.
 Rosenberg had hired a Silicon Valley consulting firm to suggest ways for the New Democrat Network to find a niche in this new world. One recommendation, which Rosenberg embraced, was to bring together a group of progressive contributors to talk about financing new kinds of ventures outside the party structure. It was Erica Payne, his New York director, who put a name to the fledgling project: the Phoenix Group. Payne, a business-school graduate and one-time Clinton campaign official, seized on the name one night after getting sucked into a Harry Potter book.
 To Rosenberg, then, Stein's presentation was like an elaborately wrapped gift on Christmas morning: the deeper into it he got, the more enthusiastic he became. Stein had given him, in 30 minutes' worth of slides, a jolting summary of the challenge that needed to be met if the Democratic Party was to avoid total collapse. And the idea was inherently neither centrist nor leftist. Here was something he could take to donors and say: This is why you're losing. Forget this election. Plan for the future. 
 Progressives needed more than a single think tank, like Podesta's group, to counter 30 years of well-targeted conservative philanthropy, Rosenberg argued. The same kind of donors who were willing to shell out millions for political 527's could have a greater impact if they also threw their dollars at nonprofit foundations or institutes. ''If you're a 32-year-old state legislator and you're a conservative, you get to go through all these philosophical trainings,'' Rosenberg said. ''You get all these organizations that are trying to put you through their leadership institutes. You get all these groups sending you their materials. 
 ''Now, you're a 32-year-old Democratic state legislator, and what you do is you learn how to check boxes,'' he continued. ''You learn how to become pro-choice. You learn how to become pro-labor. You learn how to become pro-trial lawyer. You learn how to become pro-environment. And you end up, in that process, with no broad philosophical basis. You end up with no ideas about national security. You end up with no ideas about American history and political theory. You end up, frankly, with no ideas about macroeconomics and economic policy, other than that it's scary.''
 Rosenberg became convinced that the donors had to take the lead. This was already beginning to happen in reaction to the Bush presidency -- wealthy liberals taking it upon themselves to seek out and give money to entrepreneurs with new ideas. MoveOn.org was founded in 1998, during Clinton's impeachment hearings, by Wes Boyd, inventor of the once-ubiquitous flying-toaster screen saver; it was a fringe group until Soros and other donors, mobilized by the debate over Iraq, discovered it in 2003 and started pouring in money. MoveOn now has 2.2 million members and is the most dynamic online enterprise in politics. Rappaport adopted Music for America when it was raising money for the Dean campaign, and he helped keep it going after Dean dropped out. But these were chance encounters, random collisions of money and ideas. What Rosenberg envisioned was a ''virtual marketplace,'' patterned very consciously after the kind of incubators that venture capitalists set up in the 90's, in which major investors could systematically get to know like-minded bright, young innovators. Then the investors, given a choice of ideas, could decide which projects they wanted to get behind.
 ''We will only succeed if we build an entrepreneurial culture in Democratic politics,'' Rosenberg said. ''What we are is this beleaguered group of badly funded, nonscalable nonprofits. You know, Luke Skywalker was able to kill the Death Star with his beleaguered band of warriors, but I'm not sure that that's the model we should shoot for -- shoot the thing down the middle of the tube and hope it blows up the Death Star. We need to build our own answer to the Death Star.''
 Rosenberg introduced Stein to Payne, his New York director, who in turn hounded Alan Patricof, the 69-year-old venture capitalist, until he agreed to hold a few screenings of the slide show. Word that the Soroses and Lewises were involved swelled attendance from a handful of participants at the first meeting to close to 50. The network spread. In Silicon Valley, Rappaport began to hold regular meetings, drawing crowds of 80 or more, and he and his wife flew into New York to attend a session there as well. In Washington, Bren Simon, an Indianapolis-based donor to Democratic causes, brought together a Phoenix Group meeting. Last month, Chris Gabrieli, another major contributor, held his first showing of Stein's presentation for financial executives and dot-com types in Boston, with Jonathan Soros as the star attraction. In Los Angeles, the director and activist Rob Reiner helped set up a chapter for Hollywood liberals, too. 
 The group's name made it sound like a highly selective hedge fund, but in fact it was more like a self-help program. The gatherings became primarily a forum to air frustrations over the state of the party and ruminate on what a liberal answer to the vast right-wing conspiracy might look like. ''The Phoenix Group does not raise money,'' Patricof said when we first met in May. ''The truth is nobody knows why they're coming to these meetings. They don't know what they'll do afterward. We just have an interest in politics.''
 When I talked to Patricof earlier this month, however, he said the nebulous approach of the Phoenix Group had started to come into focus. A dozen principals from across the country had gathered in New York to formulate a plan, he said, and they decided that soon after the election, all the participants will come together for a massive investor meeting, with, perhaps, regional meetings to follow. There, they will hear pitches from progressive entrepreneurs with ideas that need money, and it will be up to the individual members to determine where their money is best spent. No one expects the new progressive organizations that the Phoenix Group backs to look like mirror images of the Heritage Foundation or other conservative behemoths. The goal, instead, is to find the equivalent of these 1960's political models for a faster-moving online world.
 The different geographic factions of the Phoenix Group seem to have different ideas about which models should be financed. In New York, where the financial markets rule, there is an inclination toward investing in proven entities -- people like Podesta and Brock, who recently founded his own organization to monitor the conservative media. In the Bay Area, however, where the new economy already feels old and where jeans and loafers remain the standard business attire, Rappaport's group leans toward more interesting and idiosyncratic kinds of investments. As Rappaport explained it to me, donors should focus on finding the unknown -- young entrepreneurs with risky ideas and no money to test them. The more projects that are given time and capital to germinate, he said, the better the chance that one or two would ultimately generate the kind of ideas that might someday match the momentum of the right wing.
 ''In Silicon Valley, there is a great belief in the strength and power of individual entrepreneurs who are not yet a part of -- and may in fact have exclusively broken off of -- the existing institutions of power,'' Rappaport said. ''So there's a natural belief that David can slay Goliath, and that, in fact, Goliath inevitably will be slain. It's only a question of finding the right David. And by the way, because it's hard to find the right David, we can tolerate the fact that for every one David that slays a Goliath, there are going to be 99 that won't have so much to show for their efforts. And that's O.K.''
 Given how desperately the activists behind the Phoenix Group want to dispatch Bush this November, the paradox is that their longer-term goals, from a purely tactical standpoint, may be better served if he wins. Millionaire Democrats are being driven to act by a perception of powerlessness and deterioration. If Kerry wins, some of the passion will likely drain away, and a lot of Democrats will tell themselves -- like gambling addicts after a hot streak at the blackjack table -- that everything is just fine and that, despite the statistics and the polling, the party remains as vibrant as ever. Raising $100 million for a bunch of think tanks might no longer be so easy.
 But if Kerry does not ascend to the presidency, and Democrats fail to make significant gains in Congress, then the party and its various factions will be as close to debilitating disunity and outright irrelevance as they have been in almost a century. Leftist investors will see their opening -- a chance, at last, to swoop in and save the party from empty centrism. The struggle for control in 2008 will begin almost immediately.
 ''If John Kerry loses, we're going to have a real fight for the soul of the Democratic Party, which began in my campaign,'' Howard Dean told me. His new political action committee, Democracy for America, is giving money to liberal candidates in states where Democrats are edging toward extinction. ''And whether the progressives win or not,'' Dean said, ''will determine whether the Democratic Party has a future in America.''
 It is, perhaps, futile to try to predict what the Democratic Party -- or much of anything in politics, for that matter -- will look like in 2008 or 2012. Terry McAuliffe, the party's chairman and one of the best fund-raisers in its history, says the party's continuing relevance in American life is assured, no matter how many rich donors establish their own competing groups or how many factions vie for dominance. With a new high-tech headquarters, $60 million in the bank and 170 million names in a voter database, McAuliffe said, the old party apparatus isn't going anywhere. ''In 30 years, the institution of the Democratic National Committee will be stronger than it has ever been,'' he said with characteristic bluster. 
 And yet implicit in Dean's prediction are two possible outcomes worth considering, if only because they lend themselves to historical precedent. The first is that the new class of Democratic investors could conceivably end up skewing the party ideologically for years to come. A lot of the political venture capitalists were strong supporters of Dean in the primaries, in the fervent belief that his campaign -- which became, in effect, a classic liberal crusade, in the Jerry Brown mold, only with more money -- was leading the party back in the right direction. Although several donors described themselves to me as ''pragmatic'' in their worldview, the moderate Kerry seemed to elicit in them all the passion of an insurance actuary (Soros labeled him ''acceptable''), and they manifested a pointed distaste for Clintonism as a political philosophy. The way they look at it, centrist Democrats spent a decade appeasing Republicans while the right solidified its occupation of American government. The donors see themselves as the emerging liberal resistance, champions of activist government at home and multilateral cooperation abroad. 
 There is, of course, a striking disconnect between the lives of these new Democratic investors and those of the party's bedrock voters: laborers, racial minorities and immigrants, many of whose faith in sweeping social programs has been badly shaken and who tend to be more culturally conservative than the well-off citizens of New York and Silicon Valley. But if the multimillionaires harbor even the slightest doubts about their qualifications for solving social and geopolitical ills, they don't express it. 
 To see the potential effect of such motivated ideological donors on a political party, you need only study the modern Republican Party. The families who contributed the seed money for what would become the conservative movement were philosophical rebels who followed Barry Goldwater. Like the new venture capitalists, these ideologues started out not with specific policy ideas but with a broad sense of fear, a notion that the system of free enterprise was under siege from radical forces. (The guy who most kept them up at night, oddly enough, was Ralph Nader.) Their money spawned academic proposals, some of which, like privatized Social Security or missile defense, were so far beyond the mainstream of their time as to be considered ludicrous. Not only did these ideas ultimately infiltrate mainstream Republican thought, but much of the agenda ultimately triumphed in the broader arena of public opinion.
 That success built a governing majority for Republicans, but it may have come at a cost to politics as a whole. In 1965, the Republican Party was an inclusive organization, comprising not just Nixonian pragmatists and Goldwater zealots but also liberal followers of Nelson Rockefeller and Henry Cabot Lodge. Forty years on, it is getting increasingly difficult to find a true moderate in the Republican Party, let alone a liberal, so far to the right has the party's equilibrium tilted. This was in large part -- if not entirely -- a consequence of the kind of political philanthropy that Stein and Rosenberg have come to emulate. The culture of the party came to reflect the ideology of the men who subsidized it, and the national dialogue, as a result, has grown less temperate and less tolerant.
 Perhaps the New Age, liberal analogue of this can already be seen in a group like MoveOn.org, which has leveraged its big donations to create a remarkably committed and democratized membership; in April, the group raised $750,000 from its followers in a national bake sale. As a reactionary force, it also demonizes Republicans with an apocalyptic fury. MoveOn was castigated by its critics for displaying on its site an amateur ad comparing Bush to Hitler. Lately, MoveOn has called, repeatedly, for Congress to censure Bush and for Donald Rumsfeld to resign.
 Every time I talked with someone about the Phoenix Group, I posed these questions: even if you succeed in revitalizing progressive politics, might the Democratic Party, like the G.O.P., be pushed toward extremism? And if so, might that make it all but impossible to repair the party's standing in huge swaths of the country -- the South, the West -- where Democrats are fast becoming a permanent minority?
 ''Deep down, that question is in the subconsciousness of all the people who are involved in this, if not in their consciousness,'' Stein said. But he didn't have an answer. Perhaps the most illuminating reply came from Robert Boorstin, a former White House aide who now works on national security at the Center for American Progress. ''Everything has risks,'' he said. ''I would rather take that risk than keep it the way it was.''
 The second potential outcome to which Dean alludes -- that the Democratic Party, per se, might not always exist in America -- might sound, coming from Dean, characteristically overwrought. But it does raise a significant question about the political venture capitalists: what if, in the future, they decided not to support Democrats at all? Suppose there came along an independent candidate, free from the baggage of Democratic Party politics, who espoused with conviction the kind of agenda that donors of the Phoenix Group or America Coming Together really wanted to hear? The forbidding barrier to independent candidates has always been money. But the 527's aren't tied to a party; they can provide unlimited amounts of money to support any cause they want, provided they adhere to certain legal technicalities. 
 When I suggested this to Stern, the service employees' union president, he thought about it for a moment before answering. ''There is an incredible opportunity to have the infrastructure for a third party,'' he said. Stern assured me that he himself has no interest in that, but, he added, ''Anyone who could mobilize these groups would have the Democratic Party infrastructure, and they wouldn't need the Democratic Party.''
 We tend to think of the two political parties that have ruled American politics for the last 150 years as being cemented into the framework of the Constitution. In fact, parties, like the political movements that sustain them, have shelf lives. In the 1840's and 1850's, the Whig Party, at various times, controlled the White House and both houses of Congress. By 1860, at a loss to coherently address slavery, the defining debate of the time, the Whigs vanished from the planet like a bunch of pterodactyls, replaced by Republicans. It is not unthinkable that the privatization of Democratic politics is a step toward institutional obsolescence. People like Andy Rappaport and Jonathan Soros might succeed in revitalizing progressive politics -- while at the same time destroying what we now call the Democratic Party.
 What seems all but certain is that the future of Democratic politics will more closely resemble MoveOn.org than it will resemble anything that happens on the convention floor in Boston. On Memorial Day, I spoke with Harold Ickes, who had been running the Media Fund, a 527 charged with airing anti-Bush ads in the period before this week's convention. Ickes -- like his father, who was a close confidant of Franklin D. Roosevelt's -- has spent a lifetime in service to the Democratic Party, reaching its very highest levels. As we talked about the influence that millionaires and independent groups will have in the years ahead, Ickes sounded more weary than excited, like a man who has accepted change in the family business without entirely embracing it.
 ''When you go out and talk to them, people are much more interested in something like MoveOn.org than in the Democratic Party,'' Ickes said. ''It has cachet. There is no cachet in the Democratic Party.
 ''MoveOn raised a million dollars for a bunch of Texas state senators, man,'' he went on to say. ''Plus their bake sale. If they continue with their cachet and really interest people and focus their people on candidates -- boy, that's a lot of leverage. No party can do that. And what the political ramifications of that are -- '' Ickes's voice trailed off. He shrugged. ''Who knows?'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Paul Sahre)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); POLITICS (74%); ETHICS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); MUSIC (68%); US HOUSE ELECTIONS (66%); IRAQ WAR (64%) Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Ethics; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: QUALCOMM ATHEROS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); STEPHANIE HERSETH SANDLIN (53%) Matt Bai; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



543 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mars Invades Earth

BYLINE: By BARBARA EHRENREICH. 
E-mail: ehrenreich@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's torn cities apart from Inglewood to Chicago and engulfed the entire state of Vermont. Now the conflict's gone national as a presidential campaign issue, with John Kerry hammering the megaretailer for its abysmally low wages and Dick Cheney praising it for its ''spirit of enterprise, fair dealing and integrity.'' This could be the central battle of the 21st century: Earth people versus the Wal-Martians.
 No one knows exactly when the pod landed on our planet, but it seemed normal enough during its early years of gentle expansion. Almost too normal, if you thought about it, with those smiley faces and red-white-and-blue bunting, like the space invaders in a 1950's sci-fi flick when they put on their human suits. 
 Then it began to grow. By 2000, measures of mere size -- bigger than General Motors! richer than Switzerland! -- no longer told the whole story. It's the velocity of growth that you need to measure now: two new stores opening and $1 billion worth of U.S. real estate bought up every week; almost 600,000 American employees churned through in a year (that's at a 44 percent turnover rate). My thumbnail calculation suggests that by the year 4004, every square inch of the United States will be covered by supercenters, so that the only place for new supercenters will be on top of existing ones.
 Wal-Mart will be in trouble long before that, of course, because with everyone on the planet working for the company or its suppliers, hardly anyone will be able to shop there. Wal-Mart is frequently lauded for bringing consumerism to the masses, but more than half of its own ''associates,'' as the employees are euphemistically termed, cannot afford the company's health insurance, never mind its Faded Glory jeans. With hourly wages declining throughout the economy, Wal-Mart -- the nation's largest employer -- is already seeing its sales go soft.
 In my own brief stint at the company in 2000, I worked with a woman for whom a $7 Wal-Mart polo shirt, of the kind we had been ordered to wear, was an impossible dream: It took us an hour to earn that much. Some stores encourage their employees to apply for food stamps and welfare; many take second jobs. Critics point out that Wal-Mart has consumed $1 billion in public subsidies, but that doesn't count the government expenditures required to keep its associates alive. Apparently the Wal-Martians, before landing, failed to check on the biological requirements for human life.
 But a creature afflicted with the appetite of a starved hyena doesn't have time for niceties. Wal-Mart is facing class-action suits for sex discrimination and nonpayment for overtime work (meaning no payment at all), as well as accusations that employees have been locked into stores overnight, unable to get help even in medical emergencies. These are the kinds of conditions we associate with third world sweatshops, and in fact Wal-Mart fails at least five out of 10 criteria set by the Worker Rights Consortium, which monitors universities' sources of logoed apparel -- making it the world's largest sweatshop.
 Confronted with its crimes, the folks at the Bentonville headquarters whimper that the company has gotten too ''decentralized'' -- meaning out of control -- which has to be interpreted as a cry for help. But who is prepared to step forward and show Wal-Mart how to coexist with the people of its chosen planet? Certainly not the enablers, like George Will and National Review's Jay Nordlinger, who smear the company's critics as a ''liberal intelligentsia'' that favors Williams-Sonoma. (Disclosure: I prefer Costco, which pays decent wages, insures 90 percent of its employees and is reputedly run by native-born humans.)
 No, Wal-Mart's only hope lies with its ostensible opponents, like Madeline Janis-Aparicio, who led the successful fight against a new superstore in Inglewood, Calif. ''The point is not to destroy them,'' she told me, ''but to make them accountable.'' Similarly Andy Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, will soon begin a national effort to ''bring Wal-Mart up to standards we can live with.'' He envisions a nationwide movement bringing together the unions, churches, community organizations and environmentalists who are already standing up to the company's recklessly metastatic growth.
 Earth to Wal-Mars, or wherever you come from: Live with us or go back to the mother ship.

Thomas L. Friedman is on leave until October, writing a book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); STARVATION (63%); DISCRIMINATION (60%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (54%); PUBLIC FINANCE (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); MARS (90%); EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



544 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Kill the Empire! (Or Not)

 BODY:
AT Yale University, John Lewis Gaddis is the Robert A. Lovett professor of history and political science and Paul Kennedy is the J. Richardson Dilworth professor of history. For several years now, along with their colleague Charles Hill, they have been discussing and debating foreign policy and grand strategy in a seminar limited to 24 undergraduate and graduate students. Barry Gewen, an editor at the Book Review, asked them to share some of their agreements and disagreements with a larger audience.

How Did 9/11 Change America's Thinking About Foreign Policy?
 GADDIS. The whole premise of our thinking had been that threats come from states. Then suddenly, overnight, levels of damage were done exceeding those at Pearl Harbor by a gang most of us had never heard of. That is a profound change in the national security environment. It exposes a level of vulnerability that Americans have not seen since they were living on the edge of a dangerous frontier 150 years ago.
 KENNEDY. I'd agree, and then add another slant. The whole system of international law was predicated upon states. There's no thought given in the U.N. Charter to nonstate actors. There needs to be agreement on what states can do now with threats from nonstate actors.
 GADDIS. It seems to me that the Bush administration did immediately sense the significance of this new geopolitical situation. Fundamental reassessments of American grand strategy tend to take place in response to crises. And a surprise attack obviously is in many ways the most rattling kind of crisis. What the Bush administration did was to announce a strategy which had never totally been absent from American history -- the idea of pre-emption. That is, when sources of danger exist, the United States has the right to take them out. There was a long history of this kind of behavior in the 19th century. 
 KENNEDY. I'm not going to underestimate the impact of 9/11. But I would argue that the folks who came into office with the president were already fundamentalists. So that the basic change was not in reaction to 9/11. It was people who wanted to step aside from a considerable number of international treaties. They were beginning to alter the agenda in a way that Roosevelt and Kennedy would have thought a bit disturbing. And then comes 9/11, so you can focus all your attention on a crusade. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves: what was the Bush administration doing with regard to Iraq? One time it says it's concerned about weapons of mass destruction. Another time it says Saddam is planning nasty things in the Middle East. And other times he's a moral transgressor of the highest order. You have to wonder whether they were just digging into this big barrel, bringing out whatever was the best excuse for the moment.
 GADDIS. My own sense is that when you see anyone providing that many different justifications, they have one big justification that is not being talked about. The idea, quite simply, was to frighten any state that might, in the future, be harboring terrorists. It's like the parking sign that Mayor Koch used to put up around New York. Remember those? ''Don't even think of parking here.'' Don't even think of harboring terrorists. This, I think, was the real reason we went into Iraq.
 KENNEDY. Well, I think we have frightened states quite a lot. Look at the changeover in Libya in the past 12 to 15 months. Now, what I would suggest we begin to think of, in consultation with others, is a set of resolutions concerning states that harbor terrorist organizations. It may come to something as serious as saying that those states endanger their own sovereignty. This will be a hot debate, of course, since one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter.
 GADDIS. Where I would like to be 15 or 20 years from now is living in a world in which the international community as a whole justifies action, retaliatory or pre-emptive as the case may be, whenever brutal authoritarian regimes are practicing their terrible arts on their own people. The world now must be made safe for democracy, and this is no longer just an idealistic issue; it's an issue of our own safety. And by ''our'' I mean not just the United States, but the international community as a whole. If you take a long historical sweep, this is not as improbable as it might sound.
 KENNEDY. It's going to be harder to do than we think. You may recall, even after Saddam's invasion of Kuwait, four permanent members of the Security Council voted for intervention, but China abstained. It just was not willing to vote for things like this. So how are we going to do it?
 GADDIS. I never said it was going to be easy. It's a long-term objective. You're quite right to say that the Chinese government would not look kindly on external pressure. At the same time, it seems to me incontestable that the Chinese government these days does treat its own people far better than at any time within living memory. So the trend is there, and I think it is worldwide.

Does the United States Have an Empire?
 GADDIS. Of course. We've always had an empire. The thinking of the founding fathers was we were going to be an empire. Empire is as American as apple pie in that sense. The question is, what kind of an empire do we have? A liberal empire? A responsible empire? I have no problem whatever with the proposition that the United States has an empire. 
 KENNEDY. I have quite a bit of a problem; I don't like that one bit. The fact is that most of the rest of the world thinks we are imperial, not to mention imperious. And then you have to ask, what are the consequences of that?
 GADDIS. The really important question is to look at the uses to which imperial power is put. And in this regard, it seems to me on balance American imperial power in the 20th century has been a remarkable force for good, for democracy, for prosperity. What is striking is that great opposition has not arisen to the American empire. Most empires in history have given rise to their own resistance through their imperious behavior. For most of its history as an empire, the United States did manage to be imperial without being imperious. The great concern I have with the current administration is that it has slid over into imperious behavior.
 KENNEDY. John has put his finger on something very interesting, which is this dominant position of the U.S. not yet causing the emergence of counterweights. And I say ''yet'' because I think there's quite a considerable danger that it will. We now have a Europe with a larger G.D.P., and we have a China growing so fast you can hardly keep your eyes on it. Our great power status is unchallenged at the orthodox military level. But it's beginning to look a little bit more fragmented in other dimensions.
 GADDIS. Paul has been worrying about American decline ever since he published a famous book something like a decade and a half ago predicting this.
 KENNEDY. I'm still worrying. 
 GADDIS. What is really striking, if one looks at the half-century of American global pre-eminence going back to World War II, is the extent to which we did stick with it over the long haul. It is quite a respectable record.
 KENNEDY. Yes. But my argument always has been concern about the overstretches -- and that's measured not just by the number of troops and air bases; it's about economic sustainability, fiscal and trade imbalances. Keeping the balance there is about the single most important thing an American administration should do, and trying to see where international organizations work and where we can't make them work. This sense of what works and what doesn't has been lacking, and we need to get back to it. I am angry at what the government has done in the past two years. I think they've made a lot of mistakes. And we pay a considerable price for that. 
 GADDIS. I'm angry about something as well. I'm angry that the current administration thought creatively about the situation it confronted on Sept. 11 and responded with a serious reconsideration of American strategy, but then they screwed it up in Iraq. They violated a really fundamental principle. It's the dog-and-car syndrome. Dogs spend a lot of time thinking about and chasing cars. But they don't know what to do with a car when they actually catch one. It seems to me this, in a nutshell, is what has happened to the Bush administration in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Kennedy (left) and John Lewis Gaddis discuss foreign policy and grand strategy. (Photograph by Lisa Iaboni/NYTIMES.COM)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (93%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Yale University

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (90%) John Lewis Gaddis; Paul Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



545 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Bush vs. Kerry Ignites Battles Over Dinner And the TV

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 23 

 BODY:
Who knew a condiment could set off so much civil unrest?
 It all began a few weeks ago, when a few right-leaning lunch customers at City Beans began rejecting the usual squirt of Heinz ketchup on their paninis, saying they did not want to support a company with the same name as the wife of the presidential contender John Kerry. It didn't take long before strident remarks about President Bush, Mr. Kerry, the economy and the war in Iraq began whizzing up and down the lunch line, with Democrats and Republicans trading barbs as they waited to be served by Narciza Lopez, the assistant manager. ''People never used to talk politics here,'' said Ms. Lopez. ''Now every day is like a war. It's making me crazy.'' 
 A similar kind of war breaks out each Sunday night around a dinner table in working-class Kearny, where hotheaded political discourse has begun cleaving Josefa Salino's family into two camps. ''My parents used to agree on everything, and now they're like enemies when it comes to Bush and Kerry,'' said Ms. Salino, an accountant. ''It's hard to enjoy your food when everyone is yelling.''
 Although he is outnumbered by Republicans on the trading floor of Prudential Securities' Newark offices, Rob Lawrence has begun making a pest of himself, cornering colleagues with pointed invective against what he sees as the failings of the Bush administration. ''I just can't help myself,'' said Mr. Lawrence, a lawyer and self-described liberal. ''I'm trying to win converts, although I haven't been very successful yet.''
 Political passions are raging all across New Jersey, where office workers, sunbathers and drinking buddies have been swept up in spirited debate over the presidential contest, the war on terrorism and ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' the documentary by Michael Moore that is critical of the Bush administration. Political apathy has been replaced by the kind of vocal discourse not seen since the race between Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan in 1980, when gas lines ran for blocks and American hostages where being held in Iran.
 Cliff Zukin, a public policy professor at Rutgers University, said he was surprised to hear people talking presidential politics last week during a visit to the state motor vehicles office. ''I've never seen people so passionate, where they genuinely believe there's a lot at stake,'' said Mr. Zukin. ''It you're a political scientist following the race, this is very cool.''
 In recent years, New Jersey has been reliably Democratic; Al Gore won New Jersey over Mr. Bush by an easy 16 percentage points in the last election. Still, recent polls give Mr. Kerry a six-point lead over Mr. Bush, and the White House has put New Jersey on its list of states worth fighting for.
 If opinions in New Jersey are particularly hardened, it may have something to do with its geographical proximity to terrorism. The destruction of the World Trade Center exacted a heavy toll here, especially in commuter towns of northern New Jersey, and many residents are fiercely divided over whether the war in Iraq might quell or foment future attacks. 
 Gita Bajaj, whose apartment in Guttenberg faces the Manhattan skyline, said she has seen the changes in friends and neighbors whose eyes once glazed over at the mention of words like military intelligence and foreign policy. ''People are not as blase and jaded as before,'' said Ms. Bajaj, a media consultant. ''Many of us watched the towers come down from our windows and smelled the smoke for weeks. I think we realize that what our government does abroad can come back to haunt us at home.''
 Heidi Knopp, whose brother-in-law died in the attacks of Sept. 11, does not shy away from broadcasting her disapproval of Mr. Bush and the invasion of Iraq, especially to other mothers whose children attend the same private school as her own. ''I've become obsessed with this election,'' said Ms. Knopp, who lives in Short Hills, one of the state's most affluent communities. ''I remind them that we all have boys and that they'll soon be of draft age. I've become very opinionated on the topic.''
 For supporters of the president, the last few weeks have been particularly challenging. ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' whipped up anti-Bush sentiment just as a Senate Intelligence Committee report found the nation's prewar intelligence on Iraq severely lacking. At the same time, Mr. Kerry's anointing of a running mate and a sinking approval rating for the president seemed to embolden Democrats.
 Michael Goldman, a Bush supporter from Maplewood, says the public gloating he hears around town makes his blood boil. ''You hear these dumb people at ShopRite criticizing the president, and they're not even well informed,'' said Mr. Goldman, a retired textile salesman. ''It's all emotions and little fact. What they don't realize is that only Bush can keep us safe.''
 Emotions tend to run high on both sides. Paula Licciardi has been avoiding certain friends who do not share her opinions about the war in Iraq, which she opposes. ''Sometimes they gang up on me when we go out to dinner,'' said Ms. Licciardi, a homemaker from Boonton. ''I guess they know I'm outnumbered.'' Still, Ms. Licciardi does not hesitate to express her feelings to her seven children, especially the two sons who remain partial to Mr. Bush. ''Whenever I get the chance, I'll make a disparaging comment about the president,'' she said with a grin. ''I think it may be having an impact.''
 Although political differences among family members are nothing new, the vehemence expressed among relatives has been wreaking a small degree of havoc on domestic peace. Consider the MacFarland clan of West Orange: Keith and Gayle MacFarland, proud backers of Mr. Bush, are often at odds with Mrs. MacFarland's dependably Democratic parents, Albert and Janet Tichenor.
 Much of the drama is channeled into a struggle over the television remote control, although Keith MacFarland often prevails, making sure Fox News rules the living room set when his in-laws visit a few times each week. ''If he wants to watch CNN, he has to go to the den,'' said Mr. MacFarland, the quality control manager for an audio-visual installation company. ''It's my house.''
 During dinner, Mr. Tichenor, a retired printer from Manahawkin, sometimes finds himself seething, especially when the commentator Bill O'Reilly is talking in the background. ''Sometimes I have to swallow hard and hold my tongue,'' said Mr. Tichenor. ''I get passionate because servicemen are dying over there.'' Mr. Tichenor has to swallow even harder when he rides in his daughter's Toyota Sienna, which has a Bush-Cheney '04 sticker on the bumper. ''I tell him just don't look at it,'' said Mrs. MacFarland.
 The balance of power swings the other way when the MacFarlands spend time at the Tichenors' home in Manahawkin. There, CNN predominates, and the seething is largely done by Mr. MacFarland. ''Sometimes he goes off the deep end,'' said Mrs. MacFarland. ''Things have gotten so bad lately, I've been insisting we just watch Turner classics.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert Tichenor, center, is at odds with his daughter, Gayle MacFarland, and her husband, Keith MacFarland. They are Bush supporters and keep the TV set tuned to Fox News while the Tichenors are visiting. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); TERRORISM (66%); HOSTAGE TAKING (61%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); AL GORE (56%) Andrew Jacobs; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



546 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review; The Nation: Moment of Truth; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: What's the Presidential Tipping Point?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL ORESKES

 BODY:
IN presidential elections much is made of the power of incumbency. Who but the president can order up an aircraft carrier for a speaker's platform? But there are perils, too, as George W. Bush is finding. Because when you are the incumbent the election is, fundamentally, about you.
 On this summer weekend, jammed between the harsh report of the 9/11 commission and the nomination of John Kerry at the Democratic convention, Mr. Bush finds himself in the same difficult place as Harry S. Truman in 1948 and Jimmy Carter in 1980: an incumbent facing a dubious electorate that could tip either way. 
 ''At some point, politicians can step over an amorphous line that separates good or questionable judgment from inexcusably arrogant, outrageous or incompetent behavior,'' said Professor Jeffery A. Smith, an historian at the University of Wisconsin and the author of ''American Presidential Elections: Trust and the Rational Voter.'' ''That shatters trust. Democracy is built on perceptions of trustworthiness. We bond with politicians who tell us they like us and are like us, but their images and stories can be built up and torn down by what they actually do. If they disappoint, they may be discarded if the alternatives don't look worse.''
 Confidence and trust are fragile things in any relationship, no less between a president and voters. Voters still rate Mr. Bush fairly well on the big question of fighting terrorism. But support for the war in Iraq has been sliding, particularly since the killings of American security guards who were burned and hung from a bridge for the world to see. When Mr. Bush launched the war last year, three-quarters of the country approved. This month, in the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, nearly 6 of 10 potential voters disapproved.
 A president's overall standing generally holds up longer than support on any specific issue or attribute. Support for the Vietnam War declined for several years before Lyndon B. Johnson's overall support began eroding. The 1968 election was already under way before Johnson realized the depth of his problems and withdrew from the race for re-election.
 For Mr. Bush, the country is about evenly divided on approval of his presidency, according to the latest poll. But there are some ominous signs that Mr. Bush is beginning to suffer from a Johnson-style ''credibility gap'' after sending the country to war to root out weapons of mass destruction and links to Al Qaeda, and being unable to prove either one. When asked by The New York Times and CBS News in June whether Mr. Bush was being completely honest about the war in Iraq, 20 percent of voters said he was mostly lying and 59 percent said he was hiding something. Only 18 percent thought he was telling the entire truth.
 The question for Mr. Bush is how damaged is his bond with the voters? Has he tipped into a negative zone from which he cannot recover? Or can he win a second term?
 ''The bond can break, and in Bush's case the bond has broken for some previous supporters,'' said Thomas E. Patterson, a professor of government and the press at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. ''However, presidential support is based on multiple influences -- including partisanship. It took a long time, for example, for certain groups of Americans to conclude in 1973-74 that Nixon had to go. Bush will have a lot of trouble regaining those that have become deeply dissatisfied with his leadership. But I don't have a sense yet that he's lost so many early backers that he's a goner.''
 The race is not so much too close to call, as too soon to call. Of the 52 presidential elections since the first in 1796, slightly more than half have involved incumbent presidents, a special dynamic. When an incumbent seeks another term, voters make a threshold calculation, students of elections say. ''The basic issue is, does the president have the confidence of the voters on the big questions,'' said Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, who has been polling about presidents for a generation. 
 Ronald Reagan in 1984 and Bill Clinton in 1996 passed this referendum. The voters judged that they were trustworthy to deliver the proverbial peace and prosperity. Their opponents, Walter S. Mondale and Robert Dole, never got a serious look.
 But when voters have enough doubts about a sitting president they begin to consider the alternative. That is not where an incumbent wants to be ''with little over 100 days until an historic election,'' as Mr. Bush himself described the ticking clock last week.
 An incumbent has two choices in this situation. He can work to repair strained bonds with crucial voters or he can try to tear down his opponents plausibility as a replacement. Mr. Bush and his campaign are doing both.
 Mr. Bush was reassuring supporters Thursday night that he had been hitting the hustings hard in crucial swing states. The president's campaign schedule is just one example of the extraordinarily early -- and expensive -- start to this presidential race. 
 History shows that politically wounded presidents can come back. Certainly, Truman in 1948 had been counted out by nearly everyone, including the headline writers at The Chicago Tribune. But he campaigned relentlessly and in the final days turned the race into a choice between his common-man image and the buttoned-up Republican candidate, Thomas E. Dewey.
 The 1980 election played out in almost the exact opposite way. The economy at home and the hostage crisis in Iran left Jimmy Carter in trouble. But with eight days to go the election was still close. Then Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter stood side by side in debate, and voters decided Mr. Reagan was a legitimate alternative. Only then did a horse race turn into a rout.
 History, with apologies to Marx and Hegel, is instructive, not determining. Of those 28 elections involving an incumbent president, the incumbent was turned out of office in nine. But only two of those elections involved an incumbent who came to office despite losing the popular vote. In both the incumbent lost a bid for reelection.
 But neither John Quincy Adams nor Benjamin Harrison went through anything like what Mr. Bush has been through in office. Thomas H. Kean, the chairman of the 9/11 commission, said he could find no historical comparison -- not even Pearl Harbor -- to the impact on the country of the terrorist attacks of 2001.
 Politically speaking, the shock of the attacks seemed to wipe away the debate about Mr. Bush's legitimacy. His support soared to historic highs as the nation rallied around him. In that sense, most Americans ''voted for'' Mr. Bush in the fall of 2001.
 Some critics still do raise the legitimacy question. Michael Moore opens his documentary polemic against Mr. Bush with a reprise of the 2000 election. But the question that voters seem to be wrestling with now is not whether Mr. Bush is a legitimate president but whether he is a trustworthy one.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about credibility in presidential politics misidentified a historian who discussed the bond between voters and elected officials. He is Jeffery A. Smith of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, who wrote the book ''War and Press Freedom: The Problem of Prerogative Power,'' not Jeffrey A. Smith, the author of ''American Presidential Elections: Trust and the Rational Voter.'' The article also misstated the year of the first American presidential election. It was 1789, not 1796. (The first contested election was in 1796.) 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawing by Seymour Chwast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); APPROVALS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HISTORY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WRITERS (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); AL-QAEDA (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); VIETNAM WAR (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



547 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Political Points; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: On Eve of Convention, a Quiz

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:

1. The ratio of delegates to journalists at the Democratic National Convention will be approximately:
 a) Two delegates for every journalist
 b) One to one 
 c) Two journalists for every delegate
 d) Three journalists for every delegate

2. The theme of the convention is:
 a) Four days to stronger values
 b) Strong leadership, shared values
 c) One America, stronger than ever
 d) Strong at home, respected in the world
 e) Hey, three hours of prime time is better than nothing
 a) Extreme Makeover
 b) Fear Factor
 c) The Outer Limits 
 d) Who Wants to Be a Millionaire

4. How many of the Democratic delegates belong to the National Rifle Association?
 a) 2 percent
 b) 11 percent
 c) 24 percent

5. When journalists do impressions of John Kerry, their favorite words to quote are:
 a) I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it. 
 b) I have three words for this president that I know he understands: Bring it on!
 c) Folks, I say to you 
 d) I learned my first cuss words sitting on a tractor.
 e) Who among us doesn't like Nascar?

6. Mr. Kerry's favorite line in recent speeches has been ''Let America be America again,'' the title and refrain of a 1938 poem by Langston Hughes. Identify three objections that have been raised by critics:
 a) Hughes was a Stalinist in the 1930's.
 b) Hughes was a Republican in the 1930's.
 c) In later life, Hughes said he didn't have ''the faintest idea'' what the line meant and dismissed it as ''some pseudo-existentialist garbage I was using to impress a girl in Paris.''
 d) Hughes's seemingly nostalgic line was actually an angry bit of sarcasm in a poem attacking America for never being fair to its citizens.
 e) In the 1930's, there was not much in American history to induce nostalgia in an African-American like Hughes.
 f) In focus groups in battleground states, two-thirds of swing voters say they are not aware America ever became another nation.

7. To promote ''the efficient use of energy in the places that we work and live,'' John Kerry has personally pledged to:
 a) Install a windmill on the South Lawn of the White House
 b) Cut the federal government's energy bill by 20 percent by 2020
 c) Travel to Camp David by bicycle
 d) Require a five-percent annual increase in the energy-efficiency of home heating and cooling equipment
 e) Turn off the 12.5 tons of air-conditioning equipment at his Boston home for the duration of his presidency

8. ''There are two Americas -- and millions of the people already distinguish between them,'' an orator declared years before John Edwards turned that distinction into his stump speech. The earlier orator spoke of one nation run for the rich whose militarism made it ''the America the people of the world hate and fear,'' in contrast to ''the other America--the America of the workers and farmers and the 'little people.''' Who was that orator?
 a) William Jennings Bryan, at the 1900 Democratic convention
 b) Warren Harding, at the 1920 Republican convention
 c) James Cannon, at the 1948 convention of the Socialist Workers Party 
 d) George McGovern, at the 1972 Democratic convention
 e) Robert Shrum, the future speechwriter for both Mr. Edwards and Mr. Kerry, in the 1965 valedictory address at Georgetown University.

9. The text of the platform adopted by the convention this week will be as historically significant, and scrutinized just as closely, as the text of the:
 a) Federalist Papers
 b) Declaration of Independence 
 c) Magna Carta
 d) Ten Commandments
 e) Captions with Miss July in Playboy

10. Here are three pairs of statements about foreign policy. Each pair contains one excerpt from the Republican platform in 2000 and one excerpt from the Democratic platform being presented to the convention this week. Pick out the Democratic one in each pair.
 a) Almost all Americans know they cannot prosper alone in the world. They know that America is safest when more and more countries share a profound belief in political and economic liberty, human dignity and the rule of law. 
 b) We know that promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law is vital to our long-term security. Americans will be safer in a world of democracies.
 a) We believe in an America that people around the world admire, because they know we cherish not just our freedom, but theirs. Not just our democracy, but their hope for it. Not just our peace and security, but the world's.
 b) The administration has squandered the opportunity granted to the United States by the courage and sacrifice of previous generations. It is time for America to regain its focus. We can restore our country's sense of international purpose and national honor.
 a) Around the globe, the word, the ideals and the power of the United States commanded respect . [But now the current administration's arrogance has] undermined American alliances, alienated friends, and emboldened our adversaries. 
 b) We respected the world and the world respected us. [But now the current administration's arrogance has] driven away our allies and cost us the support of other nations.

11. In recent polling by The New York Times and CBS News, delegates to the Democratic convention were nearly twice as likely as the typical American voter to agree with one of the following statements. Which one?
 a) Government should do more to promote traditional values.
 b) Government should not favor one set of values over another.
 c) Government should encourage entertainers like Linda Ronstadt to share their values and geopolitical expertise with audiences.
 d) Government is doing too many things better left to businesses and individuals. 
 e) Government should do more to solve national problems.
 f) Government should put George W. Bush on the next plane to Saudi Arabia.

12. Poll takers asked the convention delegates as well as voters across America about the relevance of political conventions. Thirty-six percent of the American public said the conventions were no longer needed. How many of the delegates agreed?
 a) 0 percent
 b) 2 percent
 c) 7 percent
 d) 13 percent
 e) 37 percent

ANSWERS 1: d. 2: d. 3: a. 4: a (according to the New York Times/CBS News poll of delegates). 5: e. 6: a, d, e (as raised by the columnists William F. Buckley Jr. and Timothy Noah). 7: b. 8: c (as noted by the columnist James Taranto). 9: e. 10: b, a, b. 11: e. 12: c.


3. The Republican National Committee has compared the Democratic convention to the following television program:

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WRITERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (64%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (64%); HVAC SYSTEMS (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); HISTORY (50%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (78%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



548 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: IDEOLOGICAL LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1904 words

HEADLINE: Voters Are Very Settled, Intense And Partisan, and It's Only July

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
Clif Kelley, a retired economist, stood in the leafy backyard of his suburban home one recent evening and summoned his Democratic neighbors, 62 of whom were arrayed before him, to the political barricades.
 ''We firmly believe that another four years of Bush in the White House will do incredible damage to this country,'' declared Mr. Kelley, 87, imploring his neighbors to get involved, knock on doors, make sure their precinct (which went to President Bush by six votes four years ago) goes for Senator John Kerry this time around.
 ''I am one of those World War II veterans who are dying off at a rapid pace, and I can't stand the thought of dying under a Bush administration.''
 That same intensity was palpable the following day, in Beckley, W.Va., where thousands of people like Jim Farnsworth, a 32-year-old telephone technician holding his 1-month-old son, turned out for a rally with Mr. Bush. ''Voted for him last time, will vote for him again, would even vote for him a third term if he would run,'' Mr. Farnsworth said. ''I like the convictions that he stands on. Abortion, family.'' 
 His wife, Tina, chimed in, ''His belief in God.'' Behind them, as far as the eye could see, snaked a line of like-minded voters, patiently waiting for hours in the scorching sun to see their president.
 This is not the typical July of a presidential election year.
 Rarely has a presidential campaign been this intense, this polarized, this partisan, this early. The conventions historically begin the general election season, ending a lull after the primary season has wound down. But for months now, the general election battle has been fully joined.
 Crowds are bigger than normal for this time of year, campaign veterans say, and money has poured in at an astonishing rate. Voters sometimes seem on the verge of tears as they reach for their candidate's hand on the rope line. They wait in the rain, they line up for hours to go through the metal detectors and the increasingly elaborate security, they cheer every biting partisan line.
 The idea of a red America and a blue America, Republican and Democratic, two countries separated by a yawning cultural divide, has become a cliche, dismissed by many experts as overdrawn. The electorate, taken as a whole, is no more divided over hot-button issues like abortion than it was in years past, those experts argue; a large middle ground still exists on many other issues, like the need for more affordable health care.
 But the increasing partisanship of the 1980's and 1990's has left its mark on politics, culminating in the intensity of this campaign. Most voters have already chosen sides -- sometimes angrily, often passionately. The swing voter and the independent, once thought to be the models of the modern voter, are harder to find this year, according to pollsters in both parties.
 One telling measure: 79 percent surveyed in the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll said their minds had been made up about whom to vote for in November; 64 percent felt that way in July 2000. Similarly, the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found that one in five voters this summer were ''persuadable,'' compared with one in three at this stage in past campaigns.
 The trend has been building for a long time, many analysts say. Gary C. Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego, said, ''Over the past 30 years, after a long period of decline, partisanship has been increasing, in the proportion of people who identify with parties and who act on the basis of that identification.''
 Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, said that what has changed among voters is not their loyalty to party, per se, but the size of the gap between what Democrats and Republicans think and believe -- on the social safety net, the role of government, the image of business.
 In fact, the ideological lines between the parties have grown sharper, with Democrats more likely to be liberal, Republicans conservative. It was a gradual, but ultimately striking change: 25 years ago, more Democratic voters described themselves as conservatives than as liberals, according to polls by The Times and CBS News. In the same period, Republican voters calling themselves liberals fell from 15 percent to 8 percent. Today, conservative Democrats and liberal Republicans are a dwindling breed.
 The Southern conservative wing of the Democratic Party, for generations a power in the region and on Capitol Hill, is now much diminished. Twenty-nine percent of white Southern male voters said they were Republicans in 1972; 49 percent in 2000, according to surveys of voters leaving polling places. 
 Similarly, white evangelical Protestants were evenly divided between the Democratic and Republican Parties in 1987-1988, according to the Pew survey; by 2003, nearly twice as many were Republicans as Democrats.
 The voters have ''sorted themselves out,'' as many experts put it, and found their ideological home. Frank McQuillen, a machinist in Beckley, for example, said he was a registered Democrat until this year, but had not voted for a Democrat for president since Jimmy Carter in 1976. 
 ''I love George Bush,'' Mr. McQuillen said. ''He's got the same convictions and principles that I have on a lot of things. Course, I don't agree with everything he stands for, but most of the important things I do.''
 Mr. McQuillen, wearing a sticker that declared he was a ''Friend of Coal,'' added of Mr. Bush, ''He's against big government, he's against abortion, he's against gay marriage.''
 Nowhere are the partisan divisions sharper than in the voters' views of President Bush. Eighty-four percent of the Republicans approve of the job he is doing, but just 16 percent of the Democrats do, according to the latest Times/CBS News poll. 
 The partisan gap in presidents' approval ratings soared with Ronald Reagan's re-election year and remained high with his successors, according to data from the Gallup Poll, which has tracked the subject for 56 years. But it has intensified with Mr. Bush.
 Matthew Dowd, chief pollster and strategist for the Bush campaign, described the president's partisan approval rating as part of a trend that is many years in the making. ''It's a reflection of the parity of the parties and where things stand in this country,'' Mr. Dowd argued.
 Ralph Reed, another top Bush campaign adviser, said, ''The divisions within the electorate are reflective not of the leadership style of the president but of deeper fault lines running through the country as a whole.''
 But Democrats, like Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, counter that Mr. Bush has heightened those divisions, run a fiercely partisan presidency, and abused the trust accorded him after the attacks on Sept. 11. ''He basically had carte blanche for a year, and he spent it,'' Mr. Emanuel said.
 The war with Iraq and the disputed circumstances of Mr. Bush's taking office have heightened the animosity among Democrats, many analysts say. Seventy-six percent of the Democrats in the most recent Times/CBS News poll said Mr. Bush was not the legitimate winner of the 2000 election. 
 When asked how she voted four years ago, Mary Jo Marraffa, a chiropractor at Mr. Kelley's backyard gathering in Columbus, replied: ''I voted for the president who really won, but didn't get in. That one.''
 Martha Bowling, an elementary school counselor also at the party, is the mother of two marines -- a son and a daughter -- deployed in Iraq. ''I don't resent them being gone,'' she said. ''I am afraid to have a commander in chief whom I don't trust.''
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic whip, said, ''There is a hardened feeling on both sides.'' 
 Former Senator Warren B. Rudman, the New Hampshire Republican, said that after a lifetime in politics, ''I don't recall the hatred -- not just dislike and disagreement, but hatred -- that a lot of Republicans had for Clinton and a lot of Democrats now have for President Bush.''
 Mr. Rudman and many other political veterans note that these passions are expertly stoked by the consultant-driven politics of the modern era. That is, perhaps, especially true this year, when many consultants believe the election will turn on which side best energizes and turns out its core constituents. 
 More fuel for the partisan fires comes from a simple fact: Rarely have the stakes been higher in terms of sheer power.
 The Reagan era was an ideological time, many politicians noted, but each party had its stronghold and government was neatly divided. Republicans had the White House and, for six years, the Senate. Democrats seemed secure in the House and in statehouses around the country.
 Now, Republicans have sweeping power -- both houses of Congress, the White House and the potential of naming as many as three seats on the Supreme Court over the next four years. But their power is held by the narrowest of margins. 
 ''We're living through a natural period of really intense struggle for power,'' said Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House and a man widely credited with (or blamed for) bringing a new ideological edge to the chamber. ''Until one side or the other succeeds, it will continue to be a slugging match because so much is at stake.''
 And voters on both sides seem to understand. Four years ago, only 45 percent of Americans said it ''really matters'' who wins the election; this year, 63 percent said so, according to the Pew Research Center. Democrats and independents particularly thought this was true. 
 Pat Kelley, Clif Kelley's wife, defined the stakes of a second Bush term this way: ''I don't like his policies on the environment, and his policies on the Supreme Court just scare me to death. I see Scalia as taking over from Rehnquist.'' 
 She added, ''And he started this war with no reason.'' 
 The Kelleys said they felt they had to act. ''We've never been involved like this before, in an election,'' Ms. Kelley said. ''But this time it's serious. This is the most serious election in 70 years, I think.''
 Jennifer Walker, a former schoolteacher and stay-at-home mother of two from Nitro, W.Va., was no less serious as she outlined her case for Mr. Bush. 
 ''I don't want to give the wrong impression, that he's all about the war,'' she said. ''I think he would prefer peace. But it's not a perfect world. There are terrorists and hurtful regimes and sometimes you have to go to war. And once you start a war, you have to finish it. And I'm not sure that would happen if Kerry was elected.''
 For all the differences between Democrats and Republicans, there is also common ground. Big majorities in both parties, for example, believe major changes are needed in the health care system, according to the most recent Times/CBS News poll. On abortion, many voters take a far more nuanced position than the leaders of their parties. 
 Morris P. Fiorina, a political scientist at Stanford and one of the authors of ''Culture War? The Myth of a Polarized America,'' says voters are far less divided than are their elected officials and party activists.
 Still, as Mr. Kohut put it, ''It is a very contentious year.'' And some elected officials are already looking ahead and worrying that the transition to governing will be that much harder for it. 
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe, a moderate Republican from Maine, said, ''At the end of the day you have to coalesce around some consensus solutions.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Clif Kelley spoke with Karen and Doug MacBeth at a recent Kerry rally at his home in Columbus, Ohio. (Photo by Michael Houghton for The New York Times)
 President Bush greeted supporters at a campaign rally in Beckley, W.Va., where voters waited for hours to see him up close. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. 14)Chart:The gap between the approval rating of the president by the members of his own party and the rating by members of the opposing party has been widening. The largest gap during each re-election year is shown below.G.W. Bush: 74 pct. pointsClinton: 67G. Bush: 62Reagan: 69Carter: 49Ford: 40Nixon: 48Johnson: 37Eisenhower: 43(Source by Gallup Poll)(pg. 1)Chart: ''A Growing Gap''The gap between the approval rating of the president by members of his own party and the rating by members of the opposing party has been widening. The number of polls in each re-election year varied.Graph tracks presidential approval rating in re-election years for the following presidents:Harry S. TrumanDwight D. EisenhowerLyndon B. JohnsonRichard M. NixonGerald R. FordJimmy CarterRonald ReaganGeorge BushBill ClintonGeorge W. BushHOW THE PUBLIC IDENTIFIES ITSELFOver the past 25 years, Republicans have become conservative and Democrats more liberal, according to 311 nationwide surveys.Percentage of Americans who say they are:REPUBLICAN1979: 22%2004: 29%INDEPENDENT1979: 332004: 31DEMOCRATS1979: 392004: 33Percentage of Republicans who say they are:LIBERAL1979: 152004: 8MODERATE1979: 352004: 35CONSERVATIVE1979: 422004: 54Percentage of Democrats who say they are:CONSERVATIVE1979: 312004: 20MODERATE1979: 342004: 44LIBERAL1979: 212004: 32(Sources by Polls by The New York Times, CBS News and the Gallup Poll)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); VETERANS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ABORTION (66%); METAL DETECTORS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Finances; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



549 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Choreographs Vote for Chosen Premier

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: HASAN ABDAL, Pakistan 

 BODY:
His campaign signs blanket billboards, bridges and roadsides in this working-class area, at first glance another sign of Pakistan's gradual return to full democracy.
 But the candidate, Shaukat Aziz, is running in a carefully chosen, pro-government district that is being showered with government money. Opposition political parties have nominated a local doctor to run against him, but Mr. Aziz is, in the eyes of many observers, virtually certain to win. The vote is, in the estimation of Pakistanis here and elsewhere around the country, less about the will of the electorate than about the will of Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's American-backed president. 
 Mr. Aziz is a multimillionaire former Citibank executive. He is also the current finance minister and General Musharraf's choice to be Pakistan's next prime minister. To take the job, though, he is required to be a member of Parliament. The carefully choreographed election here is intended to make him one.
 Mr. Aziz, 55, personifies the image that General Musharraf is trying to convey of his country. He is a technocrat who is the seeming embodiment of a modern, moderate Pakistani, a well-spoken, silver-haired cosmopolitan who wears designer suits and expensive cuff links. Since he became finance minister five years ago, the country's economic growth has more than doubled, to 6.4 percent from 3.1 percent, a rate topped in Asia only by the sizzling economies of China, India and Thailand. 
 In an interview in Islamabad last week, Mr. Aziz, was relentlessly upbeat, urbane and confident. He praised General Musharraf and said the economy was roaring, militancy was fading and poverty was in decline.
 ''Pakistan, which used to be in pretty precarious health, has turned the corner,'' he said, referring to the economy. ''Everything is heading in the right direction.''
 But critics question how deeply the prosperity has spread and how much credit Mr. Aziz can take for it, and they also say his selection as prime minister is exactly what is wrong with the Musharraf government.
 By carefully engineering Mr. Aziz's campaign rather than encouraging a freer choice among candidates, the critics say the president is again placing a higher value on carrying out his personal will than on gradually building democratic institutions.
 ''It's so depressing,'' said Jugnu Mohsin, publisher of The Friday Times, a leading Pakistani weekly. ''This is what they think of the people of Pakistan.''
 As prime minister of this poor, nuclear armed nation of 150 million, which plays a crucial role in the United States campaign against terrorism, Mr. Aziz not only will face many delicate challenges, but also will have to do his best to outlast his predecessor. In a political reshuffling orchestrated by General Musharraf last month, the former prime minister, Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali, a pliable career politician, resigned after 20 months on the job.
 According to Pakistani officials, General Musharraf felt that Mr. Jamali did not work hard enough and presented a poor image of Pakistan abroad. He also reportedly failed to back with adequate enthusiasm a powerful new National Security Council, which institutionalized the army's role in Pakistani politics.
 By choosing an outsider, which surprised the Pakistani establishment, General Musharraf effectively snubbed all 130 members of the lower house of Parliament who back him, including those of his own Pakistan Muslim League. 
 Political analysts said the choice reflected General Musharraf's continued belief that generals and technocrats could do a better job running Pakistan than the country's old-line politicians who were accused of corruption and mismanagement when they ran the country in the 1990's. 
 On paper, Mr. Aziz brings with him an impressive track record as finance minister. Working for a salary of one Pakistani rupee a month, Mr. Aziz oversaw the stabilization of the country's economy after years of financial uncertainty. 
 In this year's budget, debt servicing dropped to 35.4 percent of expenditures from 64 percent in late 1990's, according to government figures. At the same time, after years of relative austerity, spending on education and health care rose 20 percent from last year's. 
 A self-made multimillionaire, Mr. Aziz grew up in a middle class family in the sprawling southern port city of Karachi. His father, a state radio engineer who once studied at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, sent him to missionary schools and a prestigious American-financing Pakistani graduate business school. He then worked for Citibank in Pakistan for several years before being sent to his first foreign posting, in Athens. 
 Over the 30 years, Mr. Aziz became a senior bank executive, while working in the Middle East, Europe, Asia and New York, where he lived for six years. He commuted to Citibank's Manhattan headquarters from Greenwich, Conn., and still fondly recalls his midtown view. Two of his children attend American universities, while a third studied at the London School of Economics. 
 Mr. Aziz has never been accused of corruption, a charge that plagues many Pakistani politicians. He speaks English impeccably and dresses immaculately in Hermes ties and Canali suits. In short, he appears to be a perfect spokesman for Pakistan in the United States and Europe.
 But General Musharraf's political opponents contend that Mr. Aziz's economic achievements are exaggerated. Unemployment, measured at 7.8 percent in 2000, rose to 8.3 percent this year, and after jumping a robust 4.1 percent last year, growth in the agriculture sector, which employees 40 percent of the working population, has slumped to 2.6 percent this year. 
 The country's economic successes, the critics say, may not last and have been fueled by a series of one-time, post-Sept. 11 fiscal boons, including American debt relief and a surge in remittances from Pakistanis living abroad. And, they say, many of the successful reforms were engineered by government economists rather than Mr. Aziz.
 In interviews, residents of the area 30 miles west of Islamabad that make up the two constituencies where Mr. Aziz is running, said they had seen no improvement in the economy. 
 ''Joblessness is increasing,'' said Ali Shah Mazhar, a 57-year-old painter. ''Things are getting worse.'' He and others said they believed the election had already been decided. ''We will vote for Shaukat Aziz because he will win anyway,'' said Tariq Mahmood, a 30-year-old unemployed civil engineer. ''It's just a formality.''
 If General Musharraf and Mr. Aziz can deliver several years of economic growth and security, they could silence their critics. In the interview, Mr. Aziz said the economy would perform strongly and played down the country's security problems, even though in the last 18 months, 330 Pakistanis had been killed in 82 terrorist attacks, according to the country's Interior Ministry.
 He also dismissed questions about his political legitimacy. 
 ''I'm going through an electoral process,'' he said. ''We have a very functioning democracy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shaukat Aziz, picked by Gen. Pervez Musharraf to be Pakistan's prime minister, is running for Parliament. (Photo by Akram Shahid/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); ETHICS (62%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Legislatures and Parliaments; Elections; Finances; Politics and Government ; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Ethics; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (91%) David Rohde; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf; Shaukat (Min) Aziz

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (69%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



550 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: In a Shift, Bush Moves to Block Medical Suits

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has been going to court to block lawsuits by consumers who say they have been injured by prescription drugs and medical devices.
 The administration contends that consumers cannot recover damages for such injuries if the products have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. In court papers, the Justice Department acknowledges that this position reflects a ''change in governmental policy,'' and it has persuaded some judges to accept its arguments, most recently scoring a victory in the federal appeals court in Philadelphia.
 Allowing consumers to sue manufacturers would ''undermine public health'' and interfere with federal regulation of drugs and devices, by encouraging ''lay judges and juries to second-guess'' experts at the F.D.A., the government said in siding with the maker of a heart pump sued by the widow of a Pennsylvania man. Moreover, it said, if such lawsuits succeed, some good products may be removed from the market, depriving patients of beneficial treatments. 
 In 2002, at a legal symposium, the Bush administration outlined plans for ''F.D.A. involvement in product liability lawsuits,'' and it has been methodically pursuing that strategy.
 The administration's participation in the cases is consistent with President Bush's position on ''tort reform.''
 Mr. Bush often attacks trial lawyers, saying their lawsuits impose a huge burden on the economy and drive up health costs. The Democrats' vice-presidential candidate, Senator John Edwards, a longtime plaintiffs' lawyer, says his proudest accomplishment in Washington was to help win Senate passage of a bill defining patients' rights, including the right to sue. (The bill never became law.)
 Jay P. Lefkowitz, former director of Mr. Bush's Domestic Policy Council, said the F.D.A.'s litigation strategy embodied ''good health policy and good tort reform.''
 But Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, Democrat of New York, said the administration had ''taken the F.D.A. in a radical new direction, seeking to protect drug companies instead of the public.'' Mr. Hinchey recently persuaded the House to cut $500,000 from the budget of the agency's chief counsel as a penalty for its aggressive opposition to consumer lawsuits.
 In the Pennsylvania ruling, issued Tuesday, the appeals court threw out a lawsuit filed by Barbara E. Horn, who said her husband had died because of defects in the design and manufacture of his heart pump. The Bush administration argued that federal law barred such claims because the device had been produced according to federal specifications. In its briefs, the administration conceded that ''the views stated here differ from the views that the government advanced in 1997,'' in the United States Supreme Court.
 At that time, the government said that F.D.A. approval of a medical device set the minimum standard, and that states could provide ''additional protection to consumers.'' Now the Bush administration argues that the agency's approval of a device ''sets a ceiling as well as a floor.''
 The administration said its position, holding that individual consumers have no right to sue, actually benefited consumers.
 The threat of lawsuits, it said, ''can harm the public health'' by encouraging manufacturers to withdraw products from the market or to issue new warnings that overemphasize the risks and lead to ''underutilization of beneficial treatments.''
 Allison M. Zieve, a lawyer at the Public Citizen Litigation Group who represented the plaintiff in the Pennsylvania case, said, ''The government has done an about-face on this issue.'' If courts accept the administration's position, Ms. Zieve said, it would amount to a backdoor type of ''tort reform'' that would shield manufacturers from damage suits.
 In the Pennsylvania case, the federal appeals court quoted extensively from the administration's brief and said the views of the F.D.A. were entitled to great deference because the agency was ''uniquely qualified'' to determine when federal law should supersede state law. 
 Bush administration officials said their goal was not to shield drug companies but to vindicate the federal government's authority to regulate drug products.
 Patients and their families said they felt betrayed.
 Kimberley K. Witczak of Minneapolis said her husband, Timothy, 37, committed suicide last year after taking the antidepressant drug Zoloft for five weeks. ''I do not believe in frivolous lawsuits,'' Ms. Witczak said, ''but it's ridiculous that the government is filing legal briefs on the side of drug companies when it's supposed to be protecting the public. My husband would be alive today if he had received adequate warnings about the risk of self-harm.'' Ms. Witczak sued Pfizer, the maker of Zoloft, in May. The government has not intervened in her case. 
 Thomas W. Woodward of North Wales, Pa., whose 17-year-old daughter committed suicide last year after taking Zoloft for a week, said, ''I've been sickened to see the government taking the side of pharmaceutical companies in court.'' Mr. Woodward has not filed a suit.
 Mr. Hinchey said that F.D.A. lawyers, led by the agency's chief counsel, Daniel E. Troy, had ''repeatedly interceded in civil suits on behalf of drug and medical device manufacturers.''
 Ms. Witczak, Mr. Woodward and Mr. Hinchey said Mr. Troy had a potential conflict of interest because Pfizer had been one of his clients when he was a lawyer in private practice.
 Mr. Troy refused to discuss the agency's legal arguments or the criticism of his role. Dr. Lester M. Crawford, the acting commissioner of food and drugs, said Mr. Troy had ''complied with the ethical requirement to recuse himself from any matter involving a past client for a year'' after he joined the government in August 2001.
 In its court filings, the Bush administration argues that private lawsuits threaten to disrupt a comprehensive nationwide system of drug regulation, and that federal standards pre-empt requirements established by state judges and legislators. In effect, the administration says, if a local judge or jury finds that a drug or device is unsafe, it is in direct conflict with the conclusion reached by the F.D.A. after years of rigorous testing and evaluation.
 Five of Mr. Troy's predecessors sent a letter to Congress dated July 15 endorsing his position. The government occasionally filed such briefs in the last 25 years, they said, but ''there is a greater need for F.D.A. intervention today because plaintiffs are intruding more heavily on F.D.A.'s primary jurisdiction than ever before.''
 Some judges and legal experts disagree. Erwin Chemerinsky, a constitutional law scholar at the Duke University School of Law, said, ''The Supreme Court has expressly ruled that F.D.A. regulation does not pre-empt state law and local regulation'' in all cases.
 In a Tennessee case involving a cardiac pacemaker, the Bush administration told a state trial court, ''It is inappropriate for a jury to second-guess F.D.A.'s scientific judgment on a matter that is within F.D.A.'s particular expertise.''
 If juries in different states reach different conclusions about the risks and benefits of a medical device, they will cause ''chaos for the regulated industry and F.D.A.,'' the administration said.
 The administration has also joined Pfizer in opposing a lawsuit filed by Flora Motus, a California woman who said her husband had committed suicide after taking Zoloft. Mrs. Motus argued that Pfizer had not adequately warned doctors and patients that the drug could increase the risk of suicide.
 But the Bush administration said that when federal officials approved Zoloft, they saw no need for such a warning, and that a false or unnecessary warning could ''deprive patients of beneficial, possibly life-saving treatment.'' Susan B. Bro, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, said last week, ''There is no scientific evidence of a causal relationship between Zoloft and suicide.''
 Likewise, the administration intervened in a California case to help GlaxoSmithKline fend off consumer demands for restrictions on Paxil advertising. The government said the restrictions ''would overly deter use of a life-improving medication.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); DAMAGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TORTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JUDGES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); US FDA APPROVALS (77%); TORT REFORM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); BUDGETS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%) Medicine and Health; Liability for Products; Suits and Litigation; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: MAURICE D HINCHEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Maurice D (Rep) Hinchey

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



551 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 15; Column 3; Boston 2004; PAST IS PROLOGUE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Advice From a Veteran of the Barricades

BYLINE: By TOM HAYDEN. 
Tom Hayden, an antiwar leader during the 1960's, left the California Legislature in 2000. He is the author of ''Street Wars: Gangs and the Future of Violence'' (New Press, 2004).

 BODY:
THE broad peace-and-justice movement, whose members hit the streets in huge numbers on the eve of the Iraq war, has been mostly submerged in the Democratic campaigns of Howard Dean, Dennis Kucinich and John Kerry, its passions aimed at removing George W. Bush from the White House. But during the nominating conventions -- especially the Republican one -- activists will return to the streets.
 In Boston, while some demonstrators are likely to engage in street protests or theater, thousands more will gather in forums that parallel the Democratic convention, rather than confronting it. (Security and police picketing may cause more disruption). This is not Chicago 1968, when a Democrat was president and the Vietnam War was raging. This year, the Democrats are the out-of-office party, fostering the hope (or illusion) that things will be different if they return to office. 
 Not that peace activists are happy with the Kerry campaign's march into ''muscular internationalism,'' whatever that is. But the consensus, even among many of the most radical, is that Mr. Kerry deserves to be pressured constructively while President Bush needs to be confronted.
 Next month's Republican convention in New York, however, could be Chicago 1968 all over again.
 The Bush team angered many New Yorkers with its selection of a convention site and date, choices that appeared intended to exploit the pain and patriotism still swirling after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 Many liberals who abhor Mr. Bush may hope that the protesters are polite, well groomed and law abiding, but conformity is not in the cards. Since the protests at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999, there has arisen a new Continental Army, imaginative and largely nonviolent, that intends to complicate -- or even stop -- business as usual for those they perceive as illegitimate and unelected war makers. (Long ago, Mr. Kerry was briefly one of these rag-tag winter soldiers, and was arrested with fellow veterans.) Neatly scrubbed protesters will be ignored by the media in any event.
 Some worry that these protests will help the president. Maybe, briefly. But it seems a bit late for him to posture on law and order against war protesters. Burdened with Iraq and the economy, he will probably have a hard time diverting public attention to war resisters.
 Having served in a legislature for 18 years, I think this new street army underestimates the possibilities of electoral politics and gradual change. Feeling desperate in 1968, I made a similar underestimation. I did not expect the reforms of the Democratic Party that grew between 1968 and 1972, or the Watergate scandal that arose from Richard M. Nixon's overreaction to us.
 Still, I admire the brains and courage of the protesters at the barricades at a time when many Americans are dominated by fear. The burden is on our political leadership to show us how much social change is possible through government.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Hayden, microphone in hand, during a protest in 1968. (Photograph courtesy of Tom Hayden) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); VETERANS (78%); RIOTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); ARRESTS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues ; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DENNIS KUCINICH (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Tom Hayden

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Boston (Mass); New York City; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



552 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: The Red Sox Finally Find That Everything Adds Up

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
DESPERATION revealed the length of its reach yesterday when the Red Sox' catcher-turned-bouncer, Jason Varitek, decided to punch a hole in the mystique of the Yankees' precious superstar-turned-potty mouth, Alex Rodriguez.
 The many layers of this retribution began as a choreographed scene from baseball's culture of arrested development. 
 In the third inning, Boston pitcher Bronson Arroyo zipped a fastball into the shoulder blade of Friday night's New York lifesaver, A-Rod, the same coveted player the Red Sox lost to the Yankees in an off-season love triangle.
 Naturally, Rodriguez glared at Arroyo, and Arroyo glowered at Rodriguez as the dance of the immature rivals unfolded in classic form. 
 Then a meddler appeared. Whether to protect his pitcher, or, more likely, to inspire his listless mates, Varitek stepped in to intercept a few expletives flying out of A-Rod's mouth. 
 An instant later, Varitek planted an arm the size of a sewer pipe into A-Rod's Crest-white teeth. With his catcher's mask still on -- an unmanly sight in the Red Sox' world of ''Cowboy Up'' -- Varitek put a claw hold on Rodriguez's face, provoking a free-for-all that left everyone channeling Don Zimmer at Fenway Park.
 The Yankees mixed it up to preserve their tough-guy credibility, while the Red Sox took a few cathartic swings at frustration before an improbable release at the end. 
 With a swashbuckler's swipe through Mariano Rivera's devilish cutters, Bill Mueller unleashed a game-winning two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth to send Red Sox Nation into delirium with an 11-10 tension-reliever.
 Feel better, Red Sox? 
 A night earlier, after the Red Sox rallied only to buckle on A-Rod's winning hit, Boston's self-proclaimed leader, Curt Schilling, had questioned the consistency of his team's effort.
 ''It shouldn't take the New York Yankees and their aura to get that kind of game out of us,'' he said.
 Finally, the sweet sound of agitation. From those inside the Boston clubhouse to the radio listeners along the Mass Pike, people had been waiting for someone to shake each Red Sox -- including its daydream believer, Manny Ramirez -- out of their daze.
 Now Varitek has joined Schilling. Now someone else in Boston red seemed to care.
 ''I play the game with emotion, doesn't matter what I do,'' Varitek said. 
 ''I hate to have a fight incite more emotion.''
 Is attitude the answer, though? Have the Red Sox' inconsistencies this season been rooted in their players' demeanors or their front-office ideology?
 In a season when the befuddled Red Sox curse slayers have employed legendary stat theorists to paint championship visions by numbers, they have encountered only grand illusions in Crayola. 
 In a year when the sincere caretakers of the Red Sox brought in character analysts to dissect the eccentric minds in their midst, Boston has become the El Camino of organizations -- half car, half truck, a hybrid of ambiguity.
 Exhibiting all the authority of a substitute teacher, Manager Terry Francona gently spelled out his team's ambiguity yesterday when he tried to explain how Boston isn't built to sweat effort.
 ''We're not fast,'' Francona said. ''On the nights we don't hit, we look flatter than we are.
 ''Our goal is to always have tremendous intensity,'' he continued, ''but when it looks like maybe we don't, it's a derivative of the way'' the team is put together.
 There is some wisdom in Francona's convoluted excuse. 
 General Manager Theo Epstein and Boston's owner, John Henry, built their team from the ''Moneyball'' blueprint, loading up on hitters without regard to the nuance of gritty small ball, seduced by on-base percentage while minimizing fielding percentage.
 The flaw in that philosophy was exposed in the seventh inning yesterday when the Red Sox made three consecutive errors in front of a home crowd almost too numbed by the history of ignominy to muster a heartfelt hiss.
 If Varitek's scrape with A-Rod inspired the Red Sox, it was a delayed reaction. 
 From Innings 4 through 8, the Red Sox looked equal parts powerful and pathetic.
 Apparently, there is no room for gray on the computer printouts. It's a black and white, all-or-nothing plan that may work in another division (see the Oakland A's). But as the Red Sox have discovered, it's difficult to outsmart money. 
 ''There are certain economics of life that we all have to live with,'' the Boston president, Larry Lucchino, said. ''But I think you underestimate the Yankees. They have a gigantic market from which they operate, but they also make a lot of sane and sensible and important baseball decisions.''
 Diplomatic, but money makes a difference. 
 Two years ago, financial concerns hamstrung the Red Sox in their pursuit of Bartolo Colon. With Colon, would the Red Sox have been playing last year's fateful Game 7 against the Yankees at Fenway instead of on George Steinbrenner's home field? 
 Boston's money limitations also created a threshold for negotiations with the Rangers during the off-season in the deal that would have, in effect, jettisoned Nomar Garciaparra and Ramirez for Rodriguez. 
 In the trickle down of their short-sighted flirtation, the Red Sox watched the Yankees grab Rodriguez, leaving them with Ramirez's bat and batty ways and the residue of Garciaparra's bitterness.
 At times, Nomar's anger has been a drag on the team's fluctuating attitude and its numbers-based ideology. He reacted to the Red Sox' courtship with A-Rod like a human: he was hurt.
 Emotions work both ways for the Red Sox. Varitek retaliated against the Yankees' aura with an act of desperation; Mueller reacted with a home run of inspiration. 
 But on a team assembled by the numbers, emotion may not be nearly as relevant as ideology.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A brawl with the Yankees in the third inning yesterday showed that the Red Sox had some fight left in them. (Photo by Winslow Townson/Associated Press)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) Boston Red Sox; New York Yankees

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (92%) Selena Roberts; Jason Varitek; Alex Rodriguez

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



553 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2461 words

HEADLINE: In a Hot Market, Everyone Wants To Be a Developer

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
SO you doubled your money on your condo and you think it's time to start your own real estate dynasty. Or perhaps you just want to build something both beautiful and substantial, a graceful blend of brick, steel and glass, that will make you both proud and rich.
 If you hear the inner voice of the master builder inside you, you are not alone. At this boom time in the real estate market, there is a pack of first-time developers on the hunt for vacant land and development sites, babbling about prices per square foot, and for better or for worse, struggling to do the deal of their dreams. 
 There are real estate brokers weary of doing deals for other people, lawyers with a yen for adventure, exiles from Wall Street, doctors, businessmen and artists getting into the game. While they may not yet be ready to go toe to toe with Donald Trump or Larry Silverstein, some have gotten some dirt under their fingernails and experienced the fears and thrills of real estate development. 
 This new frenzy of interest may be a sign of the enduring strength of the New York real estate market. But some developers say it could also be a contrarian indicator suggesting that the market may be getting just a little too hot. Remember, they say, when thousands of people quit their jobs to become day traders, just before the Internet stock bubble burst a few years back.
 ''We are seeing new faces,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, which represents the interests of the big-time Manhattan developers and real estate institutions. ''There is a great deal of money available, and everyone believes that New York is an investment that can't lose.'' 
 In Brooklyn, a sculptor and installation artist, Cosimo Cavallaro, who once made a two-hour film of a burning piano, and covered a house, a hotel room and the model Twiggy with cheese all in the name of art (his Web site is www.cosimocavallaro.com), spends his time noodling with his architect, Marvin H. Meltzer, and prospecting for financial partners. 
 Mr. Cavallaro, a Canadian who in an earlier life made what he calls a small fortune in television commercials, wants to convert his home and studio in a former bakery on Kent Avenue, a few steps from the Williamsburg Bridge, into an 11-story luxury apartment tower, with dramatic views that he hopes will also make a significant artistic statement. 
 ''I want to build something that is beautiful; I can't build a thorn in the sky,'' he said with a sigh. 
 The building he envisions would be called the Punctilio, a tower of glass rising out of the remnants of his current brick building, with one 2,000-square-foot apartment on each floor, topped by a deck with a pool. He hopes to sell the apartments for at least $800 a square foot, or $1.6 million each. But he still hasn't decided whether to put in a garden on the ground floor or commercial space.
 In Queens, Mitch Perl, a former nightclub owner and commercial real estate broker, borrowed money from friends and relatives to complete the purchase of a five-story factory building in Glendale, on the edge of a neighborhood of 16-foot-wide row houses, and the Cypress Hills Cemetery. 
 Now he and his partner, Richard Bronsky, an old friend and contractor, spend most of their waking hours supervising the construction of 68 condominiums in the factory building and a new three-story building they are putting up beside it, constantly refining the finish and details. They are making a big bet -- that spacious condos priced at under $400,000 will sell in a neighborhood of small 16-foot-wide Archie Bunker-like houses that go for $450,000 up and where condominiums are all but unknown. 
 ''Our hardest job is going to be educating buyers on what condos are,'' Mr. Perl said. ''At first I thought we would do TriBeCa-style lofts, and then as I educated myself I realized the market was 100 percent local and people wanted something else.''
 Mr. Perl decided to change careers once again, when he got tired, he said, of ''knocking at people's doors trying to convince them how to make money.'' In one deal, he said, he struggled to persuade investors to buy a 22-story office building in Midtown Manhattan, where many leases for below-market rents would soon be coming due. When he finally found a purchaser, he said, the buyer was quickly able to refinance his investment and take out ''tens of millions of dollars more'' than the $38 million purchase price.
 And in Manhattan, Harris Barer, a real estate lawyer who spent 40 years cautiously advising clients about the mechanics and due diligence of development, found himself strangely at sea when he decided to do his own project. He bought land on Essex Street on the Lower East Side, not far from where his father once manned a pushcart, and in three nerve-wracking years put up a seven-story apartment complex, with an entrance that opens into a large inner courtyard surrounded by private interior balconies.
 ''In New York, this is an exercise of more guts than brains,'' he said. ''There is no way you can control the situation, but if it works out right, you can make a substantial amount of money.''
 There is also the psychoanalyst looking to buy a garage on Fourth Avenue in Park Slope. And there is Drew F. Bizzoco, a Brooklyn chiropractor, who still tends to his patients by day but in his spare time prospects for real estate deals and manages the books of a company, Babe Builders, he recently founded with three old friends. 
 Mr. Bizzoco and his group are completing their first project, five attached two-family houses in East New York. The houses are not yet complete, but they have all been sold for about $440,000 each, about 30 percent more than was expected when the project began last winter. Their architect, Harry R. Simino, is drawing up plans for another project, a six-story apartment building on the edge of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.
 Doing a development deal, especially outside of the rarefied world of Manhattan high-rise development, might not seem especially complex: you find a property, develop an idea that can get past the New York City Department of Buildings, draw up a marketing plan, do a feasibility study and a financial analysis. If you end up with enough projected revenue to make a nifty profit, with a little extra as a margin of safety, with a bit of luck it can work. 
 After all, everyone has to start somewhere. As Mr. Spinola noted, the Milstein brothers began as tile contractors, and other major developers began as small-time building owners or as brokers. 
 But in practice new developers need to develop many skills rapidly or find professional guidance or partners. Banks are willing to lend money these days, even to new developers, but they are likely to be asked to put up large amounts of their own money and assume considerable personal financial risk. They also have to be ready to cope with a thousand things that can go wrong.
 Yet the biggest difference between the old and new, many developers say, is that the newcomers have never experienced the pain of a faltering economy and plummeting real estate markets. 
 ''With prices moving up, you don't have to be a genius to make money in real estate,'' said Jeffrey E. Levine, president of Levine Builders, who has been in the business for 25 years. ''Back in 2000 you didn't have to be a genius to make money in stocks, you threw a dart at a stock table and you made money.'' 
 Mr. Levine said that newer developers can run into ''more difficulty of execution'' than older professionals, and have to be reminded that ''all markets that go up can go down.''
 ''Intelligent fear inhibits many developers from doing some type of projects,'' he said. ''New developers have no fear because they have never experienced the dark side.''
 R. Randy Lee, a lawyer and developer from Staten Island and chairman of the Building Industry Association of New York City, said that new ''hobby builders,'' typically tradesmen or contractors, have been ''giving a black eye'' to the industry, because of their inexperience and mistakes. 
 But he said things would only get worse in a downturn. ''The hobby home builders will thin out as the market gets tough,'' he said. ''It is a winnowing process. The first people to fall will be the inexperienced and undercapitalized new people in the market.''
 Yet D. Kenneth Patton, associate dean and director of the New York University's Real Estate Institute, is more upbeat. He said that enrollment in a master's program in real estate had doubled in the last three and a half years, to 500 students from 250, as refugees from the technology boom, architects, lawyers and construction people sought to sharpen their real estate skills.
 He argues it is not too late to make money in real estate development, because the real estate market has changed. A surge of interest in the boroughs outside Manhattan and nearby suburbs has created opportunities for young ambitious developers. ''Gentrification and smart growth have taken a lot of sows' ears and turned them into silk purses,'' Mr. Patton said. ''Manhattan still belongs to the big guys, but outside Manhattan it is no longer an insider's game.''
 However, at a weeklong N.Y.U. seminar this month in development process, Stephen P. Peca, a principal at the Concourse Realty Group, a consulting firm, provided a more cautious perspective to the 35 people who paid $1,700 each to attend. He said that right now he advises people to sit on the sidelines and wait for a break in prices as interest rates rise. ''We are at the very top of the real estate market, there are no discounts in the market right now,'' he said. ''Prices will be lower in 18 months.''
 Mr. Meltzer, a partner in Meltzer/Mandl Architects, has developed a small niche in working with new developers. He is working not only with Mr. Cavallaro, the sculptor, but also with Mr. Barer and several others. He finds their openness refreshing, compared with some more experienced developers who know exactly what to do, and want to do it in the cheapest way possible. 
 ''I find they come in without preconceived ideas, with much more open minds in terms of design and solutions to problems,'' he said. ''Good design is good business.''
 But Mr. Meltzer and his partner, David Mandl, say they attract the new class of developers because they have done it all and are able to advise clients about the ins and outs of the development as well.
 ''We were both in development, too,'' Mr. Meltzer said. But it turns out that both architects lost their appetite for the risk of development when the real estate market collapsed and financing disappeared in the mid-1980's. 
 Mr. Barer's Lower East Side project was in the end a success. All 22 apartments and three retail and commercial spaces are now occupied, with renters paying up to $5,500 a month for two-story town-house-style units. The lot, which extends from Essex to Ludlow Streets, allowed Mr. Meltzer to design interior balconies for all apartments that front on the interior garden.
 But the project was an extraordinary roller-coaster ride for Mr. Barer, from the day, soon after he took title, that leaching hazardous waste was found under the site, to unexpected soil conditions that threatened to triple the cost of the foundation and steel structure. Then he had to fire the owner's representative he had hired to work with his contractor, because they couldn't get along. He fired the general contractor, too, when the job was falling hopelessly behind schedule.
 When the contractor filed a large lien, making it hard to extend the construction loan because of the delay, Mr. Barer and his partner, Barbara Rohregger, a broker, had to go back to their investors, all relatives, and make calls for additional money. For a time construction came to a halt. Rents in the area were depressed after the World Trade Center attack.
 ''We made three capital calls on our partners,'' he said. ''At Thanksgiving they were not saying, 'Pass the turkey,' they were saying, 'Pass us our money back.' You are a hero until you ask for additional money.''
 In the end, Mr. Barer said he was saved by falling interest rates that cut financing costs far below his projections, an innovative design that increased value, and the rising rents on the Lower East Side, all of which will assure his nephews and nieces a significant return on their investment.
 ''It is a nice building and everyone is happy,'' he said.
 But would he do it again? Mr. Barer is looking around for another project, but he is not sure. He said he has to balance the risks against the exhilaration and excitement of doing something new and different.
 In the meantime, he frequently fields calls from other would-be developers. ''People call us all the time for advice,'' he said. ''If you do one, they think you are a bloody marvel.''

The Best Training Is On the Job
 HAVING a background in real estate, reading books on real estate financing and attending courses can help a beginning developer but, according Harris Barer, a real estate lawyer and neophyte developer himself, it is not enough.
 ''It is useful, but it is not the real world,'' said Mr. Barer, who developed a commercial and residential project on the Lower East Side. ''I knew I didn't know much, but I didn't recognized how little I knew until I got started.''
 Both New York University and Baruch College have real estate programs, where courses in development, finance and construction are taught, and both programs have seen enrollments increase over the last few years as the real estate market has strengthened.
 ''There is a fever,'' said D. Kenneth Patton, associate dean and director of New York University's Real Estate Institute. ''I wouldn't call it a bubble, but there is a sense of opportunity that is infectious.''
 Henry Wollman, director of the Steven L. Newman Real Estate Institute at Baruch College, advised new developers to do their homework and start small. 
 ''Each step in the development process has pitfalls that can set you up for deep-seated failure,'' he said. ''Buy a house and renovate a house, on a tiny scale you will encounter every problem you can encounter on a bigger one, hopefully on a more manageable scale.''
 Mr. Barer says it takes something more than classroom experience. Working with more experienced partners to learn the ropes is one option. Another is to have the intestinal fortitude to set your ego aside and honestly confront the various risks in development, market risk, financial risk and construction risk. 
 Set aside a reserve in your financial plan for things that can go wrong, and then double and triple it. ''At the end of the day, none of those things are in your control, and if you think otherwise you are being self deceptive,'' he said. JOSH BARBANEL


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW DEVELOPERS -- The artist Cosimo Cavallaro, left, plans to develop a luxury apartment tower at the site of his Brooklyn home and studio. Harris Barer and Barbara Rohregger admire the view from their new development on Ludlow Street. (Photos by left, Librado Romero for The New York Times. Middle and right, Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Drawing (Illustration by Lou Beach)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%) Real Estate; Real Estate

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%) Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004



554 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today and an auction of four-week bills and 20.5-year inflation index note both tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.37 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was 1.70 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 1.21 percent. The current issue 20.5-year inflation index note was trading at a price to yield 1.90 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TOMORROW
 Grand Rapids, Mich., public schools, $90.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Los Angeles, $376.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Tacoma, Wash., $51.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

WEDNESDAY
 Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, $250 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 Virginia Public Building Authority, $205 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Infrastructure and Economic Development Authority, $500 million of debt securities. UBS.
 Chabot-Las Positas, Calif., $100 million of debt securities. RBC Dain Rauscher.
 Clark County, Nev., Airport, $370 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Cook County, Ill., $118.1 million of general obligation bonds. George K. Baum and Company.
 Cook County, Ill., $186.1 million of general obligation bonds. Loop Capital.
 Industrial Development Authority of Arlington County, Va., $61.5 million of lease revenue bonds for Virginia Capital projects. Morgan Keegan.
 Long Island, N.Y., Power Authority, $200 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
 New York State E.F.C., $230 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Philadelphia, $370 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. Wachovia Bank.
 Rhode Island Housing, $66.1 million of debt securities. UBS.
 Richmond, Va., Public Utility, $65.2 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (67%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); RY (TSX) (67%); RY (SWX) (67%); RY (NYSE) (67%); WFC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (70%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (70%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



555 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Emphasizing Jobs in Stadium Plan, Jets Woo Hispanics

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Taking a page from George E. Pataki's campaign for governor of New York, proponents of a stadium on the far West Side of Manhattan have been quietly courting Hispanic officials -- and by proxy, they hope, many of their constituents -- in search of support for their proposal. 
 In the past few months, the New York Jets football team has turned much of its focus on getting Hispanic leaders around the state to embrace its plan for a $1.4 billion stadium at 34th Street and the West Side Highway, using $600 million in public funds. 
 The team has hired two lobbyists who specialize in wooing Hispanic leaders and retained a consulting group chockablock with former Pataki officials seasoned in courting Hispanic voters. The focus extends in a somewhat more muted fashion to black leaders around the state. 
 The Jets owner, Woody Johnson, armed with full-scale pictures and graphics, has been showing up at Assembly offices around the state Capitol and at political dinners in the Bronx. Earlier this month, the team reached a deal with a Spanish-language radio station to broadcast games in Spanish, and said it would stage a fiesta this season at its existing stadium in the Meadowlands.
 The pitch is simple: the Jets estimate that building a new stadium, which would also serve as an extension of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, would produce 6,971 permanent jobs. Most would be in the construction and hotel and tourism industries, and elected officials are hoping that many of those jobs would go to blacks and Hispanics, who have been hit particularly hard by the economic slowdown.
 ''This project is about job creation,'' said the team's president, Jay Cross. ''We think that gets us out from underneath the 'sports team' argument that this is just a stadium.'' (The city's Independent Budget Office projects roughly half the team's estimate of jobs.)
 The team also hopes to blunt the loud and continuous criticism made by elected officials from the West Side that the stadium would be too costly and too intrusive with counterclaims by Hispanic and black officials. They also hope to have enough Hispanic officials on board that other politicians will be afraid to risk alienating Hispanic leaders who would rally behind the plan.
 ''This group is important because it is a counterweight to the local electeds,'' Mr. Cross said. ''It is important to get some support, and the most natural base is those who will benefit from the economic opportunity.'' 
 Gaining widespread support from minorities would be difficult, but the attempt is not surprising. Hispanics are an increasingly important voting block; through assiduous efforts, Mr. Pataki won a third of the Latino vote in 2002, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been desperately trying to gain inroads among those voters.
 It is too early to tell how well the strategy is faring. A Quinnipiac University poll released last week showed that 54 percent of New York voters support a stadium as long as the $600 million in public investment reaps a return; 64 percent of Hispanic voters polled supported that idea.
 In interviews with almost a dozen elected officials, community leaders and lobbyists, it was clear that the team had gained the support of a smattering of officials so far. 
 ''They are committed to making sure that the job pool is diverse,'' said Peter M. Rivera, a Bronx assemblyman who is behind the plan. ''I think it makes good business sense to incorporate us.''
 Fernando Mateo, president of Hispanics Across America and a longtime Pataki supporter, has also given the plan his nod.
 But there are plenty of leaders on the fence, or opposed. In a news release last week, Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, of upper Manhattan, called the plan an ''environmental nightmare waiting to happen.'' 
 Christine Quinn, a councilwoman from the West Side who has been a lynchpin in the opposition, said she doubted that the Jets would make inroads among minorities. ''It is going to be challenging for this proposal to end up with broad-based racially and economically diverse support,'' she said, ''because it is so focused on the economic interests of a few businesses and costing the taxpayer so much money.''
 Ms. Quinn and other elected officials, as well as many businesses and residents on the West Side, oppose various aspects of the plan, from its expenditure of taxpayer money, to expected traffic congestion, to the loss of some apartments. The owners of Madison Square Garden vehemently oppose the plan as well, and have spent millions of dollars on advertisements against the idea.
 But the Jets' efforts are equally intense, and expensive. Mr. Cross and Mr. Johnson have been making the rounds among members of the Black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic Legislative Caucus in Albany, and have appealed to many council members from around the city, like Hiram Monserrate and Joel Rivera. (Neither man returned numerous calls to their offices.) Bloomberg and Pataki administration officials have also been in constant contact with the team about its progress, according to members of both camps. 
 Jets officials attended an editorial board meeting at El Diario, and Mr. Johnson recently went to a Bronx Democratic meeting, where he walked around the room with his arm around the chairman of the group, Jose Rivera. From there, he headed to a fund-raiser at a restaurant in Harlem for Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, chairman of the New York State Association of Black and Puerto Rican Legislators. 
 ''The jury is out,'' Mr. Wright said. ''I think we could use a stadium in New York.''
 For $4,000 a month, the team has hired Alfredo Vidal, president of the Vidal Group, to lobby Hispanic leaders, and it had a similar deal with the Bill Lynch, a political strategist and deputy mayor under David N. Dinkins, to lobby black lawmakers, although Mr. Lynch has since joined John Kerry's campaign. Mr. Vidal said he had given numerous presentations, on ''the stadium, its benefits, the whole kit and caboodle.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Mateo, left, president of Hispanics Across America, supports a New York Jets stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. Woody Johnson, the team's owner, is busy courting officials. (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POLITICS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); LODGING (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TOURISM (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



556 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: In Tobacco Country, Growers Keep Their Fingers Crossed for a Windfall

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: EAGLE SPRINGS, N.C., July 19 

 BODY:
Squinting under the sunlight bouncing off fields thick with leafy green tobacco plants, John William Carter III listed some of the challenges faced by growers these days. He lamented the antismoking campaigns that have penetrated even the heart of tobacco country, the competitive threat posed by growers a hemisphere away in Brazil, even the recent lack of rain. 
 Yet on the first day of this year's harvest, as Mr. Carter oversaw a dozen of his laborers from Mexico unloading tobacco leaves into drying barns, his face lighted up when he discussed an undeniably bright spot. He is on the cusp of becoming a millionaire, now that the Senate has approved a $12 billion plan to compensate the owners of tobacco production quotas created by a Depression-era subsidy program. 
 ''I expect to get in excess of a million dollars when all is said and done, knock on wood,'' said Mr. Carter, 43, a third-generation tobacco farmer known as Billy. He said about half of the money would help him retire debt, with the rest going to pay taxes or to future farming ventures. ''I've waited and sweated for this moment for a very long time,'' he said. 
 Mr. Carter, whose farm is in the Sand Hills region of North Carolina, near the South Carolina border, is one of thousands who stand to benefit from the tobacco buyout, including many who have never set foot on a tobacco farm and some who live as far away as Iceland, Japan and Guam. The biggest payouts would go to those who collected the most quotas, in a system that evolved over six decades so that the quotas, created to artificially enhance the value of tobacco production during the Depression by controlling the amount of tobacco grown, could be traded or inherited.
 Farmers get quota allotments each year, in a program intended to increase prices by restricting supply. But with demand for tobacco declining in the United States, the quotas' value has also been falling, contributing to the problems of areas that remain dependent on growing tobacco. 
 No state stands to be more transformed by the buyout than North Carolina, the nation's largest tobacco-producing state, which is expected to receive the most money, perhaps more than $4 billion. Expectations of a windfall have generated optimism in rural areas throughout the state and among opponents of smoking, who until recently had considered tobacco cultivation a source of anguish instead of riches.
 ''Not everybody should have wide grins about this, but it is a step in the right direction of unwinding tobacco in this country,'' said Dr. Anthony J. DeLucia, a former chairman of the America Lung Association and a professor of surgery at East Tennessee State University. ''Hopefully, some of this money will allow some of the most ailing communities in the tobacco states to diversify out of tobacco in a healthy way.''
 But while opponents of smoking who support the buyout consider it a step toward scratching out tobacco in the United States, large farmers and agricultural experts actually expect domestic tobacco output to climb if there is a buyout. Production of flue-cured tobacco, the dominant variety in North Carolina, could rise to as much as 450 million to 500 million pounds a year from the current level of about 300 million, according to Blake Brown, a tobacco economist at North Carolina State University. 
 Abolishing the quota system would remove the cost of buying and renting quotas, a move expected to allow tobacco growers to compete more efficiently against foreign producers like Brazil, which in the 1990's overtook the United States as the largest tobacco exporter. Concern over foreign competition has increased among tobacco growers in recent years; the Department of Agriculture says the content of foreign tobacco used in cigarettes manufactured in the United States has climbed to its highest level, nearly 50 percent. 
 A buyout would enable many of the ailing smaller growers to leave the business, extending a consolidation that has been under way for several years. Mr. Brown said he expected the overall number of tobacco farms in North Carolina to decline by 50 percent if a buyout is carried out. Some farmers say a buyout would give them some peace of mind after years of seeing their way of life start to wither away. 
 Marion Pridgen, a tobacco farmer in Wilson, a community about 40 miles east of Raleigh, farms only 200 acres today, compared with 800 acres in 1997. If a buyout does not materialize, he said, he will probably have to go on welfare because of the dwindling value of his quotas. 
 ''I'll try to continue farming, but there's now the allure of getting out with a little bit of dignity,'' said Mr. Pridgen, 59, who said he expected to receive about $202,000 from a buyout. ''This is just compensation for someone like myself who's spent the last 40 years farming. It gives me a little more hope.'' 
 Critics of the buyout plan, however, point out that many of the recipients would be absentee quota owners, many of whom have had little or no involvement in tobacco farming. 
 For instance, Susan O'Leary, 49, a homemaker who lives in Exeter, N.H., expects to receive about $119,000 for a quota related to a tobacco farm her father invested in when she was a child in Henderson, N.C. Ms. O'Leary, however, barely remembers visiting the farm, and today, as an opponent of smoking, says she has ''a bit of a guilty feeling whenever I receive income from the quota.''
 ''Tobacco farming hasn't been an important part of my life, but I could certainly use the money with a child starting college this year,'' she said. 
 In addition to paying domestic recipients like Ms. O'Leary, the tobacco buyout would also give quota owners in 16 countries and 4 United States territories a total of nearly $1 million, according to an environmental organization's study of the buyout plan approved earlier this year by the House of Representatives.
 Still, the biggest beneficiaries are expected to be large or medium-size growers that have rapidly expanded in the last few years by acquiring the operations of ailing competitors.
 More than 430,000 quota holders would receive some money, but at the top of the buyout list are 462 individuals, estates and companies, including farmers like Mr. Carter, who are likely to receive $1 million or more, the nonprofit Environmental Working Group, which conducted the study, says. The ultimate payouts may even be higher, since the Senate's tobacco buyout plan includes about $3 billion more than the House plan. Senate and House negotiators will meet in the weeks ahead to try to reach a compromise that can win White House approval. 
 The Senate's tobacco plan -- which won the endorsement of 78 senators, including many from leading tobacco-producing states, and of Philip Morris USA, the nation's largest tobacco company -- would allow the Food and Drug Administration to regulate tobacco for the first time. The inclusion of federal regulation helped win the support of antismoking senators.
 At the heart of both the Senate and House plans is the perception of a need to compensate tobacco growers for quotas that are falling in value as smoking rates decline and tobacco imports climb. That point has been driven home throughout North Carolina, where production of flue-cured tobacco has fallen by nearly half since 1997. 
 ''If you erase the value of the quotas, which was the scenario we'd been facing, there will be bankruptcies and havoc,'' said Larry Wooten, the president of the North Carolina Farm Bureau, who is himself a quota holder and expects to receive at least $165,000 from the buyout. 
 The Senate's plan, however, differs markedly from the House's by financing the buyout through levies on cigarette manufacturers instead of using cigarette tax money that otherwise would go to the federal treasury. The R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the nation's second-largest cigarette manufacturer and one of North Carolina's largest employers, opposes much of the Senate plan. 
 David Howard, a spokesman for R.J. Reynolds in Winston-Salem, said the Senate plan would require the company to pay $550 million in the first year of the buyout, the equivalent of about 75 percent of its earnings before taxes for 2004. Opponents of the buyout, however, are largely drowned out in North Carolina by supporters like Mr. Carter.
 Mr. Carter is aware of the changes washing over the tobacco business in his corner of North Carolina. On one side of Eagle Springs, which is little more than a shuttered filling station and a few homes on the side of the Aberdeen, Carolina & Western Railroad, developers from Raleigh have been acquiring small tobacco farms to build golf courses, executive retreats and horse farms. On the other side, ailing textile companies and smaller tobacco growers have absorbed the brunt of a dreary rural economy. 
 ''Now that a settlement is almost here, I have a little trepidation,'' Mr. Carter said. ''I feel like we might finally get our due, but will it be enough to confront the reality that awaits us?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Carter says that if the buyout happens, he will receive more than $1 million.
 Marion Pridgen, a tobacco farmer in Wilson, N.C., says he may have to go on welfare if a federal buyout does not materialize. Workers gathered tobacco last week on John William Carter III's farm in Eagle Springs, N.C. (Photographs by Bruce R. Feeley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO FARMING (93%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); SMOKING (89%); FAMILY FARMS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Smoking and Tobacco; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Quotas; Smoking and Tobacco

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); ICELAND (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



557 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Trade Talks in Geneva Offer More Hope This Time

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 25 

 BODY:
Just as officials from leading industrial nations thought that they were closing in on a new global trade pact in the Mexican resort of Cancun last year, African delegates led a walkout, saying that the rich countries had little interest in making life fairer for the world's poorest farmers.
 Cheered by globalization opponents delighted that the talks had fallen apart, the Africans were bitterly chided by the top United States trade official. 
 How times have changed. In an effort to salvage a deal from the ashes, trade officials from the rich economies have frequently consulted with the African countries -- as well as Brazil, India and other large developing nations -- in advance of new talks scheduled to begin here on Tuesday.
 That is only one of several promising signs suggesting that a compromise may finally be reached aimed at bringing developing nations more fully into the world's trading system and providing a lift to the global economy. 
 While most attention in the United States this week will be focused on the Democratic National Convention, international trade officials will be working away from the glare of publicity to come up with a deal here. To succeed, they will have to satisfy developing countries that the Europeans and the United States are really ready to reduce their subsidies and artificial supports for their own farmers. That is the quid pro quo for persuading the third world to open new markets to the goods and services produced in the industrial nations.
 With confidence in the fairness of global trade being tested, world leaders say the meetings are crucial. If they fail, this would put the entire round of trade negotiations in doubt. It could also raise larger questions about the value of the World Trade Organization, especially among members of Congress unhappy over W.T.O. rulings against American trade laws on grounds that they violate global rules on protectionism.
 Success in Geneva will turn on agriculture, the key to this round. As a result of some major changes over the last 10 months, there is a much better chance that a deal will be brokered.
 The greatest impetus is the W.T.O. case won last month by Brazil, with the backing of China, India and other big developing countries, finding that cotton subsidies in the United States unfairly distorted world trade and put farmers in poor countries at a disadvantage. While the ruling is on appeal, it is forcing rich nations to consider how to overhaul their agricultural subsidies before they are declared illegal.
 For the world's two most prominent trade officials, this may be the last chance to show that they can get a new global trade round up and running. Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, and Pascal Lamy, the European trade commissioner, have been traveling worldwide to seal a successful world trade deal. 
 Mr. Lamy's term ends in October, and Mr. Zoellick's tenure may be short lived, too, depending on whether Mr. Bush wins the November election.
 ''The disposition of everyone this time around is to deal -- to deal and discuss and get an agreement at the end of July,'' said Arancha Gonzalez, the spokeswoman for Mr. Lamy.
 Unlike Cancun, which was a full-blown conference with huge teams of negotiators and hangers-on, the meeting here this week at the headquarters of the World Trade Organization is to be a low-key affair. Few will be in attendance other than the permanent representatives at the W.T.O. and some of the trade ministers of member countries.
 Europe, in a reversal of its usual position on farm subsidies, is no longer hunkered down, while the United States, which in the past tended to blame Europeans for intransigence, is on defense.
 Seeing the writing on the wall, the European Union gave in to demands of poor nations this year and, while retaining other features of its Common Agriculture Policy, has offered to eliminate all export subsidies for farm goods.
 But the United States has made no public offer to reduce its cotton subsidies. Instead, it has invited officials from four African nations to visit Washington for additional talks. 
 Begun three years ago in Qatar and known as the Doha round after Qatar's capital, this series of negotiations was supposed to finally help developing countries build their own farm trade by reducing the $300 billion in subsidies and supports that the wealthiest nations provide their own farmers.
 Those subsidies -- more than the domestic output of sub-Saharan Africa -- make it nearly impossible for farmers in poor countries to compete against subsidized imports, losing out in their own markets and with little chance of exporting.
 Last year's conference broke up in part because the African nations were disheartened by the United States' refusal to reduce its $3 billion a year in subsidies for cotton, a crop that plays a big role in efforts by developing nations to connect with the garment industry, a toehold on the ladder of industrial development.
 While the United States has not offered a reduction in subsidies, the spokesman for Mr. Zoellick, Richard Mills, said it ''understands and recognizes the sensitivity and importance of cotton'' for the African nations. He suggested that a solution might be cutting tariffs on cotton. Mr. Mills said that among his other efforts to push along the talks, Mr. Zoellick deserved credit for persuading the Europeans to agree to eliminate their export subsidies.
 ''We made clear no deal would be possible without their elimination,'' he said.
 Mr. Lamy, in his tenure as trade commissioner, has helped persuade the European Union to begin the politically difficult process of reducing subsidies to farmers that lead to overproduction and the flooding of world markets with cheap food. Instead, agriculture payments are slowly shifting to support for the environment, animal welfare and rural development.
 Indeed, the Europeans have begun reducing support for sugar production before the W.T.O. rules in a second case brought by Brazil, this one against the European Union for its sugar subsidies.
 It has been tougher for Mr. Zoellick. The 2002 farm bill approved by the Bush administration sharply increased agricultural subsidies just as a cutback in them was being debated in the new trade round. Since then, Mr. Zoellick, pressed for time because of the coming election, has had to thread his way between competing domestic and trade interests. The influential farm and agribusiness lobby wants to preserve the $19 billion in annual payments, and many of the states most heavily dependent on farm subsidies are ones that Mr. Bush is counting on in November. 
 Pedro de Camargo Neto, Brazil's former deputy agriculture minister, who initiated the W.T.O. suits on cotton and sugar, said, ''I would not have believed it, but in agriculture it is now Europe that is for free trade, not the U.S.'' 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, disputed that, saying the United States had given up as much as it could so far. If the Africans and other developing nations wanted the United States to reduce its subsidies, he said, they would have to provide greater market access in return.
 ''What we need to be talking about is what is at stake,'' Senator Grassley said. ''If this process fails, there won't be another development round, there won't be another round at all. It's a no-brainer.''
 The negotiations began informally after diplomats at the W.T.O. agreed to the draft of an agreement. The document includes positions on opening markets for industrial goods and services, as well as on how to facilitate trade and other questions.
 But it is agriculture that will make or break the meeting.
 Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and the ranking minority member of the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee, said it was not just Mr. Zoellick who needs to come back with some progress from Geneva.
 He predicted that the world trade body would broker a deal, however vague, if only to avoid another embarrassing failure. 
 ''The odds are good,'' he said, ''that they'll declare some kind of victory without any real success.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brazil's victory in a trade case on U.S. cotton subsidies emphasized the crop's crucial nature in developing economies. A worker stored cotton north of Sao Paulo. (Photo by Alexandre Meneghini/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 A technician at a textile factory in Ivory Coast with bobbins of cotton thread. Civil war has disrupted output. (Photo by Georges Gobet/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); RESORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); LEGISLATION (67%) International Trade and World Market; Third World and Developing Countries; Agriculture; Protectionism (Trade); Crop Controls and Subsidies; Law and Legislation ; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (56%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); BRAZIL (94%); EUROPE (93%); AFRICA (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



558 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Photo-sharing Web sites have a place for your pictures in their digital albums, alongside messages from advertisers.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
CAN'T get anyone to peruse the 50 family photos from your new digital camera? Internet companies would love to see them.
 As digital cameras continue their sales boom, Web sites have found an increasingly attractive business helping consumers share their photos with friends and family. 
 Earlier this month, two online photo-sharing services were bought within a 24-hour period. The technology publisher CNET Networks will pay $70 million for a longtime market leader, Webshots, and Google paid an undisclosed amount for a relative newcomer, Picasa. 
 The announcements came on the heels of a series of improvements from Yahoo Photos that have helped it leapfrog Webshots as the Internet leader in photo sharing.
 Why all the activity? Analysts said a resurgence in the online advertising market had helped, along with a seemingly insatiable consumer appetite for digital photography.
 ''The digital camera adoption rate continues to defy expectations,'' said Chris Chute, an analyst with the research and consulting firm IDC, who predicted digital camera sales would reach 25 million this year. Including the 27 million camera phones that are expected to sell this year, at least a third of American households will be able to take digital photos by year's end.
 Mr. Chute said that 28 percent of digital-camera owners share their pictures over the Internet and that cellphones and devices connected to home networks, for instance, would facilitate photo sharing.
 Some online photo sites have had a surge in visitors in the last year, according to comScore Media Metrix, an Internet measurement firm, while others have leveled off. Yahoo and Webshots have had marginal declines in visitors, while Kodak's Ofoto.com, District Photo's Snapfish.com and Shutterfly.com, based in Redwood City, Calif., attracted 25 percent to 30 percent more visitors. 
 What is more, the value of those visitors has increased as the demand for online advertising has intensified.
 Executives said those audience sizes are enticing enough for marketers to open their checkbooks. Narendra Rocherolle, co-chief executive of Webshots, said one reason Webshots chose CNET over other suitors was that it could help the company reach more well-known advertisers, because it already has long-term relationships with advertisers like Canon and Sony. Webshots said it was profitable and expected to generate $12 million to $13 million in revenue this year, half from advertising and the remainder from selling premium online services and photo prints. CNET said it expected overall revenues for Webshots to grow by at least a third next year.
 Webshots, like several other photo-sharing sites, lets consumers upload their digital photos to a Web page on the site, free of charge. From there, users create albums, then e-mail invitations for others to look. 
 Unlike some other sites, Webshots allows users to post their albums publicly, for others to download if they wish. The site's 14 million users have posted more than 60 million photos for others to see. ''So if you want to go on vacation, you can find very detailed photos that you wouldn't see at other travel Web sites,'' Mr. Rocherolle said. (Several Webshots employees scan the site for inappropriate content.)
 This is actually the second time that Webshots' owners have sold the company. In 1999, Excite@Home bought it for $82.5 million in stock, only to sell it back to the three co-founders in early 2002 for $2.4 million. The latest deal is another sign that good ideas that were simply premature during the dot-com boom are winning favor now that the Internet economy is strengthening.
 Shelby Bonnie, chairman and chief executive of CNET Networks, said most of the Webshots audience had not yet visited CNET's sites, which include GameSpot.com, MP3.com and CNET.com, among others. With Webshots visitors viewing 20 million pages daily, Mr. Bonnie said: ''That's a lot of additional ad inventory for us.''
 Webshots has faced increasingly stiff competition from Yahoo, which has in recent months rolled out a number of new features to enable users to share their photos more easily and decreased the number of places where advertisements appear. 
 Late last year, Yahoo began a service that allows users to view their photos on wireless phones. ''So instead of dad pulling out his wallet for pictures, you can do it all electronically,'' Jeff Stoddard, director of Yahoo Photos, said. 
 Even so, the smaller competitors have some advantages. Ofoto.com and Sony's Imagestation.com, for instance, have considerable muscle behind them, while Snapfish.com can rely on marketing support from District Photo, one of the biggest mail-order film processors.
 Ofoto, Snapfish and Shutterfly.com have for years helped customers convert conventional photos into digital images they could e-mail to others. Now they, too, enable digital camera users to swap photos, or print them professionally for less than 20 cents an image.
 Raj Kapoor, president of Snapfish, said the company recently allowed camera phone users to e-mail images directly to their albums on the Snapfish site. This week the company will vastly expand the merchandise people can order decorated with their photos. The new items include dog leashes, baby bibs and neckties. 
 In this competitive market, Google's purchase of Picasa is particularly intriguing. Unlike most other services, Picasa is a peer-to-peer sharing application. Users open a window similar to that of instant messaging applications to swap photos.
 Google declined to comment on its acquisition, citing the required ''quiet period'' for companies selling shares to the public. But because Picasa's technology is a cousin of instant messaging software, the acquisition could signal Google's entry into that category, as much as in photo sharing. Google, which has extended its lucrative text advertising service to Gmail, its new e-mail service, could conceivably distribute ads alongside instant messages as well.
 Peer-to-peer photo sharing, in itself, could prove a profitable market, in the view of John Mathon, chief executive of such a service, ShareALot, based in San Mateo, Calif. Users of the service need only drag their photos to an icon on the computer's desktop for instant transmission to selected friends. ShareALot displays ads with the photos.
 Thanks to the ease of use, Mr. Mathon said, ''tens of thousands of people have shared more than a million photos with us'' since the company's debut in March.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Webshots employees like Michelle Cieslak check images for inappropriate content before they are posted on the Web site. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (97%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%) Photography; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); CBS INTERACTIVE INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Webshots; Cnet Networks; Picasa Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (72%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



559 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Two Pakistani Workers Reported Missing in Iraq
Two Pakistanis working in Iraq were reported missing in a suspected kidnapping. Insurgents have moved with rapidly increasing sophistication to develop hostage-taking as their most powerful weapon as they issue fresh threats against other foreign nations. A1

Rising security and other overhead costs of Western contractors in Iraq are cutting into the billions of dollars set aside for some 90 planned water projects. As a result, only half the potable water originally expected is being supplied. Iraq is meeting no more than 60 to 80 percent of the demand for water on a given day. A8

Karzai Delays Pakistan Visit
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan postponed a state visit to Pakistan at the last minute amid political tension with his defense minister and potential vice-presidential running mate, Marshal Muhammad Qasim Fahim. A9

Peaceful Protest in Israel
Tens of thousands of Israelis held hands to form a human chain that stretched 56 miles, from the Gaza Strip to the Western Wall in Jerusalem, as a protest against Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to dismantle Jewish settlements and to withdraw forces from the Gaza Strip. A4

Journalist's Family Persists
The lawyer representing the family of a slain Iranian-Canadian photojournalist vowed to continue the struggle to bring her killer to justice, one day after a court cleared an Iranian intelligence agent of responsibility on the grounds of a ''lack of proof.'' A9

Focusing on Muslims in Athens
As the opening of the Olympic Games draws closer, and the Greek police and foreign intelligence agencies have increased their activities in a predominately Muslim area of Athens. Residents of the district are increasingly unhappy with the police interrogations and surveillance. A3

Oversight by Police in Madrid
Spain's interior minister said an investigation was under way to determine why a car used in the March 11 train bombings went unnoticed by police for three months even though it was only yards away from another vehicle connected to the attacks. A6

NATIONAL A10-12

Democrats Gather For First Day of Convention
Democrats gathered in Boston for their party's nominating convention, brimming with anger at President Bush but saying they would bow to Senator John Kerry's request to tone down attacks on the president over the next four days. A1

Mr. Kerry pulled off a grand political surprise when he showed up at Fenway Park for the Red Sox-Yankees game in Boston, making a brief appearance in his hometown on the eve of the Democratic convention. P1

The streets around the convention site resembled an armed camp on opening day, with helicopters overhead, bomb-sniffing dogs, police officers and soldiers lining the intersections, many kinds of barriers, and an officially designated ''Free Speech Zone'' sealed off with cyclone fencing and razor wire. P3

More convention news Section P

Security Said to Be Improving
Immigration officials said they had already started taking some of the urgent steps recommended last week by the Sept. 11 commission to enhance border security, but the effort remains far from complete. A12

Raid for Bin Laden Aborted
George J. Tenet, then the director of central intelligence, scrapped a raid to kidnap Osama bin Laden in May 1998, according to the report by the Sept. 11 commission. A12

Panel Members Look Ahead
The chairman and vice chairman of the commission that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks said they had established an ''extraordinary partnership'' and did nothing to tamp down speculation that they might be candidates for a newly created post of national intelligence director. A12

'Correctional Population' Rises
The number of Americans under the control of the criminal justice system grew by 130,700 last year to reach a new high of nearly 6.9 million, according to a report released by the Justice Department. A10

Banking on Tobacco Plan
Thousands of people stand to benefit from a $12 billion Senate-approved plan to compensate the owners of tobacco production quotas created by a Depression-era subsidy program. They include many who have never set foot on a tobacco farm and some who live as far away as Iceland, Japan and Guam. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Immigrant's Death Seen As Health System Flaw
Health officials say the death of an uninsured Korean immigrant in a Queens hospital illustrates the flaws in a medical care system that all too often can seem broken to those without insurance, riddled with complications that are compounded when cultural taboos and language barriers are added. B1

Concern Over Power Lines
A Connecticut utility's plant to upgrade power lines on the site of a Jewish community center in Woodbridge has upset parents, who worry that the children who camp there in the summer are at risk from electromagnetic radiation. B1

A Distaste for Disorder
New York City's decision to deny Republican National Convention protesters a permit for the Great Lawn in Central Park, and move them instead to the West Side Highway, is a clear illustration of the Bloomberg administration's fundamental feelings about civil protest. B1

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES A14

Edward Lewis
A geneticist whose landmark observations of fruit fly genes shed light on a embryonic development in humans and was recognized with a Nobel Prize in 1995, he was 86. A14

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Armstrong Wins 6th Tour
Lance Armstrong broke one of the most revered records in cycling, rolling into Paris as the winner of the Tour de France for the sixth time. Mr. Armstrong, the leader of the United States Postal Service team, made it look easy by going on a rampage in the final third of the three-week race. D1

Ricky Williams Retires
Ricky Williams has decided to retire at the peak of his career, stunning the Miami Dolphins and leaving a void in their backfield less than a week before training camp. The 27-year-old Williams, who rushed for 3,225 yards in two seasons with the Dolphins, told coach Dave Wannstedt of his decision before leaving the country to begin months of travel. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Drug Company to Buy Rival
Mylan Laboratories, the nation's largest maker of generic drugs, agreed to acquire a rival, King Pharmaceuticals, for about $4 billion in stock, in the latest move among generic drug makers to bulk up and diversify their business as they face escalating pressure from the big pharmaceutical companies. C1

Cross-Border Bank Merger
Spain's Banco Santander Central Hispano agreed to buy Britain's Abbey National, in a mostly stock deal worth more than 8.5 billion pounds ($15.6 billion), a combination representing the largest cross-border banking merger in Europe since the euro was adopted. C1

Trade Talks Offer Hope
Trade officials may finally reach a compromise aimed at bringing developing nations more fully into the world's trading system and providing a lift to the global economy. C1

Papers Blanket Conventions
The news staffs of the country's major daily political publications have temporarily relocated to Boston to publish special daily editions for the Democratic National Convention. C1

Wiring the Politicians
Verizon Communications has laid 4,000 miles of cable, installed 1,000 high-speed data lines and prepared 10,000 phones in and around the Fleet Center, where the Democratic National Convention is taking place. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Lost in the haze; complacency on AIDS prevention; the White House tax-cut machinations; Francis X. Clines on forbearance in Boston.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E5
TV Listings E7
Crossword E6
Weather A13


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (76%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); POLITICS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LAWYERS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (66%); RELIGION (66%); OLYMPICS (64%); DOGS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SPAIN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



560 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: What Works in the Rest of the World

BYLINE: By William B. Gould IV. 
William B. Gould IV, chairman of the National Labor Relations Board from 1994 to 1998, is the co-author of ''International Labor Standards: Globalization, Trade and Public Policy.'' He is an alternate delegate to the Democratic convention.

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif. 

 BODY:
Wages declined and unemployment held steady last month. So at this week's convention and for the rest of the campaign, John Kerry is likely to make an issue of Americans' anxiety about jobs -- and his promised insistence upon labor standards as part of future trade agreements is an astute political stance. 
 But from a practical standpoint, it will have almost no effect. The adoption of labor and environmental standards, while symbolically significant, will not slow America's job and income losses, and the prospect for significant international negotiations on such matters is remote. 
 One problem is that global wage disparities are enormous. No serious person argues that wages, economic benefits and other aspects of employment should be equal or even comparable in the industrialized and developing worlds. That is because such a policy would lead to economic devastation for the developing world, disrupting international trade and enhancing prospects for worldwide conflict.
 An international minimum wage, for example, would also require that any trading partner with the United States have some form of acceptable wage. But what would the wage be, and how would it be enforced? If the United States determines such matters for itself, it risks international opprobrium for a unilateralist approach, a claim with which the Bush administration is familiar.
 But while international standards for economic matters like wages are not practical, the same cannot be said for so-called core standards that have been adopted by the International Labor Organization, an agency of the United Nations. These standards, intended to promote fair treatment of workers, are not binding. But the president and Congress could include them in future trade agreements -- and even insist upon their inclusion in Nafta itself and legislation promoting trade with China.
 This approach has its own problems. The first is that even these standards may prove difficult for the developing world to accept. Countries like India, for example, have resisted discussion of such issues at the World Trade Organization.
 Second, even if a Kerry administration could negotiate such provisions, most of them would not have any impact on jobs. The one economic item in the core standards -- the limited prohibition of child labor -- could conceivably have an effect. But impoverished families may then be tempted to turn to even worse options, like child prostitution. One way out of this predicament, of course, would be for the children to go to school -- but the schools are badly in need of improvement in most third world countries.
 To improve the prospects of workers in the third world, the United States could provide more foreign aid, which could then be spent on education. Yet the United States now ranks dead last among developed nations in percentage of gross domestic product devoted to foreign aid, and the political wherewithal to increase foreign aid is thus far not forthcoming.
 In many ways international trade is a domestic issue: trade brings change, and change frequently means painful dislocation that can be assuaged only by social programs. In this context national health insurance makes sense, as does a wage insurance program like the one Bill Bradley advocated in 2000. What laid-off auto and steel workers need is the same as what their outsourced service and professional counterparts need: not a new trade war, but domestic legislation on health benefits and wages. That should be the focus of the trade debate in 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); MINIMUM WAGE (79%); POOR POPULATION (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); CHILD LABOR (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (68%); CHILDREN (65%); PROSTITUTION (50%) International Trade and World Market; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Unemployment; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Third World and Developing Countries; Fringe Benefits; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) William B Iv Gould; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



561 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Where Do They Stand?

BYLINE: By SARAH BINDER, THOMAS MANN, ALAN MURPHY AND PAUL SAHRE. 
Sarah Binder and Thomas Mann are senior fellows at the Brookings Institution. Alan Murphy is a senior research assistant there. Paul Sahre is a graphic designer.

 BODY:
Most campaigns feature efforts by the candidates to characterize their opponent as being out of the mainstream -- as an extreme liberal or as part of the far right. The current presidential campaign is no exception. 
 Thus far, most of the ideological fire has been directed at the Kerry-Edwards ticket. The Bush campaign has gotten particularly good mileage out of a National Journal analysis of roll call voting in 2003 that ranked John Kerry of Massachusetts as the No. 1 liberal in the Senate and John Edwards of North Carolina as the fourth-most-liberal senator. 
 Yet the senators' ratings are misleading because of the large number of votes each man missed. Mr. Kerry, for example, attended so few votes on social and foreign policy that his composite score in 2003 was based only on economic policy. Even then he was not the single most liberal senator on economic issues; it was a distinction he shared with six other senators, including Bob Graham of Florida. 
 So where do the Democratic nominees really fit along the left-right spectrum? Well, you get a different answer if your calculations are based on nearly all votes cast by the candidates in their Senate careers. Using this measure, we have arrayed Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards from left to right in the above figure based on their voting history in the Senate. For comparison's sake, we also have included Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, Joe Lieberman of Connecticut, John McCain of Arizona, and the parties' median senators. We even have scores for President Bush (from his announced positions on roll call votes while president) and Vice President Dick Cheney (based on the votes he cast when he represented Wyoming in the House of Representatives from 1979 through 1988). 
 Assertions that the Democrats' presumptive nominees are extreme liberals fall flat. True, Mr. Kerry's voting history places him to the left of today's median Senate Democrat (Tom Daschle of South Dakota). But he is closer to the center of the Democratic Party than he is to the most liberal senators, including Mr. Kennedy. John Edwards falls just to the right of the median Democrat. In fact, he is nearly indistinguishable from Mr. Lieberman, the Democrats' vice presidential candidate in 2000.
 On the other side of the partisan divide, Mr. Bush -- like Mr. Kerry -- is more extreme than his party's median senator (Richard Shelby of Alabama). He is also noticeably more conservative than his primary challenger in 2000, John McCain. So any assertion that the Democratic candidates are out of the mainstream might easily be applied to the Republicans as well. In fact, if any of the four candidates on the national party tickets this year is out of the mainstream, it is Mr. Cheney, who in his last full term in the House was on the right flank of roughly 90 percent of his Republican colleagues.


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LIBERALISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RANKINGS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics); Election Issues; United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2000; Primaries

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%); DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); TOM DASCHLE (55%) Sarah Binder; Thomas Mann; Alan Murphy; Paul Sahre; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



562 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: A Duet That Straddles the Political Divide

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
It was not supposed to be that way, but the tone of political discourse on the Web is often intensely partisan. After all, the Internet can be a medium of infinite narrowness, where the like-minded can visit the same Web sites, blogs and mailing lists, confirming their shared beliefs and prejudices.
 But in a refreshing break with form, one of the big new hits on the Web is a silly, two-minute satire of the current Republican-Democrat bun fight, starring President Bush and Senator John Kerry as animated cutout figures. 
 The short digital film, set to the tune of Woody Guthrie's ''This Land is Your Land,'' has certainly struck a chord. Last Friday, there were about 3.7 million downloads of the work of bipartisan ridicule, more than double the level a few days earlier. 
 The film can be downloaded from the Web site, atomfilms.shockwave.com. 
 ''The political dialogue has become so juvenile and so nasty that there was a lot of pent-up levity out there,'' said Gregg Spiridellis, 33, who along with his brother, Evan, 30, wrote, directed and animated the film. ''We just set out to make something that would make people laugh -- no more than that.''
 The film's dialogue is hardly Socratic, but it does capture a certain unspun essence of the two campaigns.
 Bush to Kerry: ''You liberal sissy.''
 Kerry to Bush: ''You right-wing nut job.''
 Beyond policy, the film also addresses matters of leadership and style. 
 Bush to Kerry: ''You have more waffles than a House of Pancakes.''
 Kerry to Bush: ''You can't say 'nuclear.' That really scares me.''
 The refrain is: ''This land will surely vote for me.'' 
 The Spiridellis brothers are the full-time work force of JibJab Media, an animation shop in Santa Monica, Calif. But they also rely on freelance help. The voices on the ''This Land'' video -- Bush, Kerry and a cameo by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California -- were done by a friend, Jim Meskimen, an actor. 
 The music was done by Evan Spiridellis's wife, Adrienne, a musician. She worked on an electrified keyboard attached to her Apple Macintosh computer, with a special software program that converts her keystrokes into the digitized sounds of any one of dozens of instruments heard on the film. ''Isn't it amazing?'' Evan Spiridellis marveled. ''God bless technology.''
 JibJab is a stoic survivor of the Internet bubble, and so are the two companies handling the massive distribution of ''This Land.'' JibJab first posted the film on their Web site on July 9, but volume really picked up last week after AtomFilms, a unit of the AtomShockwave Corporation, signed a deal with the Spiridellis brothers. AtomFilms is one of the few Internet distributors of short films. ''This is the biggest hit we've ever had,'' the chief executive of AtomShockwave, Mika Salmi, said.
 Last Wednesday, with volume surging, the company called in another dot-com era survivor, Speedera Networks Inc., a Web site with a specialist that has handled the technology needs of other big-hit sites, from ''American Idol'' to the NASA site for the Mars Rover. ''We're designed for this kind of peak, on-demand computing,'' Speedera's chief executive, Ajit Gupta, said.
 JibJab makes its modest living doing contract work for Disney, Sony and the Cartoon Network. The Spiridellis brothers did not make ''This Land'' to make money, but to create a larger online audience for their work. They are working on a 90-minute animated feature they hope to sell to Hollywood. ''We're hoping the buzz from this helps build our reputation and our following,'' Gregg Spiridellis said.
 It cannot hurt. By now, parts of the ''This Land'' have been shown on Fox News, CNBC, CBS ''Early Show,'' the ''NBC Nightly News'' and elsewhere. Last Friday, the brothers were talking with Jay Leno's ''Tonight Show'' about appearing tonight.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In JibJab Media's short film, Senator John Kerry and President Bush take swipes at each other while singing their own versions of ''This Land Is Your Land.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); WEB SITES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ANIMATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); MUSIC (75%); FILM (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Computers and the Internet; Comedy and Humor; Animated Films

ORGANIZATION: JibJab Media

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Evan Spiridellis; Gregg Spiridellis; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



563 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Converge on Boston, Keyed Up but Toning It Down

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DAVID ROSENBAUM; Adam Nagourney reported for this article from Boston, and David E. Rosenbaum from Washington. Michael Slackman, Jennifer 8. Lee and Marc Santora contributed reporting from Boston.

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 25 

 BODY:
Democrats gathered here Sunday for their party's nominating convention, brimming with anger at President Bush but backing John Kerry's call to tone down attacks on the president over the next four days.
 ''This should not be a bash-Bush party,'' said Lou Magazzu, the party chairman in Cumberland County, N.J., standing in the lobby of the Omni Parker House Hotel, which was teeming with hundreds of delegates checking in as a fortress-like atmosphere gripped this city on the eve of its first convention of a national political party in history.
 Indeed, interviews with dozens of delegates suggested that confidence in Mr. Kerry's prospects for November was creating a display of discipline that was highly unusual for this famously fractious party. 
 ''It has to be positive -- people are sick and tired of negativity,'' said Frances S. Williams, 75, a delegate from Las Cruces, N.M. ''As far as I am concerned, the tone of the campaign's a positive one: what do the Democrats stand for, and how we are going to execute, what are we going to offer the people of this country that George Bush hasn't?'' 
 As delegates gathered, Mr. Kerry interrupted a slow cross-country trip, leaving Ohio and showing up at Fenway Park for a game between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. ''This plane is diverted!'' he announced as he left Columbus for Boston. [Page P1.]
 For all their pledges to play up the positive in their oratory, party officials said they would adopt a platform on Tuesday that will set out clear differences with Mr. Bush. The platform describes Mr. Bush's foreign policy as ''dangerously ineffective,'' says the government is ''not doing enough to make America safe from terrorism'' and warns that ''costs are soaring and ordinary incomes are sinking.'' 
 ''It is time for a new direction,'' the platform proclaims.
 Still, Mr. Kerry's effort to modulate the tone of a party that has been powered by anger for most of the year, which he expressed last week in an interview and reinforced on Sunday with an orchestrated set of statements by party leaders, showed at least initial signs of success, though even some Democrats were skeptical that it would last through four days of conventioneering.
 Jerry Springer, a delegate from Ohio -- yes, that Jerry Springer -- said in an interview, ''It's not necessary to be critical of Bush, as 95 percent of Americans have made up their minds.''
 Terry McAuliffe, the party's national chairman, asserted, ''I'm going to what will be the most nonevent, harmonious Rules Committee meeting in the history of the Democratic Party. The press sometimes says, 'All this harmony -- don't you want some action?''' 
 ''No,'' Mr. McAuliffe said. ''I love it. I think it's great.'' 
 Across Boston, delegates filled hotel lobbies and cafes along Newbury Street, lined up to greet former President Bill Clinton at a book party or headed to Fenway to watch the Red Sox battle the Yankees. 
 But the city, on this unseasonably cool July day, was filled with reminders of how significantly the times have changed since the nation's last nominating convention. The streets, stripped of mailboxes and garbage cans, buzzed with helicopters. Police and military officers were posted on virtually every street corner. A sharpshooter with binoculars was spotted on top of the state Capitol.
 The platform agreed to by Democrats, which will be adopted on Tuesday, underscored both Mr. Kerry's dominance over the party and the unity on display here.
 The platform conforms with the positions Mr. Kerry has taken in this campaign, including some that are at variance with the views of many members of his party. On Iraq, it disregards the view of Democratic voters generally and the delegates in particular that the war was a mistake and that the United States should withdraw combat troops as soon as possible. Instead, the platform says, ''People of good will disagree about whether America should have gone to war in Iraq.'' But ''having gone to war,'' it says, ''we cannot afford to fail at peace. We cannot allow a failed state in Iraq that inevitably would become a haven for terrorists and a destabilizing force in the Middle East.''
 The platform advocates enlisting allies ''to share in the political, economic and military responsibilities of Iraq.'' 
 On the economy, the platform promises to ''cut taxes for 98 percent of Americans.'' It would retain the tax cuts adopted under President Bush for people with incomes below $200,000 but repeal the cuts for those with higher incomes. It pledges to reduce the budget deficit by half in four years, to raise the minimum wage, to secure labor and environmental standards in all trade agreements and to expand the number of jobs at home while limiting those that American companies have overseas.
 Mr. Kerry and his supporters said they wanted to use these four days here to try to make a case for Mr. Kerry rather than attack Mr. Bush. Speakers at the convention have been asked to tone down their attacks on the president.
 ''We're going to have a positive convention, focusing on the issues,'' said Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who is chairman of the convention. ''You're going to see positive themes, not bashing the president,'' Mr. Richardson said, but recognizing that some Democrats are eager to hear the bashing, he could not resist adding, ''There'll be some of that; hang in there.''
 There was not even that much hanging in to do. Mr. McAuliffe, in a separate appearance, could not restrain himself as he said the White House was going to ''spend millions of dollars on weapons of mass deception.'' Smiling, he described the turn of phrase as ''a highlight of my speech tomorrow night.''
 Other Democrats questioned whether Mr. Kerry should pass up four of the biggest days of his campaign without going after Mr. Bush. 
 ''It takes negative and positive to make electricity,'' said the Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
 And Norman Oliver, 40, a delegate from Delaware, said: ''I think they should attack Bush on everything from the war to No Child Left Behind. Our problem is that that we always have to be the nice guy.'' 
 Even while confident about the election ahead, Democrats here said they were looking for Mr. Kerry to make major advances with the electorate in the days ahead .
 ''I think Kerry has to solidify his position, because he hasn't done that yet,'' said Annette McCroy, a delegate from Lincoln, Neb. ''I would really like him to kick it into gear, and maybe his people were waiting for the convention to do that.''
 But Luis M. Diaz, a New York State assemblyman from the Bronx and a Democratic delegate, said he agreed with Mr. Kerry's approach. ''I think positive is definitely the strategy right now. And if we are unified in our desire for change, that is a good thing. I just think it has gotten to the point where everyone in the party is so upset at the Bush administration, they will do whatever it takes to win.''
 And Barbara Howard, a delegate from Tuskegee, Ala., said of Mr. Kerry, ''There is no need to Bush-bash, because if we just stay on target, if he speaks to the issues that affect the heart of Americans, people will respond.''
 The Democratic platform, in embracing Mr. Kerry's positions, also stakes out familiar positions on domestic issues that are at odds with the Republicans'. It favors guarding Social Security and Medicare against privatization, enacting environmental protections, making health insurance available to all and protecting abortion rights. It opposes vouchers for private school tuition and promises to end ''loopholes in our tax code'' and ''corporate subsidies.''
 Republicans were quick to disparage it. ''Any read of the Democratic platform is going to leave readers feeling they've entered an alternative universe,'' said Terry Holt, a campaign spokesman. ''The Democratic Party has moved ever more toward the left and is completely out of sync with the mainstream.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Custer, a Pennsylvania delegate, was among the convention-goers arriving by train yesterday at South Street Station in Boston. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. P2)
 Senator John Kerry tossing the first pitch at the Red Sox-Yankees game in Boston. His team won 9-6. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BASEBALL (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (82%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); RICK PERRY (58%) Adam Nagourney; David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Boston (Mass); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



564 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 3; National Desk; PROLOGUE TO A CONVENTION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Where the Parties Stand

 BODY:
Following is a comparison of excerpts from the Democratic Party platform with positions taken by President Bush or the Republican Party in its 2000 platform. The Republicans will adopt a new platform at their convention next month.

The war in Iraq

THE DEMOCRATS PLATFORM
''People of good will disagree about whether America should have gone to war in Iraq, but this much is clear: this administration badly exaggerated its case, particularly with respect to weapons of mass destruction and the connection between Saddam's government and Al Qaeda. This administration did not build a true international coalition. This administration disdained the United Nations weapons inspection process and rushed to war without exhausting diplomatic alternatives. Ignoring the advice of military leaders, this administration did not send sufficient forces into Iraq to accomplish the mission. And this administration went into Iraq without a plan to win the peace.

THE REPUBLICANS
In a speech in Iowa last week, President Bush said: ''Saddam Hussein was a sworn enemy of the United States. He is a person who had used weapons of mass destruction on his own people. ... The world came together and said that. ... Now we're marching to peace. The world is becoming more peaceful. ... A free Iraq will not only make Americas short-term security interests better, it will make our long-term security interests better. ... There are 30 countries in Iraq. ... We've got people working well together.''

Terrorism and domestic security

THE DEMOCRATS PLATFORM
''Washington today is not doing enough to make America safe. We have made some progress since the terrible attacks of Sept. 11. After resisting Democratic efforts for months, the administration finally agreed to create the Department of Homeland Security. But we have not done nearly enough. Our intelligence services remain fragmented and lack coordination. Millions of massive shipping containers arrive at American ports every year without being searched and without even a reliable list of their contents. Our borders are full of holes. Our chemical plants are vulnerable to attack. ... The Bush administration, full of tough talk about terror, has no coherent plan for domestic defense.''

THE REPUBLICANS
In a speech last week at a fund-raiser in Washington, the president said: ''Before Sept. 11, the security of the American homeland was in grave danger. Our government was not organized to meet the new threat. We transformed our defenses; we created a new Department of Homeland Security. We rallied the world to pursue terrorists abroad and strengthen our laws to act against terrorists at home. ... We're using intelligence and law enforcement better than ever before. The mission of the F.B.I. is now focused on preventing terrorism. In a vast and free nation such as ours, it is impossible to guarantee perfect security. But I can assure you, many fine professionals in intelligence and national security and homeland security and law enforcement are working around the clock; theyre doing everything they can to protect us. And because of their vigilance, America is safer.''

The economy and jobs

THE DEMOCRATS PLATFORM
In President George Bush's America, where everyday costs are soaring and ordinary incomes are sinking, the middle class is struggling, and our economy is suffering. ... [Republicans] have catered to the wealth of the richest ... and the middle class is shouldering more taxes. ... We should set taxes for families making more than $200,000 a year at the same level as in the late 1990's. ... We will cut taxes for 98 percent of Americans.''

THE REPUBLICANS
From Mr. Bush's speech at the Washington fund-raiser: ''We passed historic tax relief for families and small businesses. Because we acted, our economy since last summer has been growing at the fastest rate in nearly 20 years. Because we acted, America has added more than 1.5 million new jobs since last August. ... My opponents look at this progress and somehow conclude the sky is falling. ... Its the same old pessimism. But that's the surest way to end economic growth and put Americans out of work.

Abortion

THE DEMOCRATS PLATFORM
''Because we believe in the privacy and equality of women, we stand proudly for a woman's right to choose, consistent with Roe v. Wade, and regardless of her ability to pay. We stand firmly against Republican efforts to undermine that right. ... Abortion should be safe, legal and rare.''

THE REPUBLICANS
From the 2000 Republican platform: ''The unborn child has a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed. We support a human life amendment to the constitution, and we endorse legislation to make clear that the 14th Amendments protections apply to unborn children. ... We oppose using public revenue for abortion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); AL-QAEDA (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); INSPECTIONS (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; United States Economy; Abortion; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



565 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE SPEAKER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: A Surprise Senate Contender Reaches His Biggest Stage Yet

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 25 

 BODY:
Barack Obama's Senate campaign office in Springfield is a steamy, dimly lit room with a desk, a phone, a fan and a box of tissues. A storefront in the state capital, with a broken sign outside and a monthly rent of less than $600, it reminds visitors just how recently and how suddenly he has been thrust into national view.
 Mr. Obama, who will deliver the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention, is, after all, just a state legislator from the country's vast middle, and not even from a battleground state in the presidential fight. He is only 42. But after a primary victory in Illinois of startling dimensions, and with his Republican opponent having suddenly dropped out, Mr. Obama stands a good chance to win a seat from the Republicans, and to become the United States Senate's only African-American member.
 And that -- along with what Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, calls ''a harmonic convergence'' of Mr. Obama's broad appeal, the Democratic Party's campaign-year needs, and the fortune of timing -- has brought Mr. Obama to what he describes, with puzzling calm, as the biggest political moment of his life. 
 ''It came as a surprise that I'd be selected for such a privileged position,'' Mr. Obama said on a recent afternoon, as he sat in his Springfield office and reflected on what he may tell a national audience in Boston on Tuesday night. ''As my wife reminds me, I better not screw it up.''
 Even before he breathes a word to the widest audience of his career, just the prospect of the speech has propelled Mr. Obama into the spotlight. He spent Sunday morning answering questions on network news programs along with better-known figures, the leaders of the Sept. 11 commission and the governors of Michigan and New Mexico.
 Mr. Obama, a state senator who represents Chicago's South Side, said he intended to describe what he has heard as he has wandered in the Midwest: the economic squeeze people face with jobs that pay less than before and the anxieties they feel about Iraq, but also his sense of Americans' resilience and strength. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''it is a hopeful story I want to tell.''
 One point listeners are unlikely to hear is his opposition in 2002 to Congress's approval of the war in Iraq. Senators John Kerry and John Edwards voted to authorize it.
 Last week, Mr. Obama was waiting for editing of his draft from Mr. Kerry's campaign, but said he hopes to deliver mostly his own words, written, thankfully, he said, before he realized what a big deal the keynote was, before he had a chance to develop writer's block. 
 Stephanie Cutter, communications director for the Kerry campaign, explained why the campaign chose Mr. Obama, a former community organizer and Harvard-educated civil rights lawyer: ''We believe he represents the future of the party.''
 Mr. Kerry's supporters say they hope the choice will also sway those who have accused Mr. Kerry of failing to include enough minorities in top campaign roles and, more broadly, of failing to excite black voters.
 ''This represents the Democrats reaching out,'' the Rev. Jesse Jackson said. ''It's important because the destiny of the Democratic Party is tied up, in some sense, in the growth of the minority base.''
 In conventions past, the coveted keynote slot has gone to a wide variety of people viewed as emerging stars. Among them: Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas in 1976; Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York in 1984; Ann W. Richards, then the treasurer of Texas, in 1988; Evan Bayh, then the governor of Indiana, in 1996; and Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., of Tennessee in 2000.
 Mr. Ford, who is black and was 30 years old when he delivered his speech, said he was uncertain what role race played in his invitation four years ago -- or in Mr. Obama's now. ''You have to ask John Kerry that,'' Mr. Ford said. ''What I know is that Barack is smart, he's savvy, he's tough, he's ready. These issues transcend the traditional demarcation lines. He is an American story.''
 Mr. Obama's father was Kenyan, his mother a white American. After his father left the family and eventually returned to Africa -- a subject he addressed in a 1995 memoir, ''Dreams From My Father: a Story of Race and Inheritance'' -- he grew up mostly in Hawaii with help from his maternal grandparents, who were from Kansas. 
 Mr. Obama graduated from Columbia, then became the first African-American president of The Harvard Law Review in 1990. He and his wife, Michelle, live with two daughters near the University of Chicago law school, where he lectures. 
 In Illinois, people long debated how Mr. Obama's race might affect his chances of going to the Senate. Some said he would fail to win votes in mostly white Chicago neighborhoods and suburbs, as well as in the rural regions of the state. Others said he might not get full support from Chicago's black neighborhoods. Four years ago, Mr. Obama unsuccessfully ran against Representative Bobby L. Rush, the onetime Black Panther and a fellow Democrat, for Mr. Rush's House seat. Some, including Mr. Rush, seemed to hold the challenge against Mr. Obama. 
 But in the March primary, when few expected any of the seven candidates to get a statewide majority, Mr. Obama won 53 percent.
 ''That's the thing about him,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's political consultant. ''He has the ability to walk into any room and connect with anybody. I think it's because of who he is -- the many different cultural strands that are part of him.''
 Last week, Gordon Stine, a fifth-generation soybean and corn farmer from tiny St. Elmo, Ill., tried to explain why his farmers' union favored Mr. Obama. ''He came to us and he listened,'' said Mr. Stine, who is white. ''That's it.''
 And although Mr. Rush endorsed a different candidate in the Democratic primary, he praised the news that Mr. Obama would speak at the convention. ''Bygones are now bygones,'' Mr. Rush said. ''An African-American voice has been missing in this discussion.''
 Asked how he defined his own racial identity, Mr. Obama said he considered himself African-American.
 ''The reason that I've always been comfortable with that description is not a denial of my mother's side of the family,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Rather, it's just a belief that the term African-American is by definition a hybrid term. African-Americans are a hybrid people. We're mingled with African culture and Native American culture and European culture.
 He added later: ''If I was arrested for armed robbery and my mug shot was on the television screen, people wouldn't be debating if I was African-American or not. I'd be a black man going to jail. Now if that's true when bad things are happening, there's no reason why I shouldn't be proud of being a black man when good things are happening, too.'' 
 In his television interviews on Sunday morning, Mr. Obama was questioned about his perspective on life as an African-American. 
 On ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, he was asked about controversial comments that the comedian Bill Cosby made recently about the behavior and values of some poor black people, including what he called a lack of concern about education.
 ''I understand the basic premise that Bill Cosby was talking about, and I think he's right about it,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There's got to be an element of individual responsibility and communal responsibility for the uplift of the people in inner-city communities.''
 In eight years in Springfield, Mr. Obama has pushed to change the state's troubled death penalty system, to add early childhood education programs, to increase health care for poor people and to create a state earned-income tax credit. 
 He opposed the war in Iraq, and spoke against it during a rally in Chicago in the fall of 2002. He said then that he saw no evidence that Iraq had unconventional weapons that posed a threat, or of any link between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaeda.
 In a recent interview, he declined to criticize Senators Kerry and Edwards for voting to authorize the war, although he said he would not have done the same based on the information he had at the time.
 ''But, I'm not privy to Senate intelligence reports,'' Mr. Obama said. ''What would I have done? I don't know. What I know is that from my vantage point the case was not made.''
 But Mr. Obama said he did fault Democratic leaders for failing to ask enough tough questions of the Bush administration to force it to prove its case for war. ''What I don't think was appropriate was the degree to which Congress gave the president a pass on this,'' he said.
 In recent weeks, the quest for the seat that Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican, will leave open has taken a series of peculiar turns. Mr. Obama had expected to compete with Jack Ryan, the millionaire who won the Republican primary, but Mr. Ryan quit the race abruptly after being accused of taking his ex-wife, the actress Jeri Ryan, to sex clubs against her wishes.
 Since then, Republicans in Illinois have scrambled to persuade someone to run against Mr. Obama, and so far, they have failed. Mr. Obama, meanwhile, has gone right on campaigning -- against no one -- and money has flowed. He raised $4 million in the last three months.
 If he wins in November, Mr. Obama will become only the third African-American in the Senate since Reconstruction, following Edward W. Brooke, a Republican from Massachusetts, and Carol Moseley Braun, a Democrat from Illinois. Political experts say that status would bring Mr. Obama overwhelming media attention and pressure from interest groups beyond Illinois.
 ''Everyone will want his attention,'' said Ronald Walters, a professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland. ''It is an uncommon goldfish bowl, too -- unforgiving.''
 Reporters already have begun to trudge through his bare office in Springfield a lot, though Mr. Obama appears unfazed by the notice.
 ''Next month, somebody else will be the story, and then I'll be able to just go back to my work,'' he said. ''I think that the constant attention is ephemeral. It's something I'm flattered by, but tend not to take too seriously.''
 Mr. Obama insisted that he would surely feel a wave of nerves by the time he reached the stage on Tuesday night, but he said it so calmly and quietly as to be unconvincing.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barack Obama, the keynote speaker at the Democratic convention. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Barack Obama, state senator and United States Senate candidate, toured the convention floor yesterday. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)(pg. P6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); WRITERS (64%); TERRORISM (62%); APPROVALS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Blacks; Elections; Election Issues ; Minorities (US); Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%) Monica Davey; Barack (Sen) Obama; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) Illinois; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004



566 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Travel Increase Lifts American Express

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The American Express Company, the nation's fourth-largest issuer of credit cards, said yesterday that second-quarter profit rose 15 percent as an expanding economy prompted more travel than at any time since the terrorist attacks of September 2001.
 Net income advanced to $876 million, or 68 cents a share, from $762 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier, the company said. 
Revenue rose 14 percent, to $7.26 billion.
 The company was expected to earn 67 cents based on the average estimate of 18 analysts in a Thomson First Call survey.
 It was the 10th consecutive quarterly gain for the company, which increased advertising by a third to draw more customers as United States air travel and hotel occupancy and room rates climbed. 
 The company's travel-related services unit, which includes credit cards, reported record income of $732 million, an increase of 15 percent from a year earlier. The unit contributed 84 percent of net income for the company.
 The American Express division that provides advice to investors had a profit of $174 million, an 11 percent gain. Earnings at American Express Bank increased 4 percent to $28 million. ''We're entering the second half of the year in excellent competitive position with strong momentum in our major businesses,'' the chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, said in a statement. 
 Shares of American Express, based in New York, rose 79 cents, or 1.6 percent, to close at $48.90 yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (73%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Company Reports ; Credit and Money Cards

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Co

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); STAN (LSE) (55%); 2888 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



567 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Prenatal Tests: More Information, Less Risk

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
At age 35, Angelica decided to start a family. Knowing that her age was associated with an increased risk of bearing a child with a chromosomal defect, at 18 weeks of pregnancy she underwent amniocentesis, an analysis of fetal cells from amniotic fluid extracted by a large needle inserted into the womb through the abdomen. 
 The test revealed a fetus with the extra chromosome that causes Down syndrome, and a distraught Angelica chose to end the pregnancy.
 A year and a half later she was pregnant again. This time she did not want to wait until the fourth month to find out if the fetus had a chromosomal problem, so at 10 weeks she underwent chorionic villus sampling, or C.V.S., an analysis of fetal cells extracted from the placenta. No chromosomal abnormality was found, and six and a half months later she gave birth to a healthy boy. 
 Now 39, Angelica is pregnant once more. Based on her age, her risk of bearing a child with Down syndrome is 1 in 80. But this time there is to be no amniocentesis or C.V.S., for both tests are costly and invasive, with a small but not insignificant risk of miscarriage or fetal damage. 
 Instead, she underwent a series of simple blood tests plus a detailed sonogram at 12 weeks. These tests revealed that there was only a 1 in 981 chance that her child would have a chromosomal abnormality or neural tube defect, about the same risk as that faced by a woman of 29.

Measuring the Hazards
 More women are having babies later in their reproductive lives, at ages when the chance of conceiving a child with a major chromosomal defect rises precipitously. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American College of Medical Genetics recommend that prenatal diagnosis by amniocentesis or C.V.S. be offered to all pregnant women 35 and older, as well as to younger women with positive results on screening blood tests.
 But using age as the sole criterion has resulted in rising numbers of the invasive and expensive tests, as well as an increase in miscarriages of what are often hard-won pregnancies among older women. And so experts in obstetrics and fetal medicine have devised a series of simple blood tests that, when factored together with a woman's age and often with the results of a sonogram, are greatly reducing the numbers of women undergoing the more involved tests without compromising the chances of detecting serious fetal abnormalities.
 A new study, published in the June issue of Obstetrics & Gynecology, illustrates this trend. According to the study, the number of women in Connecticut who had amniocentesis or C.V.S. declined 50 percent from 1991 to 2002, while the share of Down syndrome births did not increase even though more women were becoming pregnant at ''an advanced maternal age.'' 
 Dr. Peter A. Benn, a geneticist at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, where the study was done, said fewer women had the procedures because more of them had blood tests and sonograms to screen for abnormalities.
 Before September 1991, Dr. Benn said, women at his center were identified as facing a high risk of a chromosomally abnormal fetus based on their age or family history, or based on their having a low level of alpha-fetoprotein, a substance in blood. That month, though, the center began screening for Down syndrome in the second trimester of pregnancy using maternal blood levels of three substances -- alpha-fetoprotein plus human chorionic gonadotropin and estriol -- and combining those levels with the woman's age to obtain a risk estimate.
 In 1996, structural abnormalities visible on a sonogram were used to modify the blood-test risk estimate. In 1999, the center added a fourth substance in blood, inhibin-A, to the risk calculation.
 In 1991, there were 48,566 live births there, with 6,082, or 12 percent, to women 35 or older at delivery. In 2002, the number of live births declined to 41,690, but the number born to women 35 and older rose to 9,040, 21.7 percent of the total.
 Despite the 58 percent increase in the share of women 35 and older at delivery, referrals to the center for an invasive test based on age alone declined 68 percent as those receiving the prenatal blood and ultrasound tests grew.
 ''Using age as the sole criterion for an invasive test is not an efficient use of resources,'' Dr. Benn said in an interview. He added that reducing the number of invasive tests did not result in a failure to detect affected pregnancies.
 ''We're getting at least as many, if not more,'' he said, at a much lower cost and with minimal trauma to the woman and her unborn child. An amniocentesis or C.V.S. costs $2,000 or more, while the blood tests and sonogram cost about $300.
 In some areas of the country, blood tests plus the sonogram, which among other things measures a translucent area at the back of the fetal neck, are being performed in the first trimester, as was done in Angelica's case. This approach relieves overall maternal anxiety, because the overwhelming majority of tested pregnancies give a low-risk result. It also permits abortion of an affected pregnancy before other people know the woman is pregnant.
 First-trimester screening has been used in Europe for several years but is only now becoming part of American obstetrical practice, Dr. Benn said.

Understanding the Data
 Doctors, midwives and nurses can estimate the risk of having a baby with chromosomal abnormalities, but each woman must decide herself what to do with that information. In a report in the May/June issue of The Journal of Midwifery & Women's Health, Dr. Elena A. Gates, an obstetrician-gynecologist at the University of California, San Francisco, explored the factors influencing a woman's perception of risk.
 ''We toss numbers around but don't appreciate the difficulties people have in understanding the figures,'' Dr. Gates said in an interview.
 She added that among the factors influencing a woman's perception of risk are her ideas ''when she walks in the door -- what she's read or heard from her friends, and how familiar she is with the condition, whether a friend, neighbor or family member had an affected child or she had a prior affected pregnancy.''
 Also important, she said, is how the information is presented. ''Do you say you have a 5 percent chance of Down syndrome,'' she asked, ''or a 95 percent chance that the baby is not affected?'' 
 In reviewing studies of how women perceive risk, Dr. Gates said, she discovered that it was much harder for most women to understand greater or lesser risk when proportions were used -- say, 1 in 384 versus 1 in 112 -- than when the same risks were expressed as a rate, like 2.6 per 1,000 versus 8.9 per 1,000.
 It takes time to explain risk estimates to pregnant women and their partners, and to be sure they grasp the full meaning of the numbers within the context of personal experience and knowledge. 
 ''Providers should bear in mind that a woman's individual values are much more important to optimizing decision-making than are her risks of any particular outcome,'' Dr. Gates concluded.
 But she added a cautionary note: because of economics, lack of access to doctors and clinics, or simply a delay in receiving care, only about half of all pregnant women in this country receive prenatal diagnostic tests early enough to abort an affected pregnancy or prepare for the birth of an affected child.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Toni Zules)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONGENITAL DISORDERS (94%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); PRENATAL TESTING (90%); FAMILY (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); DOWN SYNDROME (90%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (89%); WOMEN (89%); MISCARRIAGES (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (68%) Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Birth Defects; Amniocentesis; Chorionic Villus Sampling; Tests and Testing; Down Syndrome; Research; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Genetics and Heredity; Age, Chronological; Finances; Blood; Mental Retardation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%) University of Connecticut Health Center; Obstetrics and Gynecology (Journal)

PERSON: Jane E Brody; Peter A (Dr) Benn

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (84%) UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



568 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Chain Says Profit Soared 47% in Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
HCA, the nation's largest hospital chain, said yesterday that second-quarter profit jumped 47 percent because of a reduction in malpractice insurance expenses. But bad debt continued to plague the company as more patients left bills unpaid.
 Net income climbed to $352 million, or 72 cents a share, from $240 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, HCA said in a statement. Revenue rose 6.7 percent, to $5.83 billion. The company is based in Nashville. 
 A trend toward smaller malpractice awards allowed HCA to cut its estimated insurance reserves by $59 million, which raised profit. The company is trying to stem the increase in bad debt, which rose to 11.3 percent of revenue, by asking patients for deposits, offering discounts for prompt payment and steering some patients to other facilities.
 Darren Lehrich, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, said: ''There may be some hope for the bad-debt levels to improve as we get through the rest of 2004, but HCA still continues to struggle with fairly high bad-debt levels and fairly soft volume trends.'' 
 The recent quarter included a 7 cent gain from the reduction in malpractice-insurance reserves and a 2 cent gain from an insurance subsidiary. HCA, which reported preliminary results on July 14, was expected to have per-share profit of 65 cents, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 Shares of HCA fell 48 cents, to $40.27.
 HCA's provision for doubtful accounts rose to $661 million or 11.3 percent of revenue, from $577 million, or 10.6 percent of revenue, a year earlier. In the first quarter, the amount of money that HCA set aside for bad debts swelled to a record $694 million, or 11.7 percent of revenue.
 ''We're going to have to wait until another quarter or two of data is under our belt to really say bad debt's stabilized and it's improving,'' Mr. Bovender said in a telephone interview. ''The economy is certainly getting better and that helps.''
 Hospital companies including HCA and Tenet Healthcare, the second-largest chain, say they have struggled to recover costs caused by a surge in emergency room visits by patients who cannot meet their co-payments or are uninsured. One-fifth of HCA's emergency-room admissions at hospitals open at least a year were for uninsured patients, a 17 percent increase from the year before, HCA said.
 Federal law requires hospitals to accept anyone in need of emergency care, insured or not. HCA, which operates 190 hospitals, said it provided $232 million in charity care and discounts to uninsured patients in the quarter, compared with $209 million a year earlier. Charity care is not counted in revenue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); CHARITIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (65%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%) Company Reports ; Medicine and Health; Hospitals

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Hca-the Healthcare Co

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (92%); PJC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (92%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (92%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (92%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



569 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales and Prices Rose to Records in June

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26 

 BODY:
Sales and prices of existing homes in the United States rose to record highs in June, the National Association of Realtors said on Monday, as home buyers moved to take advantage of low mortgage rates that were expected to rise.
 Sales increased 2.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 6.95 million units in June, from an upward-revised pace of 6.81 million units in May. Analysts had expected a decline to 6.67 million. 
 The median home price nationwide rose to $191,800.
 ''There could be some rush of last-minute buyers realizing this could be their last opportunity to get into the home buying market,'' said Lawrence Yun, senior economist with the Realtors' group.
 Housing inventories dipped to a 4.1-month supply at the current sales pace. The limited number of homes for sale has been driving prices higher in recent months. June's median sales price was up from $182,400 in May and was 9.6 percent higher than in June 2003.
 ''Home price increases are being driven by the fundamentals of strong demand and lean supply,'' Mr. Yun said.
 Despite the increase in selling prices, which has been pronounced in some areas of the country, some economists insist there is little reason to fear that a national housing price bubble is forming because the economy is growing and adding jobs.
 ''Right now, the fundamentals don't suggest any housing bubble, not in general for the U.S. economy,'' John Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia, said.
 States with weak jobs markets -- like Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania -- have experienced flat or declining home values, he said. But in areas like Washington, D.C., house prices have risen as expanded employment draws people there, he added.
 Sales of existing homes are recorded when deals close and reflect a purchase decisions several weeks old. New-home sales, which are logged before a builder breaks ground on a lot, are expected to show a dip when the data for June is reported on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



570 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: African Pastoral: Archaeologists Rewrite History of Farming

BYLINE: By BRENDA FOWLER

 BODY:
Archaeologists have long believed that food production developed worldwide much the way it did in the Near East: as climate changes made wild grains less available, hunters and gatherers settled in villages and relatively quickly domesticated plants and then, over the next few thousand years, animals. 
 But recent genetic studies and excavations in Africa suggest that the patterns of domestication there were strikingly different. This new research, emerging in the last few years in academic books and articles, shows that in Africa, wild cattle were domesticated several thousand years before plants, and that farming and herding spread patchily and slowly across the continent. 
 Why Africans were relatively late to take up farming and where the domestication of wild grains first happened are now the subjects of intense research. One theory is that wild grain was so abundant throughout the continent that there was no need to settle down to farming. Already the new discoveries have caused archaeologists to adjust their thinking about how societies evolved and to realize how assumptions arose from concepts developed for the Near East, where most archaeological work has been done. 
 ''African scholars kept expecting to find domestic plants very early because the model from the Near East was driving the thinking on Africa,'' said Dr. Fiona Marshall, an archaeologist at Washington University in St. Louis who in a 2002 article in The Journal of World Prehistory was among the first to recognize that Africa followed a different paradigm. ''It took us a long time to see that we had a different pattern.''
 As Dr. Angela E. Close, an archaeologist at the University of Washington, put it: ''There was this idea that once you get domesticated plants or animals, or both, then you become a farmer. But a number of peoples didn't do this.''
 For archaeologists, the story of how Near Eastern hunters and gatherers became farmers has become as familiar as a bedtime fable. Beginning as early as 11,000 B.C., people settled into villages and began cultivating wild grasses like rye, emmer wheat and barley. Over time, the genetic makeup of the plants changed, so they needed to be sown and tended in order to grow. 
 Cows, goats and sheep were domesticated over the next few thousand years, and then ceramics were developed to store food. This new way of life quickly swept across Europe and much of Asia. Soon, almost everyone was farming.
 But not in Africa. As Dr. Katharina Neumann, an archaeobotanist at the J.W. Goethe University in Frankfurt, noted in the book ''Food, Fuel and Fields -- Progress in African Archaeobotany,'' published last year, archaeologists at several sites across sub-Saharan Africa have not found evidence of domesticated grains before 2000 B.C., suggesting that until then, people collected wild grains and did not plant their own.
 While the first undisputed remains of domesticated cattle appear in the African archaeological record about 5900 B.C. at a site in Chad, other studies suggest that cattle were domesticated in the same region as early as 9,000 years ago. 
 A study of African cattle published in the journal Science in 2002 suggested that cattle were domesticated independently in Africa, rather than being imported from the Near East, as they were across most of Europe and Asia. 
 Dr. Close said the first pastoralists in Africa, who traveled with domesticated cattle, had probably captured wild animals at first to provide insurance as the Sahara, then partly covered in grassland, began to dry. They moved south to savannas to find moister conditions. These ''cattle-assisted hunter gatherers,'' as she called them, took milk, blood and meat from their animals.
 Some pastoralists began to worship cattle, burying them in elaborate graves. At sites across the Sahara, cattle images appear in rock art. 
 Pastoralism gradually spread west across the southern Sahara, and then south, reaching the equator around 2000 B.C. and South Africa by the first centuries A.D. Like the hunter-gatherers with whom they shared their environment, pastoralists made great use of the abundant wild African grasses growing in the savanna, but did not plant them. Both groups also made ceramics, an innovation that in the Near East came only with settled agricultural villages. 
 By 5500 B.C., domesticated wheat, barley, sheep and goats arrived in Egypt from the Near East. These animals were adopted by cattle-herding pastoralists along the Sahara's southern rim, but the grains did not make it beyond Egypt, probably because they require winter rain, and in most of Africa the rains come in summer. Still, archaeologists wonder why the idea of planting, if not the crops themselves, did not catch on. 
 In an article to be published in September in the book ''African Archaeology: A Critical Introduction,'' Dr. Neumann says there is an implicit assumption among archaeologists that ''agriculture is superior to the foraging of wild plants and that with the invention of agrarian practices, economies based on wild resources are no longer competitive.''
 But she said in an interview that there was no need for African hunter-gatherers to settle down as farmers. Savannas, which cover 80 percent of sub-Saharan Africa, provided people with a vast garden of Eden. Since they were so mobile, hunter-gatherers and pastoralists could take advantage of many varieties of wild grasses, fruits, tubers and game.
 So successful were these strategies that foraging populations like the !Kung San of southern Africa survived until the end of the last millennium, while some in the Tuareg and Zaghawa societies of central Africa still make a living by herding and foraging. 
 Some archaeologists argue that as in the Near East, some African populations began to plant grains because the climate turned drier, threatening their food security. Archaeologists are also trying to understand who the first farmers were, whether hunter-gatherers or pastoralists, and whether they were sedentary.
 Cattle bones turn up at some sites with domesticated millet, suggesting that pastoralists had begun to plant. Sometimes these farmers lived in villages, but other times there is little evidence of sedentary life.
 The first native African grass to be domesticated was pearl millet. Impressions of the grain found in ceramics at Dar Tichitt in Mauritania date to about 1800 B.C., but archaeobotanists are excited about a recent find by Dr. Cathy D'Andrea of Simon Fraser University in Canada, from the Kintampo culture in Ghana that dates to 1740 B.C.
 Comparisons of the proteins of wild and domesticated grains suggest that domestication probably happened twice in western Africa -- in Mauritania and in the Air Mountains of Niger. Sorghum, the second grain domesticated in Africa, appears only in the first century A.D. 
 Although they lack direct evidence, scholars know that pearl millet had to have been domesticated earlier in Africa, probably sometime between 2500 and 3000 B.C. The reason is that domesticated pearl millet has turned up at archaeological sites in India that are contemporaneous with its earliest occurrence in the African record, said Dr. Dorian Fuller, an archaeobotanist at University College London. 
 The theory, Dr. Fuller said, was that the domesticated grain moved east from western Africa along the southern Sahara to the coast, and was spread to India by traders who sailed the Arabian Sea. 
 The oldest domesticated plant in Africa is not a grain but the humble ancestor of today's juicy watermelon, domesticated seeds of which dating to 4000 B.C. were found in the 1980's in southern Libya.
 ''The wild watermelon is a horrible, dry little gourd that grows in the wadis of the northern savanna, but it has seeds you can roast up and eat,'' Dr. Fuller said. (The watermelon we eat now was not developed until Roman times.) 
 Dr. Fuller said the findings of domesticated watermelon seeds support a hypothesis held by Dr. Marshall and her Washington University colleague Dr. Elisabeth Hildebrand, who studied how modern people in northern Africa manipulate wild plants. The archaeologists suggest that people begin domesticating a plant not necessarily to increase yield, as Near Eastern farmers did, but because they want to be sure to have a certain plant when they want it -- either for some ritual use or just because they like it. 
 The people in Libya, Dr. Fuller said, may have planted watermelon seeds so they always had a tasty snack on hand.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1996 dig in Birimi, northern Ghana, found evidence of 2,000-year-old pearl millet, the first native African grass to be domesticated. (Photo by Joanna Casey)Chart: ''Stones Into Plowshares''Earliest dates cereals were grown as crops, as generally agreed by archaeologists. Estimates of even earlier dates for some crops are disputed.NEAR EASTRye11,000 B.C.NEAR EASTWheat8700 B.C.CHINARiceBETWEEN 7000 AND 6500 B.C.CENTRAL AMERICAMaize3500 B.C.SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAPearl millet2000 B.C.(Source by Dr. Katharina Neumann, J.W. Goethe University, Frankfurt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); MAMMALS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); WHEAT FARMING (75%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Agriculture ; Animals ; Books and Literature; Grain; Research; Archaeology and Anthropology; Food; Livestock; Farmers

ORGANIZATION: Goethe, J W, University (Frankfurt)

PERSON: Brenda Fowler; Katharina (Dr) Neumann

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (85%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (85%); GHANA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (77%); MIDDLE EAST (51%) Africa; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



571 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: As Cities Struggle, Police Get By With Less

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
Many cities with budget shortfalls are cutting their police forces and closing innovative law enforcement units that helped reduce crime in the 1990's, police chiefs and city officials say.
 Nowhere is this more true than here in the Midwest. This year, Cleveland has laid off 250 police officers, 15 percent of its total force. Pittsburgh has lost one-quarter of its police officers over the last three years, and Saginaw, Mich., has lost almost a third in that time. 
 Elsewhere, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department has let go 1,200 deputies in the last two years, leading it to close several jails and release a number of inmates early. In Houston, the police chief laid off 190 jail guards this month and assigned their duties to existing police officers. 
 In Cleveland, detectives have been assigned to patrol duties, specialized units like the gang and auto theft squads have been eliminated, and ministations spread around poor neighborhoods have been closed and the community police officers who worked there have returned to patrol cars.
 ''It's been very painful and emotional,'' said Ed Lohn, Cleveland's police chief, whose father was also a policeman here. ''We've had to cut some successful programs and go back to an older style of policing, doing patrols and answering calls for service.''
 Chief Lohn said it was too early to tell whether crime had risen, noting that crime rates often fluctuated for a complex set of reasons, including economic conditions. But the number of arrests is down sharply, with fewer officers on the job. 
 Merchants and residents in poorer neighborhoods say they see more young people loitering on the street and more drug deals, signs that may presage an increase in crime.
 The cities cutting their police forces are struggling with financial problems that have persisted even as some states are beginning to report an increase in tax revenue after a few very lean years. The financial strain has been compounded by a decline in supplemental money from the federal government and the states.
 Cleveland has long suffered from a declining industrial and population base and the resulting falloff in tax revenue. When Jane Campbell took office as mayor in 2002, she said she was surprised to find a budget deficit instead of a surplus. That year, Mayor Campbell raised fines and fees. But it was not enough. Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, lost about $20 million in payroll tax revenue from 2000 to 2003.
 This year, facing a budget gap of $60 million, Cleveland turned to reductions in essential services. 
 Because the police force represents almost 30 percent of Cleveland's budget, Mayor Campbell said, big cuts finally had to be made in law enforcement. 
 Further, she said, the state trimmed its aid for Cleveland's police force by $4 million this year. 
 The federal cutbacks are even more notable. Since 1995, Cleveland has received $34 million for new police officers, Mayor Campbell said.
 But this year it will receive only $498,000 from Washington for all police programs, and President Bush's proposed budget would cut that figure in half. 
 The pressure on police departments has grown in some ways even as their budgets have fallen. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has greatly decreased its crime-fighting work, like investigating bank robberies and drug deals, to concentrate on counterterrorism operations. 
 And many of the nation's 17,000 police forces have been ordered by the federal government to deploy more officers to combat terrorism, in tasks like guarding airports and water works. Cleveland spent $9 million on federally mandated counterterrorism operations last year, with little reimbursement from the federal government, Mayor Campbell said. 
 Donald Pussehl Jr., the police chief in Saginaw, summed up what many police officials are saying about the cuts and redeployments. ''We are going backwards, and that's really unfortunate,'' Chief Pussehl said.
 ''We are having to discontinue many of the proactive strategies like community policing, which we developed in the 90's, and just go back to basics like sitting in patrol cars waiting for calls for service after a crime has been committed,'' he said.
 Some police officials worry that the situation will worsen, if Mr. Bush succeeds in making further reductions in federal aid to the police, as proposed, in favor of contributions for domestic security. 
 ''I think the cuts proposed by the White House for federal aid to police could be devastating to us,'' said Joe Polisar, the police chief in Garden Grove, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles in Orange County, who is also the president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police. ''This is funding that helped us lower the crime rate and money we have come to rely on, and now the White House is proposing to cut it on top of our municipal budget cuts,'' Chief Polisar said. 
 There are three main federal aid programs to local police departments, all administered by the Justice Department. They are the Community Oriented Policing Services Program, known as COPS; the Local Law Enforcement Block Grants Program; and the Byrne Memorial Grant Program.
 The community policing program, which was begun by President Bill Clinton, added 118,000 officers across the country. Mr. Bush has proposed $97 million for the program in the next fiscal year, down 80 percent from $481 million this year. 
 The president has proposed reducing money for the other two programs to $508 million from $884 million this year.
 Chad Kolton, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said much of the money would flow instead to the Department of Homeland Security. ''In the post-9/11 world, where terrorism is one of our most critical concerns, resources that were formerly provided through the Department of Justice will now be provided through the Department of Homeland Security,'' Mr. Kolton said.
 But Chief Polisar said the programs being set up in the Department of Homeland Security would be less helpful to the police. ''They are robbing Peter to pay Paul,'' he said.
 Officer Jose Cora of the Cleveland police said the reduction in services would probably persist until local economic conditions improved significantly. 
 Officer Cora was reassigned this year to drive a patrol car instead of working in a ministation on community policing. ''I got to know people real well in the ministation, knew all the kids by their first names, and when something happened, they'd come by and tell us,'' he said. 
 ''We'd work on small things, to stop the big things from happening, like finding lawn mowers stolen from someone's garage,'' Officer Cora said. ''We wouldn't make an arrest, just tell the person who stole it to do some community service, and that would probably prevent some larger crime later.''
 The owner of One Stop Foods, a convenience store on Cleveland's southeast side, said there had been a noticeable increase in crimes since the police layoffs began in January. 
 ''You got more drug dealing on the street and more kids stealing stuff from the store,'' said the owner, who gave his name only as Junior. 
 Gil Kerlikowske, the Seattle police chief, said police executives across the country were apprehensive.
 ''Just a couple of years ago we were sitting back and saying how good a job we had done, reaching out to the communities and reducing crime to record lows,'' Chief Kerlikowske said. ''Now the money is drying up, and there is an uptick in crime, and I'm worried that a lot of our good work is going to disappear.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Facing a $60 million budget deficit, Mayor Jane Campbell of Cleveland cut essential services, including the layoff of 250 police officers.
 Officer Jose Cora of the Cleveland police was assigned to a patrol car this year instead of community policing. (Photographs by David Richard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRISONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITIES (89%); SHERIFFS (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Police; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Police; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Fox Butterfield; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%) OHIO, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; Pittsburgh (Pa); Cleveland (Ohio); Saginaw (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



572 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks to Provide More Jobs and Speed Rebuilding in Iraq

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26 

 BODY:
Impatient with slow progress in the rebuilding of Iraq, the State Department is conducting a major review of the $18.4 billion program, seeking ways to provide more jobs and visible results more quickly to Iraqis, according to American diplomats and private advisers. 
 The aid effort, intended to transform Iraq's crumbling infrastructure as it wins the support of the Iraqi people, was adopted by Congress in the fall of 2003. While the Pentagon was initially put in charge of designing projects and doling out contracts, it has increasingly shared authority with the State Department.
 But the program has moved more slowly than many officials had expected: only about one-third of the money has been designated for specific projects so far, and most of those ventures are still in planning stages. 
 The Pentagon's approach to the aid -- focusing on huge power, water and other building projects, with billion-dollar-plus ''prime contracts'' given to a small number of American companies -- has been criticized by development experts and some diplomats as misdirected and wasteful. 
 A new look at spending goals and methods has been a priority of the new American ambassador to Iraq, John D. Negroponte, who took charge of the American mission after the transfer of formal sovereignty to an interim Iraqi government on June 28. 
 William B. Taylor Jr., a State Department official who previously worked in Afghanistan, is managing the review, which officials hope to complete by early August. Later this year, he is expected to take over as the Baghdad-based chief coordinator of aid, replacing David J. Nash, the retired navy admiral who has directed rebuilding so far. 
 State Department officials agree that Iraq's decayed and war-damaged infrastructure needs an overhaul, and they say they do not expect to fundamentally alter the aid program's aims, although they will consult with Congress on recommended changes. 
 But they are asking, for example, whether larger amounts should pass through Iraqi ministries with careful conditions rather than be handed to Western firms; whether labor-intensive building methods, spreading jobs and benefits, can be more strongly supported; and whether some large-scale infrastructure needs might just as well be met by international lending agencies like the World Bank, according to a senior State Department official. 
 ''The Iraqis deservedly have a reputation for knowing their own system,'' the official said in an interview on Monday, noting the enormous confusion and start-up costs as Western firms moved quickly into the alien territory of Iraq during the past year. Diplomats are going out of their way to describe the review as a routine and long-planned step. But after the American-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003, some officials complained that the Pentagon pushed aside the State Department's planning for restoring the traumatized society. Aid experts criticized what they saw as the military's reflexive ''big project, big contract'' approach to aid. The Defense Department remains formally in charge of most contracting in Iraq, but must share increasing authority with the State Department.
 ''The projects have been way too large,'' said Rick Barton, an expert on economic reconstruction at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a private research organization in Washington. ''Building large infrastructure is not usually what you do first in a post-conflict society.''
 ''You need to get things going in the right direction, and the process will pick up speed later on,'' he said of economic reconstruction. ''If you try to build pyramids in the beginning, it will suck up all the money,'' as well as provide easy targets for sabotage, he said.
 In recent days, for example, the Iraqi minister for public works noted that because of large and rising costs for security, insurance and administration, expensive water projects will end up providing only half as much potable water as projected. 
 Pentagon and State Department officials have described the comparatively quick and positive results of small aid projects managed by military commanders in the field, and they are looking for ways to duplicate the success. ''People see their situation improve and that the coalition is paying for it,'' the senior State Department official said. 
 The infrastructure needs are huge, Mr. Barton agreed, but many problems can be better attacked ''in bite-sized pieces.'' Instead of handing off most tasks to multinational corporations, he said, ''we need to really engage the Iraqis, possibly making use of the local governing councils we've created.''
 ''We need to make sure the Iraqis have ownership,'' he said, ''so when something goes wrong, they'll fix it themselves instead of blaming outsiders.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TERRORISM (59%) Restoration and Rehabilitation; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Foreign Aid; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: JOHN NEGROPONTE (50%) Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



573 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Rwanda Savors the Rewards of Coffee Production

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: MARABA, Rwanda 

 BODY:
Lifting a battered tablespoon to her lips, Emerthe Mukabavugirije slurps powerfully, pulling every drop of coffee into her mouth. After swishing the beverage in her mouth a few seconds, she spits into a small plastic cup and picks up her pencil to make notes on a clipboard.
 ''This coffee is spicy and nutty,'' the 20-year-old Rwandan coffee farmer and newly trained gourmet says, seamlessly mixing the English words ''spicy'' and ''nutty'' with her native Kinyarwanda.
 After a few hours of forceful slurping and gentle spitting, Ms. Mukabavugirije and four other farmers who represent cooperatives have worked their way through a dozen gourmet coffees from Rwanda's intensively cultivated hills. Stephen Leach, a coffee buyer for Diedrich Coffee, a roaster based in Castroville, Calif., and the Rwandans' tutor for the day, gives them high marks. 
 ''They did a good job of appraising these coffees,'' Mr. Leach said, his own well-used spoon dangling from his belt in a black cloth bag.
 Knowing how to sample and taste dark brown liquid -- known as cupping in the trade -- is indispensable for producing quality coffee. And producing gourmet coffee, the sort that will command top dollar in the United States, offers Rwanda a way out of the falling coffee prices caused by skyrocketing production that has affected all the world's producers since the mid-1990's and impoverished the peasants who engage in the backbreaking work of coffee cultivation.
 As the overall coffee market has stagnated, specialty coffee -- the trade term for the high-quality brew served by Starbucks and other upscale retailers -- has hit its stride. Retail sales in the United States have remained steady at about $20 billion, but specialty coffee has accounted for an ever-larger chunk of that market, 45 percent last year, up from 38 percent in 1999 and sharply less than that a decade earlier, according to the Specialty Coffee Association of America. 
 Coffee producers in Kenya and Ethiopia, which are known for coffee quality, have profited handsomely.
 Rwandan coffee producers, heavily aided by Western governments, are seeking not only to tap the specialty market, but also to assure a just distribution of the rewards. This assistance, furnished largely by the United States Agency for International Development, may eventually determine which approach best promotes broad-based economic growth: assistance for farmer collectives or credits for nimble entrepreneurs.
 Ms. Mukabavugirije has a role in the first approach. Her coffee cooperative, from the Maraba region of southern Rwanda, stands at the center of the American-backed Project Pearl; its goal is to make organized groups of farmers the hubs on which Rwanda's coffee industry would turn.
 If cooperatives can ensure quality, the farmers who form them will reap the benefits. Although few people here know the formal name, Pearl stands for Partnership to Enhance Agriculture in Rwanda through Linkages.
 Most importantly, Project Pearl has bankrolled the construction of a coffee-washing station that is owned by the Maraba cooperative.
 Rwanda's high altitude and rich soil provide the natural resources for good coffee, and a washing station finishes the job that nature begins. Consisting of pulping machines, washing basins and drying tables, the station extracts from the red coffee ''cherry'' the two light green beans that can be roasted and ground. Without washing, the fruit ferments on the bean, giving the final product an unpleasant taste.
 Project Pearl has also arranged for American and European roasters like Mr. Leach to travel to Rwanda and instruct farmers in coffee cupping.
 ''We're not trying to turn them into coffee rocket scientists,'' said Tim Schilling, the American director of Project Pearl. ''They need to monitor quality.''
 In addition to its own direct aid, which costs a total of $10 million, Project Pearl has facilitated grants from the World Bank, help from nongovernmental organizations, free advice from local universities, and in-kind help from the Rwandan government, including the land for Maraba's washing station. By all accounts Rwandan cooperatives have leaned heavily on Mr. Schilling, whose energetic work has animated the process for nearly four years, and he is expected to continue his work here at least through 2007.
 Juvenal Nkusi, who also works in the coffee industry, is part of the entrepreneurial approach. Mr. Nkusi, 40, comes from a family that has cultivated coffee for two generations, and owns a plantation with 110,000 bushes -- an enormous size for Rwanda. 
 Thanks to another project supported by the United States government to encourage and help entrepreneurs, Adar (short for its French name Assistance a la Dynamisation de l'Agribusiness au Rwanda), Mr. Nkusi built a washing station two years ago, and now processes coffee cherries from his farm in eastern Rwanda, and buys more cherries from both individual cultivators and several area cooperatives. 
 Mr. Nkusi took out a $150,000 loan at a hefty 16 percent interest rate to build his washing station, and he takes sole responsibility for ensuring the quality of the final product, and is entitled to the profits.
 ''If I screw up, everything is on my head,'' Mr. Nkusi said.
 He received money for a feasibility study to determine the best spot for the washing station, and for a Kenyan specialist to train his workers. 
 ''On paper, an association is perfect,'' said Maurice Wiener, chief of Adar. ''But I'm skeptical of the reality.'' Adar costs $10.5 million, but leaves out the additions that make Project Pearl a much more expensive undertaking.
 Since Project Pearl puts a premium on just rewards for farmers, it can rightly claim some early successes. The Maraba cooperative produced 138 tons of specialty coffee this year, its third, and remitted about $82 to each of the cooperative's 1,568 members on average, a significant sum in dollar-a-day territory, and one that is expected to grow.
 But in Mr. Nkusi's work, Adar, too, can claim to have found a workable model. From minimal production last year, Mr. Nkusi's washing station accelerated to produce 30 tons of coffee this year. And he notes with satisfaction that more farmers in his region are turning to coffee, some by stealing coffee plants from his own plantation.
 ''I have no problem with that,'' he said. ''If the coffee's good, they'll come to me for processing.''
 Ultimately, though, Rwanda's customers in the United States and Europe will deliver the final verdict on who makes the best coffee. Geoff Watts, vice president of Chicago-based Intelligentsia Coffee, began buying Rwandan coffee last year, and has found its cooperatives have delivered a quality product consistently, but Mr. Watts said that over time, their leadership tends to change, irritating customers who are looking for stable business relationships.
 ''The guys you're talking to this year may not be the ones you deal with next year,'' Mr. Watts said.
 Mr. Leach, having traipsed through Rwanda's hills and slurped coffee alongside its farmers, is agnostic on the matter of co-ops or entrepreneurs. Good coffee is good coffee, no matter its origin.
 ''It doesn't matter to me whether it's a co-op or not,'' he said. ''What I care about is the reliability of the partner.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Emerthe Mukabavugirije appraises coffee for her cooperative, which is from the Maraba region of southern Rwanda. She and other farmers are being trained to sample gourmet coffee. (Photo by Gianluigi Guercia for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Workers graded coffee beans at the Maraba coffee cooperative. The cooperative produced 138 tons of specialty coffee this year and remitted about $82 to each of the cooperative's 1,568 members on average. Rwanda's high altitude and rich soil provide the resources for growing coffee. (Photo by Gianluigi Guercia for The New York Times)(pg. W7)Map of Rwanda shows the location of Maraba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (94%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); RETAIL SALES (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) Coffee; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Aid ; Production; Farmers; Entrepreneurship

COMPANY: DIEDRICH COFFEE INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Agency for International Development

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (90%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

PERSON: Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (76%) Rwanda

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



574 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: More Osteoporosis, and More Drugs to Treat It

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 26 

 BODY:
The number of Americans with osteoporosis surged sevenfold over the past decade, coinciding with the development and marketing of new drugs to treat the bone-thinning condition, a study has found.
 As of 2003, osteoporosis had been diagnosed in an estimated 3.6 million people, compared with half a million people in 1994, according to the study by researchers at the Stanford Prevention Research Center at Stanford University. Also, the number of doctor visits for the condition increased to 6.3 million last year from 1.3 million in 1994. 
 The increases coincided with the introduction of three bone-protecting drugs: alendronate, made by Merck and sold as Fosamax, in 1995; raloxifene, or Evista, by Eli Lilly, in 1997; and risedronate, or Actonel, by Aventis, in 1998.
 The medications are among the nonhormonal alternatives to estrogen supplements, which have long been used to prevent osteoporosis but have lost popularity because of recent studies linking them to heart problems, breast cancer and other risks.
 In 2002, a large federal study of combination hormone therapy in postmenopausal women was halted ahead of schedule because the researchers concluded that the risks outweighed the benefits. In March, another arm of the study, of estrogen alone, was also stopped early.
 The new study found that in 1988, estrogen was prescribed in 35 percent of osteoporosis-related doctor visits, but the hormone was prescribed in only 3 percent of such visits last year.
 The estrogen alternatives have grown into a multibillion-dollar-a year industry with widespread advertisements and slick promotional campaigns that have helped raise awareness about osteoporosis. The researchers said that probably helped increase diagnosis rates.
 Partly because of the newer drugs, ''the whole way that we think about osteoporosis has shifted,'' to focus on prevention, said Dr. Randall Stafford, who led the study.
 ''We hope to catch it early enough to treat it early enough to prevent fractures,'' Dr. Stafford added.
 Nevertheless, osteoporosis remains underdiagnosed and undertreated, said Dr. Ethel Siris of the National Osteoporosis Foundation's science and research committee.
 Osteoporosis affects an estimated 10 million Americans, mostly women, who face a high risk of debilitating bone fractures, according to the osteoporosis foundation. An additional 34 million have less severe bone thinning that also increases the risk. The condition is diagnosed through tests of bone mineral density.
 The study's authors said new guidelines recommending universal screening for women 65 and older may further improve the diagnosis and treatment of the disease.
 The study appeared in the July 26 issue of Archives of Internal Medicine. Dr. Stafford and colleagues analyzed the frequency of visits to doctors for osteoporosis-related complaints from 1988 to 2003 and the patterns of drug prescription associated with the visits. They based their analysis on a national survey of physicians conducted by IMS Health, a health care information company. About 3,500 randomly selected doctors participate each quarter in the survey.
 Prescriptions for calcium, an older standard treatment for osteoporosis, fell during the study period. The authors had no data on sales of over-the-counter calcium pills. Dr. Stafford said the decrease was a concern because calcium remains an important way of helping to prevent osteoporosis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OSTEOPOROSIS (96%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (91%); MENOPAUSE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); CANCER (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BREAST CANCER (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%) Osteoporosis; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research; Tests and Testing; Age, Chronological; Osteoporosis

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (58%); SANOFI SA (57%); SIRIS (52%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%) Stanford University; Archives of Internal Medicine

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); LEL (LSE) (58%); SNY (NYSE) (57%); SANF (BIT) (57%); SAN (PAR) (57%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Randall (Dr) Stafford

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



575 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A Far-Reaching Fire Makes a Point About Pollution

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
In 1859, the American oceanographer Matthew Fontaine Maury, one of the first scientists to describe Earth's seas and skies as integrated systems, wrote, ''It is only the girdling encircling air, that flows above and around all, that makes the whole world kin.''
 Last week, a pair of globe-scanning NASA satellites, Terra and Aqua, reinforced that notion as they tracked the sooty remains of fire-swept Alaskan black spruce forests wafting high over coastal Louisiana and beyond. 
 Such measurements have increasingly been showing how pollution that was once perceived as local is, at least in part, global. By 2010, for example, scientists project that a third of the smog-forming ozone in California air will originate in the booming economies of Asia. 
 In this case, the link between the Far North and the Deep South started with fire-friendly conditions in Alaska. This has been one of the worst fire seasons in the state since 1950, when officials first started keeping records, with nearly four million acres burned in 492 fires so far -- more than half started by people and the rest by lightning. 
 The moist air that usually starts sweeping in from the Bering Sea by mid-July is absent, officials said, keeping forests vulnerable. And there has been ample lightning, with some 8,000 ground strikes estimated in a two-day stretch last week, said Gil Knight, a spokesman for the Alaska Fire Service. 
 The emissions from all that combustion took an unusual path. A week ago, the atmosphere over North America was in a pattern more typical of winter, with high pressure sitting over the West and low pressure running from Hudson Bay nearly to the Gulf of Mexico, said Scott Stephens, a meteorologist at the Commerce Department's National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C. 
 This sent the jet stream, essentially a speeding river of high-altitude air, veering far south of its normal Canada-spanning path, and the Alaskan smoke went along for the ride, at 100 miles an hour. 
 ''The smoke plumes just rode that all the way down through the Mississippi Valley,'' Mr. Stephens said. 
 That was only the first leg of the journey, though. 
 The same satellites that recorded the smoke flowing over the Big Easy on July 19, picked it up on July 21, as winds carried it past New York City and New England, where local weather forecasters noted a milky haze. 
 And the smoke has wandered even farther than that. Veils from the fires were recorded heading toward Greenland, carried by air currents high in the Arctic. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Smoke from fires in Alaska has traveled south. At right, a satellite image shows it hanging over Louisiana, bottom center, and other Southern states on July 19. (Photo by NASA)Map of North America highlights the path of the smoke from Alaska.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); FOREST FIRES (76%); FIRES (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); WEATHER (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); SMOG (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Air Pollution; Satellites; Terra (Spacecraft); Aqua (Spacecraft); Soot; Research; Fires and Firefighters

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) ALASKA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); EARTH (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); BERING SEA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ARCTIC (70%); CANADA (68%); ASIA (56%); GREENLAND (50%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



576 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Williams Retired Because of Overuse, Agent Says

BYLINE: By CHARLIE NOBLES

DATELINE: DAVIE, Fla., July 26 

 BODY:
Life after Ricky Williams has begun much earlier for the Miami Dolphins than they anticipated, in large part because they overused him, his agent said Monday.
 Williams, the Dolphins' standout running back, did not want to end his career by limping out of the N.F.L. after eight years the way Earl Campbell did, so he decided to retire at age 27, the agent, Leigh Steinberg, said. Campbell, an N.F.L. Hall of Famer, is Williams's role model and a fellow former University of Texas running back. 
 ''There was a lot of frustration about the battering ram nature of it,'' Steinberg said from his office in Newport Beach, Calif. ''In so many of his carries, he was running straight into the line. It took a heavy physical toll. Maybe it took an emotional toll.'' 
 Williams averaged 271 carries a year in three seasons with New Orleans, but he became the overriding focus of the Dolphins' offense as soon as he was traded to Miami before the 2002 season. He led the N.F.L. in carries in both of his seasons in Miami -- 383 in 2002, when he topped the league in rushing, and 392 last season.
 Though Steinberg emphasized that Williams was in the best condition of his career, he said it gave him pause to think that he had carried the ball 775 times over two seasons. That is more carries than many backs have in a career.
 ''The act of running a football into the waiting arms of 300-pound defensive tackles whose goal is to fling one to the turf time after time requires an extraordinary degree of passion and commitment,'' Steinberg said. ''And he found it lacking.''
 Dolphins Coach Dave Wannstedt maintains that his objective is to strike a balance between running and passing. Yet with quarterback Jay Fiedler limited in his throwing range and sometimes slowed by injuries, and with a lack of depth at wide receiver, much of the offensive burden fell to Williams. 
 By losing Williams, the Dolphins are in position to buy another top player but the timing could not be worse. They will save his $3.6 million salary against the salary cap. But with training camps scheduled to open this week, teams are preparing for the season, not looking to dump a franchise runner. 
 Williams's late announcement kept the Dolphins from having a shot at signing running back Eddie George, who was acquired by Dallas two days after Tennessee released him. The Dolphins have mulled the idea of picking up either James Stewart or Stacey Mack, two unemployed former starters, but they have apparently decided to wait.
 They plan to start training camp on Friday with Williams's backup, Travis Minor, as the starter. Minor averaged 4.7 yards a carry last season in 193 attempts. Sammy Morris, a fullback who came from Buffalo, might also get a serious look.
 Rick Spielman, the Dolphins' general manager, sounds as if he is inclined to wait until August before deciding whether to take a drastic measure, like a trade. That would give him time to both determine if Minor or Morris can replace Williams and scrutinize the running backs who might be cut.
 ''We've got a 65- and a 53-man cut coming up, so you don't know what's going to happen and what players might become available down the road,'' Spielman said this week. 
 Wannstedt said that even without Williams the remaining Dolphins are a formidable team. 
 ''We have quality players at every position, with a very good attitude, that have worked extremely hard,'' Wannstedt said Sunday after Williams announced his retirement. ''And our goals haven't changed. I really don't need to tell them that. They'll be telling me.''
 In the meantime, Steinberg said Williams was at peace with his decision, eager to travel, read, return to school and pursue photography as a hobby, for starters. But he said Williams would be tempted at some stage to return to the game.
 ''This is my 30th year of representing football players, and I haven't seen a player leave the game in any capacity and not have the desire to come back,'' Steinberg said. ''So there's no question that at some point, whether he knows it or not, he'll certainly have pangs.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dolphins' Ricky Williams had 383 carries in 2002 and 392 last season. He averaged 271 carries a year in three seasons with the Saints. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI DOLPHINS (94%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



577 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Africa: Sudan: Europe Calls For Sanctions

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The European Union joined the United States in pushing for imminent United Nations sanctions against Sudan if it does not rein in the pro-government Arab militias accused of ethnic cleansing against black Africans in its western Darfur region. While taking their tough line, the European officials did not go so far as to label the killings in Darfur genocide -- as Congress did last week. The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, will meet African leaders this week to discuss a proposed ''African solution'' to the crisis, a Nigerian spokeswoman said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (91%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (87%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (87%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (87%); WAR CRIMES (86%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%) European Union; United Nations

PERSON: Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); EUROPE (96%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



578 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: As It Goes Public, Google Says It Is Worth Up to $36 Billion

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL and GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
Amid a stock market sagging in summer doldrums, Google gave a bullish assessment of its worth yesterday.
 The popular Internet search company, which is attempting to sell shares to the public in an unconventional auction, said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday that it expected its shares to sell for $108 to $135 each.
 That would value the company at $29 billion to $36 billion, putting its market value just below the $38 billion value of Yahoo, a larger and far more mature Internet company. The most valuable Internet company, eBay, is worth $49 billion.
 ''On a pure valuation basis, this is expensive,'' said Andrew M. Schroepfer, president of Tier1 Research, a financial research firm specializing in technology. ''But if you have a creative mind like people did during the Internet bubble, it could look cheap.'' 
 Google's proposed price would value the company at 150 to 187 times its last four quarters of earnings. By contrast Yahoo is valued at 105 times its earnings.
 Google's filing came on the same day that a computer virus made its Web site unavailable to millions of computer users for several hours. The value the company puts on its shares, however, is little more than a signal; the actual price will be set by investors in the auction.
 Google is moving into the final weeks before its public offering, which it hopes to complete the week of Aug. 9, according to several executives involved. A Web site for investors to register for the offering, www.ipo.google.com, is expected to be activated in the next few days. 
 The offering comes as the technology-heavy Nasdaq market -- on which Google's shares will trade under the symbol GOOG -- faces a slump and is down 7.7 percent for the year. 
 In the meantime, Google's management has begun holding a series of meetings with investors, traditionally known as the road show. The company's top executives were scheduled to have cocktails in New York last night with an elite group of investors and then begin a series of broader meetings with investors today, according to several investment executives briefed on the meeting schedule.
 The gathering of elite investors is a distinct contrast to the democratic rhetoric Google used to explain its auction process, which treats bids from big institutions and small investors alike. A Google spokeswoman declined to comment about the company's share offering.
 Another potential disadvantage for small investors is that Google intends for its stock to sell for more than $100 a share. Most companies split their stock before a public offering, giving their existing holders more shares, in order for the initial price to be $10 to $20 a share. 
 Only one other company has had an initial offering with a share price of more than $100 -- Chicago and North Western Holdings, a railroad company that went public at $189.65 a share in 1989, according to Thomson Financial. 
 Such a move does not have any substantive financial effect. Small investors will be able to buy as few as five shares. But the conventional wisdom is that lower share prices are more attractive to individual investors. Google executives have said they would like to emulate Warren E. Buffett, the outspoken chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, who disdains stock splits. (His company closed at $87,110 a share yesterday, down $990 a share.) ''In theory it shouldn't matter what price a stock is,'' said John Tinker, managing director at Think Equity Partners, a small investment bank in San Francisco. ''But in practice people believe it's easier to sell more 10- or 20-dollar stock than it is to sell a $120 stock.''
 Some investors expect that the high interest in the company will lead to bidding well above the published range. But Google said that it, and its major shareholders, planned to increase the number of shares they sell if demand exceeded expectation. The additional shares would, in turn, hold the price down.
 Already, Google's stockholders -- mainly its employees and venture capitalists -- are selling far more shares in the initial offering than is typical. About 9 percent of the company's shares are being offered in the public sale. 
 Of the 24.6 million shares to be sold, 10.4 million are held by current shareholders. Google's two founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, each intend to sell 2.5 percent of their holdings, which could be worth as much as $130 million each, at the high end of the proposed pricing range. Eric Schmidt, the chief executive, plans to sell 5 percent of his shares, which could be worth $100 million. 
 After the offering, those three executives will control 38 percent of Google's shares, but they will have 60 percent of the votes, because their shares carry 10 times the voting power of those sold to the public.
 The company will use what is called a modified version of a Dutch auction, in which prospective investors indicate how many shares they want and the maximum price they are willing to pay. In a classic Dutch auction, the final price would be set at the highest price that will allow all the shares to be sold. 
 In earlier versions of its proposed prospectus, Google said it might set the offering price below the maximum price needed to sell all the shares. This would allow Google and its underwriters to make shares available to a wider group of investors and to facilitate an increase in the share price in the days after the offering. The current prospectus rewords that section. While it still indicates that Google could lower the offering price, it says more firmly that the company intends to set the offering price equal to the auction clearing price. 
 Google also disclosed in the filing that the Securities and Exchange Commission intends to bring a civil action against David C. Drummond, its general counsel, related to disclosure issues resulting from his previous job as the chief financial officer of SmartForce. According to the filing, Mr. Drummond intends to argue to the commission that the civil claims against him should not be brought.
 The company also released its financial results yesterday for the second quarter, in which it continued to grow rapidly with high profit margins. In the quarter, Google earned $79 million, up 147 percent from a year earlier. Its revenue was $700 million, up 125 percent. 
 Mark Maheney, an analyst with American Technology Research, said the proposed price range for the offering valued Google similarly to Yahoo because Google was growing faster. But he argued that Google should be valued at the low end of its proposed range. 
 ''I would prefer to give the stock a slight discount to Yahoo,'' he said, noting the company has a shorter track record. The offering also puts prospective investors at a disadvantage by giving insiders more voting power, he said. 
 In the most recent filing, Google changed how it reports revenue from advertising it sells that is displayed on the Web sites of other companies like America Online. In those arrangements, more than 80 percent of the money that advertisers pay goes to the owner of the site. Google had previously reported only its small share of those payments as revenue, not the amounts that it pays to other Web site owners. 
 Now it is reporting the total revenue, the same accounting treatment used by Yahoo, the other large company that sells search advertising. As a result, Google now reports revenue of $1.47 billion in last year rather than $962 million. 
 This is bad news for investors because it makes it harder to understand the revenue split between Google and its partners, said Marianne Wolk, an analyst with Susquehanna International Group.
 ''We lose a point of clarity,'' Ms. Wolk said.
 The Google deal coincides with a modest increase in the number of technology companies seeking to go public. More Internet-related companies filed to go public in the second quarter of 2004, said Richard J. Peterson, chief market strategist for Thomson Financial, than during any period since the third quarter of 2000.
 Yet the strength of investor demand for these new issues is another question. ''I certainly wouldn't characterize this as a hot time for Internet I.P.O.'s,'' said Barry Randall, who runs the $107 million First American Technology Fund, a mutual fund specializing in technology stocks, based in Minneapolis. 
 ''There've been other dot-com deals that have gone public as of late but some, like Orbitz, which went public late last year, haven't done well since their offering,'' Mr. Randall said. ''And even a company like Saleforce.com, which did reasonably well its first day, subsequently saw its price drop back down.''
 Salesforce saw its shares spike 56 percent in its June 23 debut, from $11 a share to $17.20. Shares in the company, a purveyor of an online service that helps sales people track customers and prospective clients, closed at $13.28 yesterday. 
 Of course, the size of the Google deal dwarfs all other technology public stock sales and makes any comparison difficult. Salesforce and Blackboard Inc., both of which have gone public in recent weeks, were two of the technology sector's more highly anticipated stock offerings -- and yet both would be considered tiny deals compared with Google. 
 ''There's nothing about Google that fits standard practices,'' Mr. Schroepfer of Tier1 Research said. ''That's what's wonderful and crazy about it at the same time.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sergei Brin, a founder of Google and its president for technology. (Photo by Peter Foley/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C3)Chart: ''In Rich Company''The estimated pricing for shares in Googles initial public offering, $108 to $135 each, values the company from $29 billion to $36 billion. Here's how that compares to the market value of some other well-known companies.Market value, in billionsMICROSOFT -- $309.4 billionINTEL -- $148.6COCA-COLA -- $107.9EBAY -- $48.8ANHEUSERBUSCH -- $41.5YAHOO -- $38.0GOOGLE -- $29.0 billion to $36.2 billionFORD -- $27.0AMAZON -- $15.8APPLE -- $11.9(Sources by Google
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The Cost of Admission''One share of Google will cost investors more than shares in any other sizable initial public offering.PRICE FOR ONE COMMON SHARE AT INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGGoogle -- $108 to 135Genentech -- 97.00Kinder Morgan Management -- 70.41Morgan Stanley -- 56.50Goldman Sachs -- 53.00United Parcel Service -- 50.00Freemarkets -- 48.00Centennial Savings and Loan -- 39.00Enbridge Energy Management -- 39.00Hamptons Bancshares -- 38.50(Source by Thomson Financial)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (73%) Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); CHICAGO & NORTH WESTERN HOLDINGS CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Google Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (58%) Saul Hansell; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



579 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:

IT'S THE OIL -- Why can't the airline industry make a buck? Passenger traffic has been rising by double digits each month since February. Under competitive pressure from discount carriers, most major airlines have managed to cut core costs significantly. Under normal circumstances, a ''normal recovery'' should be under way, said Sam Buttrick, an airline analyst at UBS. Airlines are still projected to report total losses of $550 million for the second quarter.
 High fuel prices are the main culprit, said John P. Heimlich, the chief economist for the Air Transport Association, the airline trade group, which is lobbying the federal government for relief from rising fuel prices. The group recently wrote to Unisys R2A Transportation Management Consultants to protest assertions in the Unisys Scorecard research report for June that continued operating inefficiencies, not fuel prices, are the main cause of the ''disastrous financial results'' at big carriers. ''Whatever you want to say about oil, we can't price that through,'' Mr. Heimlich said. ''We're consuming 18 billion gallons a year and every penny matters.'' The trade group said high oil prices have ''wiped out much of the hard-earned savings'' from things like cost-cutting and better fuel efficiency.

SMOOTH UNION -- American Express Corporate Travel says it has experienced a smooth merging of operations with Rosenbluth International, the big corporate travel-management company firm that it acquired last year ''We're virtually finished'' with the integration, including back office technology, said Pam Arway, the executive vice president of the American Express corporate travel unit. There is now ''no difference between American Express billing and systems and Rosenbluth's,'' she added. American Express Corporate Travel, which booked more than $15 billion in travel last year compared with more than $3 billion from Rosenbluth, is expected to announce next week some new procurement products along with a new logo and ad campaign.

RETHINKING PASSENGER SCREENING -- The National Business Travel Association, which holds its annual convention next week in Orlando, Fla., says it approves of new efforts by the Department of Homeland Security and the Transportation Security Administration to develop a passenger screening system that will ''ensure the interests of business travelers and corporate travel managers are being met.'' The government recently said it had largely abandoned a computer-based screening system that would have used government and commercial data banks to design instant profiles of passengers. Advocates for business travelers had opposed such a system because of concerns that it would invade privacy, be error-prone and create higher costs and more inconveniences for business travelers. ''It went against the grain of the average U.S. traveler to stand for investigation over the purchase of a plane ticket,'' the Association of Corporate Travel Managers said, applauding the demise of the proposed system, which was the second phase of a system set up in the 1990's.

SELF-SERVICE BOOKING GROWS -- Online booking now represents about 60 percent of travel reservations at companies that provide internal Internet booking portals, according to a survey by GetThere, a supplier of corporate booking technology for more than 1,000 companies. Last year, the comparable figure was 53 percent, said GetThere, a unit of the Sabre Holdings Corporation. The survey, of companies whose annual air-travel budgets range from $1 million to more than $100 million, also found that business travelers in mid-size companies are more likely to use internal booking tools than those in larger corporations. Online booking saves money by reducing the need to use an internal or third-party travel agent. JOE SHARKEY


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Noah Berger/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); LOBBYING (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); DIVESTITURES (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Travel and Vacations; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Security and Warning Systems; Computers and the Internet; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (82%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (59%) Air Transport Assn; American Express Co; Rosenbluth International; National Business Travel Assn; Homeland Security Department; Transportation Security Administration; Getthere.com

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: John Heimlich; Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



580 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A Simple Message Aimed at the Middle

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 26 

 BODY:
Franklin Roosevelt spoke of the ''forgotten man,'' Bill Clinton of the ''forgotten middle class.'' Now the Democratic Party of Senator John Kerry is reaching for that long -- and politically successful -- legacy with a promise to ease the ''middle-class squeeze'' and restore the booming economy of the Clinton years.
 To that end, the Democratic National Convention on Monday night offered a simple message about the economy: It was better under the Democrats. The middle class had a brighter future. And Mr. Kerry has a plan to restore middle-class prosperity -- to stem the loss of jobs overseas, to ease the burden of rising health, education and energy costs on families, to get the nation's fiscal house and economy in order. 
 Indeed, it was Bill Clinton himself who stood before a national television audience on Monday night and made the case, as he did so often in 1992, that the economic future need not be feared -- and that the Democrats offered a better choice when it came to tax and budget policy. He scoffed at the Republicans' decision to give big tax cuts to wealthy Americans like himself while, he asserted, shortchanging critical national needs like education. He criticized the Republicans for turning a huge surplus into a deficit.
 Again and again, he said voters faced a choice. If they liked the status quo, he said, stick with the Republicans. If not, he said,''take a look at John Kerry, John Edwards and the Democrats -- we've got a very different economic policy.''
 ''Our way works better,'' he said.
 It was not the party's only message. More than any other Democratic nominee in recent years, Mr. Kerry has run on national security issues, and the steady drumbeat from this convention is the promise of an America ''stronger at home, and respected in the world.'' Former President Jimmy Carter told the convention that ''the biggest reason to make John Kerry president'' was to ''safeguard the security of our nation.'' Others echoed the point.
 But in the swing states that will decide the general election this fall, the economy remains a central issue. So speaker after speaker, from a steel worker in Canton, Ohio, to members of the House and Senate to Mr. Clinton and his vice president, Al Gore, made the case that the nation needed more -- and better paying -- jobs, a shift in national priorities, a return to Democratic economic policies.
 Republicans have characterized Mr. Kerry as a pessimist, unwilling to acknowledge that the nation is in a strong recovery and employment is on the rise. 
 But for months now, and again through the Democratic speakers Monday night, Mr. Kerry has made a subtler argument: that there are deeper problems in the economy that make it harder for families to get ahead, and that the Bush administration is pursuing ''an economic policy indifferent to the export of our jobs and indifferent to the health care costs that crush our middle class,'' as Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut put it when she presented the party's platform.
 Mr. Kerry's signature domestic proposal, an ambitious plan to expand health coverage and lower its costs, is directed in large part at the strained families of the middle class. At a cost of $650 billion over 10 years, the plan would try to cover all uninsured children and most adults by a combination of tax credits and expansion of programs like Medicaid. But its most innovative feature is intended to reduce premium costs for families who are already covered, but are feeling the weight of three consecutive years of double-digit percentile premium increases.
 The federal government would pick up 75 percent of the cost of the most expensive medical cases -- those costing more than $50,000 in a year -- if employers guarantee to pass the savings along to their workers by reducing premiums.
 The plan, many health analysts say, is an effort to learn from the disastrous experience under Mr. Clinton, whose bid to create national health insurance drew heavy fire and ultimately alarmed many middle-class voters.
 Kerry campaign advisers said they were delighted to have Mr. Clinton begin making the case for a return to economic stewardship by the Democrats. The aides said that their polls showed that a large majority of voters regarded the Clinton-era economy as a halcyon time. 
 At the same time, a variety of polls show the public in a worried mood about the country's current direction; 36 percent to 42 percent in The New York Times/CBS News Poll this year have said the country is headed in the right direction, 51 percent to 57 percent have said it is on the wrong track. Those ratings do not match the pessimism of 1992 and 1980, when the voters rejected incumbent presidents, but they are still considered signs of lingering economic fears.
 Moreover, voters in some crucial swing states -- particularly Ohio -- are concerned about their economic futures, many analysts say. Kerry advisers credit Mr. Kerry's current lead in Ohio, based on a new USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll, to his focus on the ''middle-class squeeze.''
 Mr. Kerry's domestic agenda is rooted in Democratic tradition in another way: he would finance his proposed new spending by rolling back the Bush tax cuts for those making more than $200,000 a year. Democrats assert that the shift is a simple matter of fairness, diverting government resources from those who do not need help to those who do. Republicans counter that it is just the start of a return to Democratic ''tax and spend.''
 Representative Stephanie Tubbs Jones of Ohio offered the core Democratic promise on the domestic agenda ''after four years of a Kerry-Edwards administration.'' 
 ''We'll have 10 million new jobs; a deficit half the size it is now; tax cuts to help those who are struggling to stay in the middle class and struggling to get there pay for things like health care and college tuition; and a minimum wage raised to seven dollars an hour,'' Ms. Jones said.
 In fact, Mr. Kerry has proposed new tax credits to encourage the creation of manufacturing jobs and to help families with child care and college tuition, as well as more public school financing. 
 Republicans argue that it is a set of promises that do not add up. Both parties will be making their arguments across the fall, looking to appeal to a narrow slice of undecided voters beset by economic worries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TAX LAW (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); TERRORISM (59%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); United States Economy; Taxation; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Education and Schools; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); AL GORE (58%) Robin Toner; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



581 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton: 'They Need a Divided America. But We Don't.'

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from the speech by Bill Clinton last night at the Democratic National Convention in Boston, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is at nytimes.com/campaigns.
 My friends, after three conventions as a candidate or a president, tonight I come to you as a citizen, returning to the role that I have played for most of my life as a foot soldier in our fight for our future, as we nominate in Boston a true New England patriot for president. Now this state, who gave us in other times of challenge John Adams and John Kennedy, has now given us John Kerry, a good man, a great senator, a visionary leader. And we are all here to do what we can to make him the next president of the United States. 
 My friends, we are constantly being told that America is deeply divided. But all Americans value freedom and faith and family. We all honor the service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform in Iraq, Afghanistan and throughout the world. We all want good jobs, good schools, health care, safe streets, a clean environment. We all want our children to grow up in a secure America leading the world toward a peaceful and prosperous future. Our differences are in how we can best achieve these things, in a time of unprecedented change. 
 Therefore, we Democrats will bring the American people this year a positive campaign, arguing not who's good or a bad person, but what is the best way to build the safe and prosperous world our children deserve. 
 The 21st century is marked by serious security threats, serious economic challenges and serious problems from AIDS to global warming to the continuing turmoil in the Middle East. But it is also full of amazing opportunities -- to create millions of new jobs in clean energy and biotechnology, to restore our manufacturing base and reap the benefits of the global economy through our diversity and our commitment to decent labor and environmental standards for people all across the world, and to create a world where we can celebrate our religious, our racial, our ethnic, our tribal differences, because our common humanity matters most of all. 
 To build that kind of world we must make the right choices -- and we must have a president who will lead the way. Democrats and Republicans have very different and deeply felt ideas about what choices we should make. They're rooted in fundamentally different views of how we should meet our common challenges at home and how we should play our role in the world. We Democrats want to build a world and an America of shared responsibilities and shared benefits. We want a world with more global cooperation, where we act alone only when we absolutely have to. We think the role of government should be to give people the tools and to create the conditions to make the most of their own lives, and we think everybody should have that chance.
 On the other hand, Republicans in Washington believe that America should be run by the right people, their people, in a world in which America acts unilaterally when we can, and cooperates when we have to. They believe the role of government is to concentrate wealth and power in the hands of those who embrace their economic, political and social views, leaving ordinary citizens to fend for themselves on important matters like health care and retirement security. 
 Now, since most Americans aren't that far to the right, our friends have to portray us Democrats as simply unacceptable, lacking in strength and values. In other words, they need a divided America. But we don't.
 Americans long to be united. After 9/11, we all just wanted to be one nation. Not a single American on Sept. 12, 2001, cared who won the next presidential election. All we wanted to do was to be one country, strong in the fight against terror, helping to heal those who were wounded and the families of those who lost their loved ones, reaching out to the rest of the world so we could meet these new challenges and go on with our democratic way of life. The president had an amazing opportunity to bring the county together under his slogan of compassionate conservatism, and to unite the world in the struggle against terror. 
 Instead, he and his Congressional allies made a very different choice. They chose to use that moment of unity to try to push the country too far to the right and to walk away from our allies, not only in attacking Iraq before the weapons inspectors had finished their work, but in withdrawing American support for the Climate Change Treaty and the International Court on war criminals, and for the Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and from the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. 
 Now at a time when we're trying to get other people to give up nuclear and biological and chemical weapons, they are trying to develop two new nuclear weapons, which they say we might use first.
 At home, the president and the Republican Congress have made equally fateful choices, which they also deeply believe in. For the first when America was on a war footing in our whole history, there were two huge tax cuts, nearly half of which went to the top 1 percent. Now, I'm in that group now for the first time in my life and you might remember that when I was in office, on occasion, the Republicans were kind of mean to me. But as soon as I got out and made money, I became part of the most important group in the world to them. It was amazing. I never thought I'd be so well-cared for by the president and the Republicans in Congress. I almost sent them a thank-you you note for my tax cuts -- until I realized that the rest of you were paying the bill for it and then I thought better of it. 
 Now, look at the choices they made, choices they believed in. They chose to protect my tax cut at all costs, while withholding promised funding for the Leave No Child Behind Act, leaving over 2.1 million children behind. They chose to protect my tax cut while cutting 140,000 unemployed workers out of job training programs, 100,000 working families out of their child care assistance, and, worst of all, while cutting 300,000 poor children out of after-school programs when we know it keeps them off the streets, out of trouble, in school learning, going to college and having a good life. 
 They chose to protect my tax cuts while dramatically raising out of pocket costs of health care to our veterans and while weakening or reversing very important environmental measures that Al Gore and I put into place, everything from clean air to the protection of our forests. 
 Now, in this time everyone in America had to sacrifice except the wealthiest Americans, and most of us, almost all of us, from Republicans to independents and Democrats, we want to be asked to do our part too, but all they asked us to do was to expend energy necessary to open the envelopes containing our tax cuts. Now, if you like these choices and you agree with them, you should vote to return them to the White House and the Congress. If not, take a look at John Kerry, John Edwards and the Democrats. ...
 Now, let me tell you what I know about John Kerry. I've been seeing all the Republican ads about him. Let me tell you what I know about him. During the Vietnam War, many young men -- including the current president, the vice president and me -- could have gone to Vietnam and didn't. John Kerry came from a privileged background. He could have avoided it too. But instead he said, send me.
 When they sent those Swift boats up the river in Vietnam, and they told them their job was to draw hostile fire -- to wave the American flag and bait the enemy to come out and fight -- John Kerry said, send me. 
 And then, on my watch, when it was time to heal the wounds of war and normalize relations with Vietnam -- and to demand an accounting of the POW's and MIA's we lost there -- John Kerry said, send me. 
 Then when we needed someone to push the cause of inner-city children struggling to avoid a life of crime, or to bring the benefits of high technology to ordinary Americans, or to clean the environment in a way that created new jobs, or to give small businesses a better chance to make it, John Kerry said, send me. 
 So tonight my friends, I ask you to join me for the next 100 days in telling John Kerry's story and promoting his ideas: let every person in this hall and like-minded people all across America say to him what he has always said to America: send me.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (87%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); RELIGION (68%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); ARMED FORCES (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



582 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 5; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Al Gore: 4 Years Ago, Fervent Advice And Regrets

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from the speech by Al Gore last night at the Democratic National Convention in Boston, as recorded by The New York Times. A full transcript is at nytimes.com/campaigns
 I'm going to be candid with you. I had hoped to be back here this week under different circumstances, running for re-election. But you know the old saying: You win some, you lose some. And then there's that little-known third category.
 But I didn't come here tonight to talk about the past. After all, I don't want you to think that I lie awake at night counting and recounting sheep. I prefer to focus on the future, because I know from my own experience that America's a land of opportunity, where every little boy and girl has a chance to grow up and win the popular vote.
 In all seriousness, I am deeply, deeply grateful for the opportunity you have given me to serve my country. I want to thank you as Democrats for the honor of being your nominee for president four years ago and for all you did for me and for our country. And I want to thank the American people for the privilege of serving as vice president of the United States. Most of all, I want to thank my family with all my heart: my children and grandchildren, especially my beloved partner in life, Tipper.
 I love this country deeply. Wasn't BeBe Winans great? I believe that's the best national anthem I've ever heard sung. I love this country deeply, and even though I always look to the future with optimism and hope, I do think it's worth pausing for just a moment as we begin this year's convention, to take note of two very important lessons from four years ago. 
 The first lesson is this: Take it from me, every vote counts. In our democracy, every vote has power. And never forget that power is yours. Don't let anyone take it away from you or talk you into throwing it away.
 And let's make sure that this time every vote is counted. Let's make sure that the Supreme Court does not pick the next president, and that this president is not the one who picks the next Supreme Court.
 The second lesson from 2000 is this: What happens in a presidential election matters. A lot. The outcome profoundly affects the lives of all 293 million Americans, and people in the rest of the world, too. The choice of who is president affects your life and your family's future.
 And never has that been more true than in 2004, because -- let's face it -- our country faces deep challenges. These challenges we now confront are not Democratic or Republican challenges; they are American challenges that we all must overcome together as one people, as one nation.
 And it is in that spirit, that I sincerely ask those watching at home tonight who supported President Bush four years ago: did you really get what you expected from the candidate you voted for? Is our country more united today? Or more divided? Has the promise of compassionate conservatism been fulfilled? Or do those words now ring hollow?
 For that matter, are the economic policies really conservative at all? For example, did you expect the largest deficits in history, year after year? One right after another? And the loss of more than a million jobs?
 By the way, I know about the bad economy. I was the first one laid off. And while it's true that new jobs are being created, they're just not as good as the jobs people have lost. And incidentally, that's been true for me, too. Unfortunately, this is no joke for millions of Americans. And the real solutions require us to transcend partisanship. So that's one reason why, even though we meet here as Democrats, we believe this is a time to reach beyond our party lines to Republicans as well.
 And I also ask tonight for the consideration and the help of those who supported a third-party candidate in 2000. I urge you to ask yourselves this question: Do you still believe that there was no difference between the candidates? Are you troubled by the erosion of America's most basic civil liberties? Are you worried that our environmental laws are being weakened and dismantled to allow vast increases in pollution that are contributing to a global climate crisis? No matter how you voted in the last election, these are profound problems that all voters must take into account this Nov. 2.
 And, of course, no challenge is more critical than the situation we confront in Iraq. Regardless of your opinion at the beginning of this war, isn't it now abundantly obvious that the way this war has been managed by the administration has gotten us into very serious trouble? 
 Wouldn't we be better off with a new president who hasn't burned his bridges to our allies, and who could rebuild respect for America in the world? Isn't cooperation with other nations crucial to solving our dilemma in Iraq? Isn't it also critical to defeating the terrorists?
 We have to be crystal clear about the threat we face from terrorism. It is deadly. It is real. It is imminent. But in order to protect our people, shouldn't we focus on the real source of this threat: the group that attacked us and is trying to attack us again: Al Qaeda, headed by Osama bin Laden? Wouldn't we be safer with a president who didn't insist on confusing Al Qaeda with Iraq? Doesn't that divert too much of our attention away from the principal danger?
 I want to say to all Americans this evening that whether it's the threat to the global environment or the erosion of America's leadership in the world, whether it is the challenge to our economy from new competitors or the challenge to our security from new enemies, I believe we need new leadership that is both strong and wise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (90%) Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



583 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Budget Survives, As Court Limits Future Debt

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 26 

 BODY:
In a decision that is expected to control the state's rising debt, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled Monday that beginning next year, the state cannot borrow money to balance the budget as it did this year. 
 By allowing Gov. James E. McGreevey to proceed with $1.9 billion in borrowing for the current fiscal year, which began July 1, the court averted a scramble for revenue to replace it. The borrowed money accounts for nearly 7 percent of the governor's $28 billion budget. 
 Republicans who had brought the challenge sought to force a legislative session this summer to revise the budget, and on Monday they repeated their call for new budget cuts. But the Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature, rejected the idea. 
 And Mr. McGreevey said in a statement, ''I am grateful the Supreme Court upheld the priorities of this budget.'' 
 Still, Leonard Lance, the Senate Republican leader and the lead plaintiff in the case, called it a ''monumental and historic victory'' that would ease the state's long-term debt. 
 The justices held that borrowed funds did not constitute revenue within the meaning of the State Constitution's requirement of a balanced budget. Therefore, the court said, the funds could not be used to pay general operating expenses, although the state may continue to borrow for capital projects. 
 The attorney general's office argued that all money available to the state should count as revenue, an argument that at least one justice, Peter G. Verniero, implicitly rejected when he asked in oral arguments whether the state could cancel all taxes for a year and borrow the entire budget.
 But because the court was ruling for the first time on the meaning of the word ''revenue,'' it said, its decision would apply only to future budgets.
 Some Republicans disputed the court's reasoning; Steven M. Lonegan, the mayor of Bogota in Bergen County, questioned why the court was allowing a constitutional mandate ''to be set aside when it becomes inconvenient.'' 
 ''This decision was a weak one,'' he said.
 Mr. Lonegan has emerged as a vocal opponent of state borrowing. In April 2003, in a challenge he brought, the Supreme Court rejected his argument that all bond issues must go before the voters; it held that bonds issued by authorities were not subject to that constitutional requirement because they do not obligate the state treasury to repay the debt. 
 The borrowing authorized in the current budget, to be secured by increases in the cigarette tax and motor vehicle fines, will be issued by the Economic Development Authority and the proceeds turned over to the Treasury Department. The authority has already authorized $2.7 billion in borrowing, including $800 million to be set aside for interest payments.
 The decision Monday in Lance v. McGreevey was joined by all five justices who heard the case, although Justice Jaynee LaVecchia dissented in part, saying that the State Constitution does not foreclose the classification of some types of bond proceeds as revenue.
 Justices Virginia Long, who is recovering from an automobile accident, and Barry T. Albin did not participate in the case. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (84%)

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



584 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: Market Place; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: After a Recall, Boston Scientific Tries to Assure Wary Investors

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Boston Scientific says it was still clinging to its lead in the market for drug-coated stents, despite its recall of some devices about 10 days ago. But while company executives sought to reassure investors yesterday in a conference call that it had fixed the problem with the device, some doctors say the next few weeks will be critical to determining whether the issue has been resolved. 
 ''What will be the most reassuring is the passage of time,'' said Dr. Deepak L. Bhatt, an interventional cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, where some doctors have still not resumed using the Taxus stents. Many investors, though, seemed convinced by the company's assurances and the strong second-quarter results announced yesterday. The shares, which had fallen by nearly a fifth since Boston Scientific announced a recall on July 16, rose $2.12 a share to close at $35.71. 
 ''Despite the recall, we had a blow-out quarter,'' James R. Tobin, chief executive of Boston Scientific, said in the conference call.
 In the first full quarter that reflected sales of the Taxus, the company's profits tripled to $377 million, compared with $126 million for last year's second quarter. Sales reached nearly $1.5 billion, compared with $854 million in a year earlier.
 ''Taxus was and still is the preferred product by a wide margin,'' Mr. Tobin said. 
 Stents are meshlike devices used by doctors to prop open coronary arteries and prevent heart attacks.
 The drug-coating significantly reduces the need for further angioplasties by reducing the scar tissue that reblocks arteries. 
 After it began selling the Taxus in March in the United States, Boston Scientific snatched the bulk of the market from Johnson & Johnson, whose drug-coated stent, the Cypher, was the first of its kind when introduced last year. 
 Boston Scientific claimed to have about 70 percent of the market, and many doctors described the Taxus as easier to use than the Cypher.
 Boston Scientific first recalled a limited number of the Taxus stents on July 2, after some doctors reported difficulties removing the balloon used to inflate the stent in the patient's artery. After receiving reports of 3 deaths and 43 injuries because of deflation problems, the company on July 16 recalled nearly 100,000 stents. Patients who already have stents were not affected by the recall. 
 ''Our response was to take all the Taxus items off the shelves,'' said Dr. John W. Hirshfeld, who is an interventional cardiologist with the University of Pennsylvania Health System, ''just because we didn't want to take any chances.'' 
 Boston Scientific says it identified the cause of the problem, a design flaw, and has already changed how it makes its stents to address the defect that leads to problems in some cases. 
 The company said that it had already replaced all of the recalled stents in the United States and that there had been no reports of problems with newly shipped stents. Since the broader recall, the new stents have been used in 30,000 to 40,000 patients, the company said. 
 The company said it was also working closely with the Food and Drug Administration to ensure that there were no lingering questions. Federal regulators so far have found no problems with one of the production plants at which some of the problematic stents were made, the company said. 
 ''There's clearly turmoil and turbulence in the market caused by the recall,'' said Paul A. LaViolette, a senior vice president for Boston Scientific, who said the company's share of the market had fallen as low as 55 percent because of concern over the stent. 
 ''Things could have been much worse,'' Mr. LaViolette said. Boston Scientific says its share has now recovered to at least 60 percent of the market. 
 Although Johnson & Johnson clearly gained market share in the days after the recall, the company does not have the ability to produce enough of the competing stents for doctors to overwhelming switch to the rival device, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, Daniel T. Lemaitre, said. 
 Johnson & Johnson said it would increase production to meet any customer needs. 
 Doctors are also unlikely to abandon the use of drug-coated stents altogether and revert to what are called bare-metal stents that increase the likelihood of scarring, Mr. Lemaitre said. They will ''balk at using bare metal stents, given the superior clinical outcomes of drug-eluting stents,'' he told investors in a note. 
 Although some risk remains that additional problems will be discovered, Mr. Lemaitre said it was highly unlikely that the Taxus would be pulled from the United States market. In his view, that makes the stock an attractive investment at current prices. 
 Some doctors say Boston Scientific reacted appropriately to the problems and they say they feel comfortable continuing to use the Taxus. ''We didn't have a problem,'' said Dr. Ramon Quesada, an interventional cardiologist at Baptist Cardiac and Vascular Institute in Miami. ''We don't have a problem.'' 
 But other doctors say they are being cautious. ''I think there is still a lot of uncertainty for interventional cardiologists to use the device,'' said Dr. Igor F. Palacios, an interventional cardiologist at Massachusetts General Hospital, where doctors recently met with Boston Scientific officials. While Dr. Palacios said the company assured doctors that they had identified the problem and fixed it, he said he was still waiting for federal regulators to weigh in. Meanwhile, he is using the Cypher stent. 
 ''We have it on hold right now,'' he said of the Taxus. ''We would like to have some reassurance from the F.D.A.''
 Dr. Campbell D. Rogers, an interventional cardiologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said doctors there were waiting to meet with company executives in the next day or so to discuss the issue. 
 ''We need to have direct insight into what they have found and the justification for saying the devices are now safe,'' he said.
 In a matter of weeks, Dr. Rogers said, enough of the stents that are supposed to be free of the defect will have been in use so that doctors will feel comfortable as long as no further problems emerge. 
 But Boston Scientific also needs to hope that a rare event does not become magnified, he said. ''It has to be pretty much batting a thousand for a time,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Despite the recall, we had a blow-out quarter,'' James R. Tobin, chief executive of Boston Scientific, said in a conference call yesterday. Some doctors have still not resumed using the stents that were recalled. (Photo by Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); DEFLATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%) Heart; Stents (Medical Devices); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Recalls and Bans of Products

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (65%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH SYSTEM (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Boston Scientific Corp

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (90%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (65%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (61%)

PERSON: JAMES R TOBIN (89%) James R Tobin; Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



585 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: From Lobbied to Lobbying

 BODY:
The newest lobbying group in Washington is a party of four. The governors of California, New York, Texas and Florida have joined to press Congress on their special needs as the largest states in the union. Their states might, as their introductory letter to Congressional leaders pointed out, ''represent over one-third of the nation's gross domestic product,'' but in the Capitol, they feel overlooked. 
 Even in Washington, where chimney sweeps and acupuncturists have groups to push legislative priorities, the idea of a special interest group of Very Big States seems a little strange. New York does labor under a disadvantage: in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, where big population is supposed to mean big clout, New York's mainly Democratic delegation has about as much power as the Scenic Byways Caucus. But if Florida, home of both the chairman of the Appropriations Committee and the Brother Governor, feels ignored, politics as we know it has gone deeply awry.
 These big-state governors are mainly united by a conviction that the world would be a much better place if money went to the states on a per capita basis. This flies in the face of the larger political rule that when there are goodies to be dispensed, everybody gets a taste, and everybody represented by two Republican senators gets second helpings. The Founding Fathers, without realizing it, handed down a system in which a voter in Montana is always going to be worth way more than a voter in California. 
 All these big-state governors happen to be Republicans, but according to an article in The Times by Raymond Hernandez and Al Baker, the moving force behind the new caucus is Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. That makes sense. He's always been a Big Is Better kind of guy, and ever since he was elected he's been demanding that his fellow Republicans in Washington help bail his state out of his current financial mess. The party is planning to use his movie star celebrity at its convention next month. Perhaps Mr. Schwarzenegger, who knows a lot about negotiating deals, could hold out for a redistribution of the federal antiterrorism money so Wyoming is no longer the biggest winner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) Editorials; Lobbying and Lobbyists; States (US); Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; California; New York State; Texas; Florida

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



586 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Worth Watching

 BODY:

Among the speakers on this evening's program.

Ron Reagan
Son of President Ronald Reagan
 After his father's death last month, Ron Reagan made it clear that he wanted no part of his father's party, at least if that party's candidate was President Bush. Mr. Reagan took a veiled swipe at Mr. Bush at his father's funeral, when he said that his father never mixed religion and politics for political gain. ''Dad was also a deeply, unabashedly religious man,'' Mr. Reagan said. ''But he never made the fatal mistake of so many politicians -- wearing his faith on his sleeve to gain political advantage.'' He has since denounced Mr. Bush for limiting financing for stem-cell research. Scientists say the work could lead to a cure for Alzheimer's disease, the illness that debilitated Mr. Reagan's father.
 Tom Daschle of South Dakota has led his party in the Senate for the past 10 years, but when he speaks tonight, it will be not only on Mr. Kerry's behalf, but also on his own. Mr. Daschle finds himself in an unexpectedly tight Senate race in South Dakota against former Representative John Thune and will benefit from the opportunity and the audience. Mr. Daschle has criticized the administration as allowing partisan bickering to derail legislation on the economy and national security, but some Democrats say those critiques have not been loud enough. Still, Mr. Daschle's soft voice could be an asset to the Kerry campaign, which received some unwelcome attention after Mr. Kerry's recent high-octane fund-raiser in New York.

Richard A. Gephardt
Representative
 Six months ago, it became clear to Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri that his party was not going to nominate him for president. By then, he had developed a strong relationship with Mr. Kerry, who in December said that he would support Mr. Gephardt if he himself were not in the race. After Mr. Kerry won the Iowa primary, Mr. Gephardt bowed out and threw his support behind the Massachusetts senator. Mr. Gephardt, with nearly 30 years of Congressional experience, brings with him the support of many Democrats in the conservative Midwest.

Carol Moseley Braun
Former senator
 Fund-raising has haunted Carol Moseley Braun for much of her political career, from an audit by the Federal Election Commission of her 1992 Illinois Senate campaign to the $100,000 debt that crippled her long-shot quest for the presidency this year. Ms. Moseley Braun spoke passionately about health care and access to higher education, issues important to Mr. Kerry's campaign, before dropping out after the Iowa caucuses. She came late to the Kerry campaign, first supporting Howard Dean and mobilizing women and black voters on his behalf.

Christie Vilsack
Wife of Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa
 Until Mr. Kerry tapped John Edwards as his running mate, Christie Vilsack had a chance at the title of second lady. Her husband was on Mr. Kerry's short list of potential running mates, and reporters tracked the couple's movements until Mr. Kerry finally let his decision be known. Now, the spotlight returns to Mrs. Vilsack, as she leads the convention delegation from Iowa. Ms. Vilsack also leads a grass-roots literacy program in Iowa and a children's book club. Some liken her to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for taking an active role in her husband's administration, albeit usually backstage. Yesterday, a story in The Boston Herald suggested that she ''derided blacks, Southerners and Easterners as bad speakers'' when she complained about regional dialects in columns for The Mount Pleasant News in the mid-1990's. Mrs. Vilsack denied any bias.


Tom Daschle
Senator

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (54%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%); TOM DASCHLE (79%); TOM VILSACK (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); JOHN THUNE (58%) Ron Reagan; Tom (Sen) Daschle

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



587 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 2; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS: NEW YORK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Delegates Focus on Rivalries, Seats and Defeating Bush

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 26 

 BODY:
When Senator Charles E. Schumer addressed his fellow New York State delegates over breakfast here Monday morning, he went out of his way to stress the unity of the state's Democrats and to heap praise on State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who is seen as a potential rival should the senator run for governor in 2006.
 But with Mr. Schumer, a powerful incumbent who is up for re-election this year as part of a Democratic National Convention delegation that includes a former first lady as the state's junior senator, a Wall-Street-busting attorney general waiting in the wings and at least five would-be mayors of New York City eyeing each other warily, there was no shortage of sensitivities, conspiracy theories and potentially bruised egos.
 The New York Democrats, a traditionally factious group, were united in their field trip here to help nominate their party's challenger to President Bush. They were in good spirits and optimistic about their party's prospects in the fall. And they basked in the glow of the Clintons' prime-time speeches, which were rife with 9/11 references and calls for more federal antiterrorism aid for New York City. But beneath the surface, they could barely paper over the tensions in the delegation. 
 And with little role to play at a modern, preordained convention, they had time to focus some of their attention inward, toward perceived slights and internecine feuds. Feeding the chatter was a report in The New York Post -- strongly denied by both camps -- that Mr. Schumer had blocked Mr. Spitzer from a speaking role at the convention. 
 Much was also made of the absence of Thomas R. Suozzi, the first Democrat to be elected Nassau County executive in three decades, who was blocked from being a delegate by the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, who controls the state party. Mr. Silver is upset by Mr. Suozzi's efforts to unseat Democrats as well as Republicans as part of his campaign to change the way state government works in Albany. 
 So when Mr. Suozzi strolled into Mr. Silver's hotel lobby Monday morning sporting a convention pass that the national party and the Kerry campaign gave him -- a pass that is even better than the one that mere delegates get -- the symbolism was clear. 
 Still, Mr. Suozzi spoke of unity. ''While we're here in Boston, we're all unified and behind John Kerry to make sure he gets elected president.''
 There was unity in at least one thing: supporting the Yankees over the Red Sox. Some delegates took in two of those games over the weekend.
 But there was also scorekeeping of another kind. It was lost on no one that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and her entourage seemed to suck up all the air in the room when they walked into Mr. Silver's welcoming reception. And others labored to read the body language when Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Schumer crossed paths in their hotel lobby.
 For many New York conventiongoers, the talk was not about the nation at war, or the uncertain economy, but about buttons, big round buttons. 
 The state's official delegate button pictured two candidates: John Kerry and the other man on the ticket Charles E. Schumer. (One attendee said it bought to mind Zelig.) New York delegates were quickly abuzz: was this some slight to John Edwards? To Mrs. Clinton? To Mr. Spitzer? Aides to Mr. Schumer said that they had nothing to do with making the pin, and state Democrats said that it was simply a reminder that Mr. Schumer would be on the ballot this November. 
 But the buttons seemed only to fuel speculation about another favorite topic of the day: did Mr. Schumer really move, behind the scenes, to deny Mr. Spitzer a speaking role at the convention? Aides to both men categorically denied the Post article, under the headline ''Chuck Gets Eliot Banned in Boston.'' 
 Aides to Mr. Schumer noted that he took a 30-mile bicycle ride through Boston on Monday, which they said was hardly the sign of someone involved in furious Machiavellian machinations. But the fact that the story gained so much traction among New York delegates pointed to the widespread belief that both men want to be governor and are destined to collide in a 2006 Democratic primary.
 Of course, there were also more serious matters that had members of the delegation fuming, like their seats in the convention hall. The New York delegation did not get a choice spot on the floor, and in what some took as a sign of the state's diminished standing, quite a few of its seats have no view of one podium.
 Still, Mr. Silver urged the group to work together to elect a Democrat to the White House. ''We can do it if we stick together,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eliot Spitzer, left, the New York State attorney general, with John F. Welch Jr., the former General Electric chairman, at the convention hall. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); COUNTIES (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); JACK WELCH (50%) Michael Slackman; Michael Cooper; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Boston (Mass); New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



588 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Assails Bush as Democrats Open Convention

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 26 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton opened the Democratic National Convention on Monday with a systematic challenge to President Bush's leadership, using humor and a piercing attack to argue that Mr. Bush had unraveled a prosperous and well-respected nation that Mr. Clinton left him four years ago.
 For nearly 30 minutes, Mr. Clinton held command over an arena packed with Democratic delegates, prompting laughter, cheers and finally roars of approval with a speech that attacked the wisdom of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, how he had managed the war in Iraq, and his attempt to portray John Kerry as a weak leader who would not protect the nation against terrorism. He said Mr. Bush's policies had lost him respect abroad, and produced an economy imperiled by tax cuts that had forced ruinous cuts in spending on education, health care and spending on police.
 ''We tried it their way for 12 years, we tried it our way for eight, and then we tried it their way for four more,'' Mr. Clinton said, a grin breaking out across his face. ''By the only test that matters -- whether people were better off when we were finished than when we started -- our way worked better.'' 
 Drawing one of his biggest ovations of the night, Mr. Clinton mocked what he said was Mr. Bush's attempt to say that ''we should be afraid of John Kerry and John Edwards because they won't stand up to the terror.''
 ''Don't you believe it.'' he said. ''Strength and wisdom are not opposing values.''
 Mr. Clinton's prime-time speech instantly dominated a convention that featured two ex-presidents and an almost-president. And for all of Mr. Kerry's expressed desires that the convention downplay attacks on Mr. Bush, delegates by the end of the night had in the three speeches heard a full-throated case against Mr. Bush's policies -- though one often leavened by unthreatening language and expressions of respect for a sitting president. 
 Al Gore, who archly said he had hoped to be here to accept his party's nomination for a second term, urged Democrats to remember his defeat of 2000, but focus their anger ''on putting John Kerry and John Edwards in the White House.''
 Former President Jimmy Carter, invoking his foreign policy triumph of 25 years ago, harshly attacked President Bush as he declared the ''achievements of Camp David a quarter-century ago and the more recent progress made by President Bill Clinton are now in peril'' because of policies of Mr. Bush that allowed the Middle East to be ''swept by anti-American passions.'' 
 Taken together, the speeches spanned more than a quarter-century of Democratic Party history, and offered Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore and Mr. Carter an opportunity to contrast their records with President Bush. The prominence of their positions -- on the opening night of the convention -- signaled the extent to which Mr. Kerry, unlike the men who appeared here on Monday, intends to embrace the records of past Democratic presidents.
 All three Democrats appeared to take care not to offer what might be seen as personal attacks on Mr. Bush -- no jokes, for example, about this President Bush being born with a silver spoon in his mouth. And Mr. Clinton, in particular, used self-deprecating humor in making the case against Mr. Bush, as when he referred to his own efforts to avoid service in Vietnam as he compared Mr. Kerry's war service with Mr. Bush's time in the National Guard.
 ''During the Vietnam War, many young men, including the current president, the vice president and me, could have gone to Vietnam and didn't,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''John Kerry came from a privileged background. He could have avoided going, too. But instead he said, 'Send me.''' 
 ''When they sent those Swift boats up the river in Vietnam, and they told them their job was to draw hostile fire, to wave the American flag and bait the enemy to come out and fight, John Kerry said, 'Send me,''' he continued. By this point, the crowd had picked up the refrain and was shouting ''Send me'' along with Mr. Clinton.
 Mr. Clinton's appearance on Monday did not include the dramatics of his speech to the Democratic convention in 2000, when he strode on stage after a long theatrical walk through the tunnels of the Staples Center in Los Angeles. It was also less problematic; Mr. Gore had until the last moment been unsure whether he wanted Mr. Clinton there, and that speech started 25 minutes late, went long and was criticized by even some Democrats as showy.
 But an unusually disciplined Mr. Clinton, notwithstanding that he worked on his address until the very last minute, spoke for less than 30 minutes , finishing precisely at 11:01, just one minute past the schedule. 
 Again and again, Mr. Clinton said that he had no doubt that Mr. Bush genuinely believed in what he was trying to do, before proceeding to describe Mr. Bush's policies as bad for the nation. 
 To dramatize his attack on Mr. Bush's economic policies, Mr. Clinton talked about how he, as a wealthy ex-president, was benefiting from tax cuts that, Mr. Clinton argued, had produced ruinous cuts in spending on education, health care and crime prevention.
 Mr. Clinton was introduced by his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, after an emotional tribute by the convention to the Sept. 11 attacks, an issue that Democrats had complained Republicans had used inappropriately for political purposes. Mrs. Clinton, in her speech, which drew almost as hardy a reception as her husband, talked about her own visit to ground zero on the day after the attack as senator from New York.
 ''I visited ground zero the day after we were attacked, and I felt like I was standing at the gates of hell,'' she said.
 At the same time, Mrs. Clinton was unstinting in her praise of Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, presumably aware that many Democrats have suggested that Mrs. Clinton's own potential ambitions of running for president might make her less than anxious for a Democratic victory this year.
 Mr. Gore framed his own speech against Mr. Bush in terms of the disputed election of 2000.
 ''I sincerely ask those watching at home tonight who supported President Bush four years ago: did you really get what you expected from the candidate you voted for?'' Mr. Gore said, in a speech that mixed easy humor with poignant anger about his defeat.
 ''Is our country more united today? Or more divided?'' he said in a speech that lasted a scant 13 minutes. ''Has the promise of compassionate conservatism been fulfilled? Or do those words now ring hollow? For that matter, are the economic policies really conservative at all? 
 ''For example, did you expect the largest deficits in history?''
 To roaring applause, he said: ''To those of you who felt disappointed or angry with the outcome in 2000, I want you to remember all of those feelings. But then I want you to do with them what I have done: focus them fully and completely on putting John Kerry and John Edwards in the White House.''
 And Mr. Carter said: ''Recent policies have cost our nation its reputation as the world's most admired champion of freedom and justice. The United States has alienated its allies, dismayed its friends, and inadvertently gratified its enemies by proclaiming a confused and disturbing strategy of 'pre-emptive' war.''
 The speeches came in a seven-hour opening session of the 44th Democratic National Convention here in Boston, a long procession of short speeches broken up by intermissions during which delegates danced to rock and old disco blaring from speakers around a sleek, high-tech stage of television screens, mock mahogany and mock marble. 
 For all the concentration of Democrats on the opening of the convention, the presidential campaign itself was chugging along in states and television stations far away from this city that Mr. Kerry calls home, a reminder of the diminishing importance of these nominating events. 
 Mr. Kerry, after a brief trip here on Sunday night to watch the Red Sox beat the New York Yankees, went back to Florida to continue his slow-moving swing across the nation that his aides said was intended to draw as much attention as anything that happens here. Vice President Dick Cheney, breaking from a tradition under which one party steps aside during the other party's nominating convention, campaigned through Washington State. Mr. Bush's campaign announced, in the midst of the convention, that the president would take a bus trip through Ohio next Saturday.
 And Mr. Kerry was spending heavily on television advertisements that served to, in effect, reinforce the message that was being presented here, taking advantage of a fund-raising success that allowed him to do something that most of his recent opponents could not.
 Mr. Carter offered a particularly harsh attack on Mr. Bush, notwithstanding what Democrats had said was their intention to minimize the attacks on the president here. He invoked questions about Mr. Bush's service in the National Guard during the Vietnam War.
 Mr. Carter, a former Naval officer, noted that he had served under two presidents, Truman and Eisenhower, ''both of whom faced their active military responsibilities with honor.''
 ''We had confidence that our leaders, military and civilian, would not put our soldiers and sailors in harm's way by initiating 'wars of choice' unless America's vital interests were endangered,'' he said. ''We also were sure that these presidents would not mislead us when it came to issues involving our nation's security. Today, our Democratic Party is led by another former naval officer -- one who volunteered for military service. He showed up when assigned to duty, and he served with honor and distinction.''
 The speakers chosen by Mr. Kerry's campaign to open his nominating convention were, in part, the obligatory tribute of a party to its history and leaders.
 And -- with Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore in particular -- it was designed, on this first night, to stir up enthusiasm among the most partisan Democrats, in the unlikely event that they needed any stirring. 
 ''I'm going to be candid with you -- I had hoped to be back here this week under different circumstances, running for re-election,'' Mr. Gore said. ''But you know the old saying: You win some, you lose some. And then there's that little-known third category.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Clinton mixed humor and criticism in his speech last night at the Democratic convention. (Photo by Chang Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Internet bloggers were hard at work covering the Democratic National Convention at the FleetCenter in Boston, the first they have been invited to attend. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)(pg. P3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); IRAQ WAR (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2000; United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Election Issues; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); AL GORE (58%) Adam Nagourney; Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; Jimmy Carter; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Edwards; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



589 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Union Leader Wants Focus on Economics

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 26 

 BODY:
Andrew L. Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, which is spending $65 million to help elect Senator John Kerry, criticized the Democratic Party on Monday, saying it lacked a clear and coherent economic message. 
 He also faulted Mr. 
Kerry for failing to convey a strong message on how he would help workers.
 In an interview, Mr. Stern said that his union, which is spending far more on this campaign than any other union, would fight hard to elect Mr. Kerry but that it would continue fighting after the campaign to pressure the Democrats and Mr. Kerry to strengthen policies toward workers.
 ''John Kerry's positions are fine, but they don't go far enough to deal with the issues that are facing people who go to work every day,'' said Mr. Stern, who is known for strategic thinking.
 He said the party did not have a strong economics message because it was torn between its wealthy donors and the organizations that provide its foot soldiers, namely unions.
 ''The Democrats have to decide where they stand on economic issues,'' he said. ''The unity tends to focus more on other issues like choice, education and civil rights. We have avoided a discussion in the Democratic Party on economics.
 ''This party can't decide on economic issues whether it's pro-union or antiunion, pro-health care for all or anti. So what happens is whoever becomes the candidate, that's what the party's policy is on economics.''
 Mr. Stern, said Mr. Kerry's election might make it harder for the Democrats to discuss economics. ''We support Kerry completely,'' he said. ''This country would be in terrible shape if he loses.'





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) United States Economy; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (91%) Service Employees International Union

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%) Steven Greenhouse; Andrew L Stern; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



590 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: S.&P. Hits Lowest Point in '04 as Profit Forecasts Fall

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a 2004 low, as disappointing earnings projections reinforced concern about a profit slowdown later this year.
 The S.&P. 500 lost 2.13 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,084.07. An index of health care shares accounted for half of the slide. The index, which has shed 2.5 percent this year, is at the lowest since Dec. 17. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 0.30 of a point to 9,961.92 as gains in Verizon Communications and SBC Communications limited the loss. The Nasdaq composite index decreased 10.07 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1839.02.
 The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks companies with a median market value of about $500 million, lost 5.74, or 1.1 percent, to 533.49, the lowest close since Dec. 10.
 Health- and pharmaceutical-related companies paced the decline. ImClone Systems lost $9.62 to close at $56.42 after Yaron Werber, an analyst at Smith Barney, said the company might have to pay royalty payments to patent holders equal to 6.5 percent of sales of its Erbitux colon-cancer medicine. Mr. Werber, who had earlier estimated such fees would amount to 1.5 percent of revenue, cut his rating on the stock to ''hold'' from ''buy.''
 Pfizer shed 56 cents, to $31.74. The Food and Drug Administration approved Merck & Company's Vytorin, a cholesterol treatment that will compete with Pfizer's Lipitor. A analyst at Freidman, Billings, Ramsey & Company, David Moskowitz, cut his rating on Pfizer to ''market perform'' from ''outperform,'' citing the increased competition.
 Merck slipped 16 cents, to $45. Schering-Plough, which developed the drug with Merck, added 81 cents, to $19.56.
 Mylan Laboratories dropped after it agreed to buy King Pharmaceuticals for $4 billion in stock. Mylan, the No.2 American maker of generic drugs, fell $3, to $15.51. King investors will receive 0.9 Mylan share for each share, valuing King at $16.66 a share, 61 percent more than Friday's closing price. 
 King jumped $2.52, to $12.89. The 23 percent rally was the biggest in the S.&P. 500. 
 Omnicare, the largest provider of drugs to nursing homes, fell $8.87, to $29.33, after saying it will earn $2.35 to $2.45 a share this year because of lower reimbursements and price competition. 
 The Andrew Corporation, a maker of equipment for wireless telephone networks, fell $3.38, to $11.39. The 23 percent slide was the steepest in the S.&P. 500. The company expects fourth-quarter earnings, excluding certain items, of as much as 13 cents a share.
 Tyson, the world's largest meat processor, lost $1.47, to $18.48. Earnings this quarter will fall from a year ago as bans on American chicken and beef hurt exports, Tyson said.
 Check Point Software Technologies also dropped after lower-than-expected forecasts. Check Point, a maker of Internet security software, dropped $2.25, to $18.49. The company forecast third-quarter earnings of 24 cents to 26 cents a share on sales of $124 million to $131 million. 
 More than two stocks declined for every one that advanced on the New York Stock Exchange. It was the fourth consecutive day that more shares fell than rose, the longest stretch since May 10. Some 1.41 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 2.7 percent less than the daily average this year.
 Treasury notes fell after existing-home sales unexpectedly rose in June and speculation increased that future reports will add to evidence of economic growth this month. Late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year-note fell 15/32 to 102 1/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.49 percent, from 4.43 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.640	99.123	High Rate	1.425	1.735	Investment Rate	1.449	1.774	Low Rate	1.400	1.700	Median Rate	1.410	1.730	Total applied for	$43,698,677	$43,143,028	Accepted	$25,038,547	$22,198,478	Noncompetitive	$1,424,496	$1,161,537	

Both issues are dated July 29, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 28, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 27, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since April. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (75%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); GENERIC DRUGS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); ROYALTIES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (69%); CANCER DRUGS (68%); COLORECTAL CANCER (66%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); APPROVALS (64%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PATENTS (52%); US FDA APPROVALS (52%); CHOLESTEROL (51%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Russell 2000 Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (85%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); AT&T INC (84%); ANDREW WIRELESS SOLUTIONS (80%); ANDREW CORP (61%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFEB (BRU) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); T (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (80%); NAICS331491 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (61%); SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004



591 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Solid Profit Reports Lead To Rebound in S.&P. 500
Stocks climbed, helping the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rebound from a 2004 low, after companies reported better-than-expected profit.
 The S.&P. 500 added 10.76 points, or 1 percent, to 1,094.83, and the Dow Jones industrial average advanced 123.22 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,085.14. Both benchmarks had their biggest gains since June 7. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 30.08 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,869.10. [Page C6.]

Symbol to Buy Radio Tag Company
Symbol Technologies, the nation's leading producer of bar-code systems, said it would pay $230 million to acquire Matrics, a developer of electronic identification tags and wireless devices that read them. Analysts said that the deal should sharply accelerate Symbol's push into the promising field of radio-frequency identification, or RFID, but that Matrics and many other RFID pioneers still faced significant hurdles to becoming profitable. The stock fell in heaving trading as the company said the deal would cut into earnings for at least the next two years. [C4.]

Study Focuses on Honda Loan Unit
A study found that black customers are almost twice as likely as whites to be charged a marked-up rate by Honda dealers when they finance a purchase through American Honda Finance, a loan subsidiary. [C6.]

Verizon Posts Strong Performance
Offering further proof that the regional Bells are faring well, Verizon said its net profit hit $1.8 billion, or 64 cents a share, in the second quarter, with strong performance from its broadband division and its wireless phone group. Market Place. [C4.]

PeopleSoft posted a weaker quarterly profit, citing dampened demand for software products, which it attributed to a hostile takeover bid by Oracle. [C4.]

BP said that its second-quarter profit increased 35 percent, helped by record oil and gasoline prices. [C2.]

Modest Drop in New-Home Sales
Sales of new homes declined less than expected in June, and one indicator of consumer confidence rose in July to a two-year high. [C2.]

Report Assesses Genetic Crop Risk
Genetically engineered crops do not pose health risks that cannot also arise from crops created by other techniques, including conventional breeding, the National Academy of Sciences said in a report. [A13.]

9/11 Report Tops Best-Seller Lists
The best-selling book in America is a bookseller's dream -- it pays no author royalties, has minimal advertising or promotion costs and, in some places, there are not enough copies to satisfy demand. In short, it is a potential fountain of profits for its publisher and book stores. ''The 9/11 Commission Report,'' the final report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, has remained at the top of the online best-seller lists since its release on Thursday. [C4.]

Board Shift at Stewart's Company
Jeffrey W. Ubben has stepped down as the chairman of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, and has been replaced by a current board member, Thomas C. Siekman. [C2.]

Breaking the 30-Second Barrier
More companies are trying 90-minute television commercials. Advertising. [C4.]

Transformation in Westchester
A former Altria headquarters is getting a luxury makeover. Commercial Real Estate. [C5.]


CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Business Digest column yesterday about alternatives to the 30-second commercial misstated the length of one option. It is a 90-second commercial, not a 90-minute one. 

GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,085.14 up 123.22Nasdaq composite -- 1,869.10 up 30.0810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.61% up 0.12The euro -- $1.2045 down 0.0101The dollar -- 110.99 yen up 1.14Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Durable Goods Orders from December 2003 to May 2004.Durable Goods OrdersJune figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Symbol shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (88%); BESTSELLERS (85%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (69%); BROADBAND (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); ROYALTIES (67%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); WRITERS (63%); BOOKSTORES (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); AMERICAN HONDA FINANCE CORP (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS532112 PASSENGER CAR LEASING (54%); SIC7515 PASSENGER CAR LEASING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



592 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: New Boomtowns Change Path of China's Growth

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: DONGGUAN, China 

 BODY:
The cranes peek out from behind skyscrapers in every direction, wheeling and nodding in a slow-motion ballet as crews work around the clock to fill in an already crowded skyline. 
 Newly planted palms line the sides of broad, newly traced avenues where the traffic lights have not been turned on yet. 
 Dongguan has exploded from a mere town to a city of seven million in a little over 20 years. But the city officials are not content with a 23 percent annual economic growth rate. They are putting the finishing touches on a vast, entirely new annex city that they hope will draw 300,000 engineers and researchers, the vanguard of a new China. 
 ''We are the first in China to pursue this kind of vision,'' said Wang Jianya, deputy director of the development, called Songshan Lake Pioneer Park. ''We're not trying to be the biggest, only the best.''
 Dongguan is one of a score of Chinese megacities whose extraordinary growth reflects China's boom and its challenge. The country's rapid urbanization is helping to lift hundreds of millions of rural Chinese out of poverty. But at the same time, these new second-tier cities are locked in a ferocious competition, spawning ambitious development plans that escape the control of the central government in Beijing. 
 Economists like Tang Wing-shing, a specialist in urban development at Baptist University in Hong Kong, worry about the consequences: waste of resources, loss of arable land, fiscal crises, corruption and pollution. 
 ''Every city wants to develop into a world city, and every one wants to have an international airport, six-lane highways and export zones, rather than integrated growth,'' Professor Tang said. ''This is what we are observing in China today. All of the cities have been turned into vast construction zones, and the government has not contemplated the consequences of this yet.''
 China has 166 cities with populations over one million, compared with nine in the United States. China's urban population is growing at 2.5 percent a year, among the fastest rate in the world, according to the United Nations Population Division. That compares with 0.8 percent in India, another large, fast-developing nation.
 In fact, Beijing has found its powers to slow runaway growth to be surprisingly limited, in part because provinces and cities resist efforts to rein in their investments. 
 Although the central government allots money to pet development projects, provinces raise money for their own projects by selling rights to develop real estate. In many cases, local officials are judged in part by economic measures -- how many jobs they create, how many big buildings spring up. 
 That means that many provincial officials are trying the same formula: manufacturing and export zones, research parks and self-styled Silicon Valleys like Pioneer Park in Dongguan. 
 Dongguan's officials, in fact, have even bigger plans. 
 ''In the future our goal is 10 million people,'' Dongguan's deputy mayor, Zhang Shenguang, said almost nonchalantly. ''Beyond that, we may have problems with electricity and water.''
 But the model Dongguan is pursuing has not always worked. Yehua Dennis Wei of the University of Wisconsin cited the case of Wenzhou, a southeastern city of 1.4 million. Like many second-tier cities, Wenzhou is straining to beat the competition by creating research and development and manufacturing zones. 
 Because Wenzhou is not that close to the major concentrations of business in China's booming Yangtze Delta, businesses are leaving for bigger cities like Shanghai. Scrambling to woo more business, local governments like Wenzhou keep giving away more land and building even bigger industrial parks. 
 The unchecked development means there is little ability to consider China's needs as a whole, or to prevent duplication and waste. 
 Some cities, though, are trying a different approach to growth. One landlocked city that seems to be thriving, Wuhan, which sits astride the broad Yangtze River 400 miles west of Shanghai, has struck on a formula of its own. 
 To be sure, Wuhan, a city of 4.5 million official residents and millions of migrants, has its own research and manufacturing parks, one of which is a sprawling place called Laser Valley, which contains fiber-optic, electronics and pharmaceutical companies arrayed one after another on a huge grid. 
 But the main thrust of Wuhan's strategy has been to rely on an old-line industry, automobile manufacturing, whose history here predates China's economic liberalization. By selling off assets to foreign and domestic investors and encouraging foreign automakers like Nissan, Honda and Citroen to enter into joint ventures with Chinese companies, Wuhan is positioning itself for re-emergence as the Detroit of China. 
 The city has even managed to sell its central location as a boon for efficient distribution at a time when domestic car sales here are booming. 
 Wuhan is hardly more of a household name overseas than Dongguan, but its recent growth has outpaced Dongguan's. In an interview, the city's mayor, Li Xiansheng, proudly reeled off the latest statistics: 13.8 percent growth for the first half of the year, along with 26 percent tax revenue growth and 50 percent fixed capital growth during the same period. 
 ''In the past, I regret to say, we were left behind by a lot of eastern cities, but Wuhan is determined to play its role,'' Mr. Li said. ''If you draw a circle of 2,000 kilometers in diameter with Wuhan at its center, 80 percent of Chinese cities will be fall inside it. We are blessed to be the economic hub of central China.'' The radius he mentioned is a little more than 1,200 miles.
 Wuhan is dotted with technical colleges and trade schools, rather than the proliferation of research parks and new universities seen in so many other cities, winning it praise from manufacturers.
 ''Wuhan has a long history of auto production, and there are excellent human resources here for that reason,'' said Liu Yuhe, deputy general manager of the Dongfeng Honda Autowork, a Chinese partner with several foreign car makers. 
 There is another reason for Wuhan's success: its higher education is among the best in China's provinces. The schools have faculties of auto production and auto engineering, resources unmatched anywhere else in the nation. 
 Which approach to economic growth will prove more successful in the long run -- export-dominated technology zones or the more deliberate rise up the ladder of industrial development -- is an open question.
 For all its cachet, Dongguan has dozens of competitors trying variations of the same thing, and many of those experiments seem destined to end unhappily. Wuhan, on the other hand, has found a niche but could conceivably see its star fade like those of America's steel towns. 
 ''Overplanning a city will kill it, but so will trying to make it a steel town, a car town or an electronics town,'' said Richard Florida, an expert in urban development at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''What you have to do is allow people to use their own energies and allow markets to create the new city in their own hurly-burly way, and that's usually a messy, unpredictable process.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on July 28 about the growth of large cities in China misspelled the given name of the deputy director of a residential development in Dongguan, a city that has been growing at an annual rate of 23 percent. He is Wang Jianyang, not Jianya. The article also misspelled the given name of Dongguan's deputy mayor. He is Zhang Shunguang, not Shenguang.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A street cleaner at work near a building under construction in Dongguan, which has grown from a small town to a city of seven million. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Dongguan, in southern China, is one of a score of cities whose extraordinary growth reflects China's boom and its challenge. Above, a couple exercised on a seesaw in a recreation area on Dongchengzhi Road. Below, the city's thriving downtown, which features new skyscrapers and a major shopping center. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A8)Chart/Map: ''China's Urban Boom''Although primarily a rural country, China's rate of urbanization is among the highest in the world
46 cities reached one million population after 1992.Maps of the United States and Asia track cities whose population reached one million after 1992 and 2002 city population in millions.2002 percent urban: 38Cities of one million or more: 1022002 percent urban: 80Cities of one million or more: 9(Sources by China's National Bureau of Statistics
U.S. Census Bureau
 United Nations)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); URBANIZATION (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2004



593 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Of Consumers Lifts Outlook On Economy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of new homes declined less than expected in June, and one indicator of consumer confidence rose in July to a two-year high, according to reports released yesterday.
 Single-family home sales sold at an annual pace of 1.326 million last month, a 0.8 percent decline from a record in May, the Commerce Department said. Economists had expected new-home sales to fall to a 1.272-million pace. 
 John Ryding, chief United States economist at Bear, Stearns in New York, said, ''U.S. households are displaying tremendous confidence in future economic conditions by their willingness to enter into the housing market.'' 
 Demand for housing remains strong even as interest rates start to rise, with the combined sales of new and existing homes setting a third consecutive record in June.
 The median selling price of new homes increased 1.7 percent, to $209,900, in June from a month earlier, the Commerce Department said.
 ''Rising home prices are another reason why consumers feel so confident,'' said Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States fixed-income economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.
 Separately, the consumer confidence index of the Conference Board increased this month to 106.1 over all from a revised 102.8 in June. The business research group, based in New York, surveys 5,000 households about general economic conditions, employment prospects and spending plans.
 The Conference Board index component that tracks consumer expectations for the next six months jumped to 105.8, the highest since December, from 100.8 in June. The component assessing confidence in the ''present situation'' rose to 106.5, the highest since May 2002, from 105.9.
 An increase in hiring this year may be starting to register with consumers, as the percentage of people in a Conference Board survey saying that jobs are plentiful rose to 19.8, the highest since 20.1 in June 2002. The percentage that expects fewer jobs six months from now fell to 13.1, the lowest in almost four years.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Graph tracks Index measuring attitudes toward the economy since February 2003.July: 106.1June: 102.8May: 93.1(Source by The Conference Board)Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted, from January 2003 to June 2004.June: -0.8%May: +11.7April: -5.7(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%) United States Economy; Housing; Sales; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Conference Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



594 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Lower New Jersey's Bond Ratings

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 27 

 BODY:
With warnings about the state's habitual borrowing and expanding budget, two of the major credit-rating agencies lowered their ratings of New Jersey bonds on Tuesday.
 The decisions by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service and Fitch Ratings cited the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision Monday to permit the state to borrow $1.9 billion to balance Gov. James E. McGreevey's $28 billion budget. 
 The state has borrowed heavily in the three years since Mr. McGreevey took office in a recession, although it is only in the current fiscal year that the budget relies on bonds to pay for operating expenses. 
 While the Supreme Court allowed the bond plan to avoid disrupting the new budget, which took effect July 1, it ruled out further borrowing to finance operating expenses, a decision applauded by most of the fiscal conservatives who had challenged the budget plan.
 Still, the ratings agencies said this year's budget reflected a continuing failure of fiscal discipline. Moreover, they said the budget would be even harder to balance next year, when the state cannot resort to borrowing. The borrowing this year accounts for about 7 percent of the budget.
 Both Fitch and Standard & Poor's lowered their ratings on the state's general obligation bonds from AA to AA-, and their rating on state appropriation-backed debt from AA- to A+. A third agency, Moody's Investor Service, has placed New Jersey on its ''watch list'' for a possible lower rating. 
 The state treasurer, John E. McCormac, said he expected the lower ratings to have ''minimal impact,'' given the state's record in the credit markets and its strong economy. He also said the lower rating ''still keeps us average'' among the states. 
 The Republican leaders who had challenged Mr. McGreevey's budget in court renewed their complaints on Tuesday. Leonard Lance, the Senate Republican leader, repeated his call for cuts in the current fiscal year. ''Even without the $2 billion in borrowing, Governor McGreevey has more than $26 billion of taxpayer funds at his disposal to operate state government efficiently,'' Mr. Lance said.
 The planned bond issues account for about half of the 16 percent growth in the budget this year. Next year, the state will have to find revenue to replace the borrowed funds. 
 Mr. McGreevey's first two budgets relied on other one-time fixes, like the sale of future proceeds expected from the national tobacco settlement, to compensate for declining tax revenue. 
 Tax revenue has more than recovered in the last year, however, and the governor has raised rates on both corporate income and on personal income over $500,000 a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%) Government Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (58%) Standard & Poor's Corp; Fitch Ratings

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (57%) Laura Mansnerus; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



595 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Challenged: Are the Poor Really Helped?

BYLINE: By Celia Dugger

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Wealthy nations and international organizations, including the World Bank, spend more than $55 billion annually to better the lot of the world's 2.7 billion poor people. Yet they have scant evidence that the myriad projects they finance have made any real difference, many economists say.
 That important fact has left some critics of the World Bank, the largest financier of antipoverty programs in developing countries, dissatisfied, and they have begun throwing down an essential challenge. It is not enough, they say, just to measure how many miles of roads are built, schools constructed or microcredit loans provided. You must also measure whether those investments actually help poor people live longer, more prosperous lives. 
 It is a common-sense approach that is harder than it sounds, just like the question it seeks to answer: Does aid really work? 
 A small band of development economists, who a year ago founded the Poverty Action Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have become influential advocates for randomized evaluations as the best way to answer that question. Such trials, generally regarded as the gold standard in social policy research, involve randomly assigning people eligible for an antipoverty program to get the help or not, then comparing outcomes to see whether those who got the help fared better than those who did not. 
 It is the same approach that has helped drug companies figure out what medicines are effective and Americans decide how best to reform welfare. Advocates for rigorous evaluations hope to make aid more effective, not by directing money to particular countries, but by spending it on programs proven to work. 
 The Poverty Action Lab scholars have made startling discoveries in their own randomized evaluations. 
 Adding an extra teacher to classrooms in rural India did not improve children's test scores. But hiring high-school graduates who were paid only $10 to $15 a month to give remedial tutoring to groups of lagging students in a Bombay slum markedly improved reading and math skills.
 A series of education experiments in Kenya found that providing poor students with free uniforms or a simple porridge breakfast substantially increased attendance. But giving them drugs to treat the intestinal worms that infect more than a quarter of the world's population was more cost effective, with a price tag of only $3.50 for each extra year of schooling achieved. Healthier children are more likely to go to school. ''You can't answer the general question: Does aid work?'' said Esther Duflo, an economist and co-founder of the Poverty Action Lab.''You have to go project by project and accumulate the evidence.''
 The World Bank, a lumbering giant that employs more than 1,200 Ph.D.'s, is beginning to listen to critics like her. This summer, it is organizing large-scale impact evaluations, including randomized trials, of programs to upgrade slums, improve the performance of schools and keep children healthy and in class. The programs will be tested in dozens of countries.
 Francois Bourguignon, the bank's chief economist, said he hoped this new effort would help the bank, other donors and developing countries ''learn what does and does not work.''
 Rigorous impact evaluations should become part of the bank's culture, he said.
 That will require deep change. A recent in-house review of bank projects during the past four to five years found that only 2 percent had been properly evaluated for whether they made a difference, according to Mr. Bourguignon. 
 When Lant Pritchett, an economist who has spent a dozen years at the bank, pondered why there was so little good evidence on the impact of projects it financed, a tune from an old game show spoof that his Mom used to sing popped into his head: ''It pays to be ignorant, to be dumb, to be dense...''
 Bank economists have recently produced assessments of huge development initiatives that acknowledge weaknesses in the evidence.
 A critical review of the bank's $7 billion portfolio of programs that involve local communities in their design and management concluded recently that ''there are, unfortunately, a dearth of well-designed evaluations of such projects.''
 Another review of a $1.3 billion initiative in India found similar problems. Bank economists in New Delhi examined more than 200 studies of projects in India that ranged from teacher training to school construction, enrollment drives to textbook revision. 
 They concluded that none of the studies were rigorous enough to measure whether the initiatives made a difference, except for one that found it increased enrollment by a disappointing 1.3 percent. ''The World Bank spent more than a billion dollars without knowing why they were doing what they were doing -- that's the tragedy,'' said Abhijit Banerjee, an M.I.T. economics professor and co-founder of the Poverty Action Lab.
 But even as aid agencies lagged in conducting stringent evaluations, Professors Banerjee and Duflo at M.I.T., Michael Kremer at Harvard and other economists associated with the lab have been conducting randomized trials of antipoverty programs in India, Kenya, South Africa, Peru and the Philippines.
 Even they acknowledge that random evaluations are not a panacea. For example, a program that works in Asia may not work in Africa. Still, they say, the trials offer the best evidence. 
 ''This rigorous testing has made a huge difference in medicine and has improved human welfare due to better drugs,'' said Professor Kremer. ''If we could use randomized evaluations to really find out what works, foreign aid donors could implement better health and education policies and so could developing countries.''
 Mr. Pritchett, a veteran bank economist, tried to explain why rigorous evaluations were such a rarity in the culture of the bank. Its highly trained, well-meaning professionals too often think they know the solutions. ''They have too little doubt,'' he said.
 They also worry that modest, proven gains for the poor will lose out to inflated, unproven claims for, say, tax cuts to the rich or a new weapons system -- a concern he shares. ''You want to know what works and what doesn't, but until you subject the full range of government spending to the same discipline, why are you disadvantaging things for poor people?'' he asked.
 But Professor Banerjee is optimistic that reliable evaluations will give advocates ammunition to lobby for increased foreign aid. 
 He pointed to the success of a rigorously studied Mexican program that paid poor mothers a small sum if they kept their children in school and got them immunized. The model has spread across Latin America in large measure because a large randomized trial, published in 2001, showed that the children who participated were healthier and stayed in school longer.
 ''In the development business,'' he said, ''it would be really good to get away from the need to have people promising miracles.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Primary school pupils in Kenya are given a deworming drug. The random testing of such programs is being advocated.
 The pupils register for the program. Healthy children are more likely to go to school. (Photographs by Francesco Broli for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TRENDS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MICROFINANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid ; Research; Medicine and Health; Children and Youth; Education and Schools; Economic Conditions and Trends; Uniforms; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Celia Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%) KENYA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Kenya; Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



596 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Software Services Firm Is Latest In India to Plan Initial Offering

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, July 27 

 BODY:
With the economy growing in the United States and an increased momentum in software and back office services outsourcing to India, the initial public offering of the country's premier software services firm, Tata Consultancy Services, is expected to be in great demand.
 Experts said the offering, the largest ever of a privately owned company and set for July 29 to Aug. 5, would help the pioneering software services company come into its own and better compete with more market-savvy rivals like Infosys Technologies and Wipro.
 ''The I.P.O. will likely change the behavior of Tata Consultancy Services,'' said Dean Davison, vice president for service management strategies at the META Group, an information technology consultancy in Stamford, Conn. ''They have been somewhat quiet in marketing, but being public will make investor opinion count.'' 
 The offering, of 55.4 million shares, or about 13.33 percent of the equity, is expected to bring in $935 million to $1.25 billion.
 Recent initial offerings in India, including a clump of offerings of government-owned companies in the spring, were gobbled up by investors. In fact, every offering, including the more recent one of India's largest biotechnology company, Biocon, was oversubscribed. The stock market has been subdued since then, after surprising federal election results and questions over the new government's commitment to economic reforms. Still, the stock prices of most of the offerings are much higher than their offering prices.
 As a sign of the interest in Tata Consultancy Services, the road show to promote the offering in Mumbai last week drew around 700 brokers and analysts, twice the number the company had expected.
 The company, known as TCS, is based in Mumbai and is a unit of the large industrial conglomerate the Tata Group. 
 It was founded in 1968, and started at the very bottom of the outsourcing value chain: documents were flown into Mumbai, then known as Bombay, from other parts of India. Data was punched into cards, and the work was turned around in seven days.
 In the mid-1970's, when TCS sought a license to import a mainframe computer from the Burroughs Corporation, the Indian government refused to grant the request, saying the company would use up valuable foreign exchange. To earn dollars, TCS began offering outsourcing services to foreign companies. When the government license was finally granted, the computer model had become obsolete and an updated model was imported.
 One of TCS's first United States customers was the Detroit Police Department, for which it archived the crime database.
 The company moved from data entry to writing code and offering low-end applications maintenance services for overseas customers. Now it has more than 30,000 employees and nearly 600 clients, including six of the largest global corporations. Its biggest customer, the General Electric Company and its subsidiaries, accounts for 17 percent of its total revenues.
 In the year that ended in March 2003, TCS became the first Indian software company to cross the milestone of $1 billion in revenues. Its closest competitor, Infosys, caught up with this milestone a year later. 
 TCS's annual revenues climbed 27 percent this fiscal year, to $1.5 billion, with more than 62 percent of that from clients based in the United States. Profits, meanwhile, jumped 47 percent.
 The Tata Group has been criticized for not taking TCS public during the technology boom in the 1990's. Some critics even likened the company to an uncut diamond.
 Company executives stoutly defend the timing.
 ''Making an offering in a overheated market goes against the Tata principle of being fair to our shareholders,'' said Phiroz A. Vandrevala, executive vice president of TCS. ''With the economy looking up and the industry guidance upbeat, the offering seems well-timed.''
 With a profit-making machine like TCS, information technology has increasingly become a key focus area for the Tata Group, a conglomerate with interests in steel, hospitality, energy, telecommunications, automobile and commodities like tea, coffee and even cooking salt. 
 Tata said it would use the cash from the TCS offering to retire debts and expand other businesses, including telecommunications.
 Each of the 55.4 million shares on offer will be priced in a band of 775 rupees to 900 rupees ($16.78 to $19.48). The final price will be decided through the book-building method, a method common in the United States but not in India. An additional 8.3 million shares may be offered if there is enough demand, the company said. Even at its floor price, TCS will become one of India's most valuable companies, with a market capitalization of nearly $10 billion.
 At the lower end of the price band, the price-to-earnings ratio of TCS is about 21, compared with 23 for Infosys and 25 for Wipro.
 One thing that sets TCS apart from those and other Indian rivals is the fact that it earns a fair amount of its revenues, 13 percent, from the domestic market. 
 In fact, the country's financial backbone rides on TCS software. India's central Reserve Bank of India and its largest mutual fund, the Unit Trust of India, as well as the National Stock Exchange are all powered by it.
 In the coming years, TCS and its top Indian rivals expect to comfortably maintain their 30 percent annual growth levels. 
 ''The turbulence around the practice of outsourcing is abating, the model is gaining a strong following and the industry is poised for growth,'' said Vivek Paul, vice chairman of Wipro, which recently announced a spectacular quarterly performance.
 When asked for a comment on the offering by TCS, Mr. Paul joked: ''Which company? What do they do?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''With the economy looking up and the industry guidance upbeat, the offering seems well-timed,'' Phiroz A. Vandrevala, executive vice president of Tata Consultancy Services, said. (Photo by Gautam Singh/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (65%); IMPORT CONTROLS (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (52%); POLICE FORCES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software

COMPANY: TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (90%); INFOSYS LTD (84%); UNISYS CORP (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); BIOCON LTD (58%); TATA GROUP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Tata Group; Tata Group

TICKER: TCS (NSE) (90%); INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%); USY (LSE) (63%); UIS (SWX) (63%); UIS (NYSE) (63%); GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%); BIOCON (NSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (90%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (90%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

PERSON: Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) India

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



597 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Farm Subsidies Again Take Front Seat at the W.T.O.

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: GENEVA, July 27 

 BODY:
Global trade talks began here Tuesday with officials hoping to break logjams and to satisfy the increasingly vocal complaints of developing nations that rich countries have yet to pledge a substantial enough cut in their $300 billion annual agricultural subsidies and supports.
 But neither the haves nor the have-nots were acting as single blocs, with members of both factions seeking out splinter groups focused on particular issues. At the headquarters of the World Trade Organization, the countries gathered in a general session and later broke into discrete special-interest groups that tried to devise strategies that offer enough concessions to reach a compromise, while also appeasing groups at home.
 Outside, in splendid summer weather, protesters from Oxfam International, the nonprofit advocacy group, stuck four dummies dressed in pin-striped suits upside down in sand and complained that the wealthy regions -- Canada, Europe, Japan and the United States in particular -- were turning their backs on the world's poorest farmers. 
 Some African countries demanded over the weekend that the United States agrees to eventually eliminate its cotton subsidies, revisiting an issue that helped destroy talks last year in Cancun, Mexico. 
 At the same time, a small group of 10 of the world's wealthiest countries, including Switzerland and Norway, were trying to block attempts to rein in their protections of special agricultural products in their countries, like rice for Japan.
 The European Union also came under criticism -- even as it won praise for offering to cut all of its nearly $3 billion in export subsidies -- for trying to protect too much of its agricultural market as special products. Delegates wondered whether complaints from France would eventually undercut the European offer.
 Yet all the factions said they understood that if no compromise is reached this week, the Doha round of trade talks to help the developing world could well be ruined, which seemed to make some more determined to reach a pact. After raising serious objections to farm subsidies of developed countries at a news conference, India's minister of commerce, Kamal Nath, nonetheless said: ''I'm looking at the next three days with optimism. It is possible to make improvements.'' 
 At least 25 trade ministers were expected to arrive at the general meeting, including those from Brazil, the European Union and the United States -- three regions that are emerging as the critical power brokers. 
 Manasse Nshuti, the minister of commerce of Rwanda who is a representative of the African Union here, said that he had been exchanging e-mail messages with Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, on the newest request to end cotton subsidies.
 ''We are waiting for the United States to respond,'' Mr. Nshuti said in an interview. ''For us this is a very important point. It is critical.''
 Mr. Nshuti said failure of the talks was not an option. ''For Africa, we are losers already,'' he said. ''If there is a failure here, it is a failure for the whole world, not just Africa.''
 Analysts said that some of the tough new demands from many countries were predictable devices to win greater concessions. Supachai Panitchpakdi, the director general of the trade organization, was acting as a mediator on Tuesday, trying to bridge differences among the 147 countries in a series of closed meetings. The W.T.O. spokesman, Keith Rockwell, said at a media briefing that the organization hoped to have a new draft compromise ready for discussions on Wednesday, leading him to predict that the session will go past its original Thursday deadline.
 ''If we put a text forward tomorrow, it leaves a little more than 48 hours to review, assess and accept it,'' Mr. Rockwell said. ''This meeting will go on to Friday. I'd bet on it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Geneva, Oxfam used dummies to protest inattention to the needs of poor countries by wealthy farm regions. (Photo by Nicholas Ratzenboeck/Associated Press)(pg. W1)
 Supachai Panitchpakdi, the director general of the W.T.O., mediated closed meetings on Tuesday. (Pool photo by Laurent Gillieron)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COTTON FARMING (72%); INTERVIEWS (66%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Third World and Developing Countries; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Protectionism (Trade); Demonstrations and Riots; Demonstrations and Riots; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) World Trade Organization; Oxfam

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) Supachai Panitchpakdi (Dir Gen); Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); JAPAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORWAY (79%); RWANDA (79%); FRANCE (79%) Geneva (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



598 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Ways To Fight Terror 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Reflecting on the 9/11 commission report, Richard A. Clarke concludes that America must ''expose the Islamic world to values that are more attractive than those of the jihadists'' (''Honorable Commission, Toothless Report,'' Op-Ed, July 25).
 He proposes that we become even more deeply involved in the security, politics and economics of Muslim countries.
 But how are we to understand jihadism at all except as a reaction to the increasing ubiquity of American power, culture and ideals?
 Mr. Clarke has described the problem and called it a solution.

Josh Pollack
Silver Spring, Md., July 26, 2004

The writer is a defense and national security consultant.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (88%); WRITERS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terrorism; Islam

PERSON: Josh Pollack; Richard A Clarke

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



599 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Official Who Shunned Pay Didn't Deserve It, State Says

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 27 

 BODY:
Last week, the departing president of the state economic development authority said he was not interested in collecting $170,000 he had accrued in compensatory time. On Tuesday, state officials decided he could not have it even if he wanted it.
 In response to a legal opinion requested by the state comptroller, the Connecticut attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, said that the president of the Connecticut Development Authority, Arthur H. Diedrick, was not legally entitled to the money.
 L. Scott Frantz, the chairman of the authority's board, which approved Mr. Diedrick's salary and benefits package in 1999, said the board would not have approved the payment if Mr. Diedrick decided to claim it when he leaves the job on Sunday. 
 ''When we approved the comp time, we thought it would amount to a few thousand bucks,'' Mr. Frantz said. ''I don't think Arthur or any of us realized it would be this much.''
 Mr. Diedrick, 67, a publisher from Morris, in Litchfield County, was appointed chairman of the authority in 1995 by Gov. John G. Rowland. He works there 28 hours a week and is paid $102,000 a year. On Sunday, he is also expected to resign as chairman of two other quasi-public agencies, jobs for which he is not paid. 
 It was Mr. Diedrick who arranged for Mr. Rowland to buy the summer cottage in Litchfield that ignited a scandal for the former governor. Under Mr. Diedrick's tenure at the authority, Robert V. Matthews, a wealthy developer and friend of Mr. Rowland's, received almost $5 million in state loans and loan guarantees.
 Mr. Diedrick held the dual role of chairman and president of the authority until February 2003, when he gave up the chairmanship to Mr. Frantz. Mr. Blumenthal is investigating whether it was legal for Mr. Diedrick to have held both positions.
 In a telephone interview on Tuesday, Mr. Diedrick said that a legal opinion obtained by the authority in 1995 declared that it was proper to hold both titles. 
 Mr. Diedrick also said of the compensatory time, ''Before the comptroller ever said anything, I said I was not going to take the money or I was going to give it to charity.'' 
 The authority convened an emergency meeting on Tuesday at the request of the state treasurer, Denise L. Nappier, an ex officio board member. The authority formally acknowledged that Mr. Diedrick had waived any claim to the compensatory payment, said Howard Rifkin, the deputy state treasurer.
 Mr. Rifkin said he represented Ms. Nappier at a June 1999 meeting when the board approved the authority's budget, including Mr. Diedrick's salary package for the ensuing fiscal year.
 ''But the issue of comp time, as I recall, was not discussed,'' he said.
 According to a state employee manual, compensatory time is not awarded to appointed or elected officials, said the state's director of labor relations, Linda Yelmini. For state employees eligible to receive comp time, it must be used within a year of its accrual. In rare cases, such as when an employee leaves before the deadline, the state will pay out accrued time, according to state human resources personnel.
 Mr. Blumenthal found the agency ''has no legal authority to pay Mr. Diedrick's claimed accumulated compensation.''
 ''Moreover,'' he wrote, ''the decision to grant any high-level public official compensatory time would be highly unusual and contrary to generally accepted policy in public employment.'' 
 The issue of compensation for Mr. Diedrick, one of a handful of top administrators whom Gov. M. Jodi Rell asked to resign, was first raised last week when the retirement benefits division of the state comptroller's office was preparing for its customary exit meeting on July 23 with Mr. Diedrick. Included in a file forwarded from the authority to the comptroller were letters detailing the 2,002 hours Mr. Diedrick had accrued in almost nine years at the agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); SCANDALS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%) Wages and Salaries; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (79%) Stacey Stowe; Richard (Atty Gen) Blumenthal; Arthur Diedrick; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004



600 of 667 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: For Bloomberg, Glimpses of a Devastated Haiti

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, July 27 

 BODY:
At 8:38 a.m. on Tuesday, the wealthiest mayor in the United States touched down in one of the poorest nations in the Americas and proceeded to take a whirlwind tour through misery, illness and political unrest. 
 Over the course of roughly six hours, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg saw decades-old metal cribs where babies rested, still from dehydration, in this city's largest public hospital. He walked through the notorious slum where supporters of the recently ousted president simmer with rage, a neighborhood kept in check by Brazilian police forces armed with submachine guns who stand through the streets and on rooftops. He met with local dignitaries and donated a used ambulance to the deeply needy public hospital, equipped with more lifesaving devices than are available at that center's emergency room. 
 Mayor Bloomberg had planned to visit Haiti in January to celebrate the island's bicentennial, but that trip was scotched because of the political unrest that ended in the ousting of the former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in February after a three-week uprising. Mr. Bloomberg said at the time that he would reschedule the trip, and on Tuesday he arrived on his private plane with Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott; the Rev. Dr. Philius H. Nicholas, a pastor of a Haitian church in Flatbush, Brooklyn; Joseph F. Bruno, the head of the city's Office of Emergency Management; and other aides. 
 In the face of significant security risks, the mayor spent more than 20 minutes in the slum and seemed somewhat shaken by the poverty he witnessed. He asked numerous questions about the conditions and stopped at one point to count out dollars, possibly to buy some of the woven items. 
 ''I had read and I had been told of the problems that many people in Haiti have,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during a news conference at the end of his visit. ''But no matter how much you prepare yourself, you can't understand their pain and suffering until you see it yourself in their face.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, who is not fond of traveling overnight, left New York at 6 a.m. and was greeted in Port-au-Prince by two vice mayors of the city as well as James B. Foley, the United States ambassador to Haiti. Mr. Bloomberg's motorcade swept through Cite Soleil, a nearby slum where a United States marine was recently shot in gang violence. 
 As Mr. Bloomberg chatted with officials from the project about topsoil, flooding and political instability, a small crowd began to gather around his motorcade. Children covered in dust, many of them without shoes, stared at the sneakers of the gaggle of reporters, mayoral aides and United States representatives. A rock cracked the window of one car in the motorcade. Women walked by with baskets of vegetables and other foods perched on their heads. Chickens sauntered through the garbage-strewn streets, more dirt pathways than anything else. A mud-crusted pig wandered about, dazed, between makeshift homes crafted from tin. A cinderblock church was identical to a cinderblock morgue. 
 From there, Mr. Bloomberg visited a center for women who do embroidery work and leave their children in the attached day care center. Small children lay on mattresses while their mothers sat next to old Singer sewing machines preparing aprons or in a little sewing circle on folding chairs in the next room.
 After that, he placed a wreath at Champs de Mars, where a statue of one of the founding fathers of Haiti sits in the center of town. While photographers snapped away, Haitian students, workers, women selling shelled nuts and soccer fans wandered around the plaza below, taking in some of the action with muted curiosity. Many seem to have relatives in New York. Few knew who the mayor was. Some were impressed with the visit. 
 Haiti's misery seems to deepen each year. At least 6 percent of the population has AIDS and 80 percent lived in what the United States government characterizes as abject poverty. The average life expectancy is roughly 52 years and the entire country's gross domestic product is only three times Mr. Bloomberg's personal wealth. (He has $4 billion. The G.D.P. is $12 billion.) 
 The interim government, led by Prime Minister Gerard Latortue, is struggling to stabilize some of the more volatile regions of the country and upgrade basic services to avoid mass unrest. 
 Perhaps the most striking symbol of the nation's poverty is the central hospital here, where visitors are immediately hit with flies and the smell of human waste. Babies lay in old cribs, adults in metal beds. Equipment, manpower and medicine are in short supply. A soundlessness pervades -- there are no beeping machines, no televisions, and nurses stand quietly over their charges. There is little to do for many of the patients, who are simply ill from hunger or dehydration. 
 A visibly moved Mr. Bloomberg made his way to each bed as his aides distributed New York Police Department hats to many patients. One baby lay still with a Bible perched open next to his arm. 
 ''It is good that he is here,'' said Mona Rigaud, a doctor at New York University Medical Center who works with Haitian Physicians Abroad, a group of Haitian doctors who live outside the country and come for one- or two-week rotations at the center. ''I think this puts us on the map and tells people what is going on here.'' 
 It was there that Mr. Bloomberg donated a 1996 New York City ambulance that once belonged to Metropolitan Hospital Center in East Harlem. The mayor also said that New York City would also lend technical assistance, perhaps through its health and environmental offices.
 After the hospital, he headed to the Palais National, where he exchanged a baby-blue Tiffany box with President Boniface Alexander, who in turn gave the mayor a photograph book. Mr. Bloomberg then met for lunch with Prime Minister Latortue and other officials at small round tables covered with Champagne-colored damask tablecloths. 
 The wheels of Mr. Bloomberg's New York-bound plane lifted above Port-au-Prince at 2:30 p.m.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg, making good on a vow to reschedule a trip in February, went to Haiti yesterday. He stopped at a school in Cite Soleil. (Photo by Associated Press/Ariana Cubillos)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TRENDS (73%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Haiti; Port-Au-Prince (Haiti); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

 
