

401 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
More Signs of Strength In the Economic Data

 BODY:
Productivity of the nation's workers rose at a robust 2.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, suggesting that companies have room to give raises without raising prices and increasing the scope for further interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. But producer prices skipped up more sharply than expected in October, in part because of energy prices, which after months of softness are rising again. Retail sales for October also rose more than economists had expected, suggesting less need for further economic stimulation. . . . Japan's economy, on the other hand, continues to languish, prompting Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi to issue a new stimulus plan for the country that might cost up to $165 billion. . . . The International Monetary Fund and more than a dozen nations announced a $41.5 billion package of loans to Brazil to help it stabilize its economy and currency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTIVITY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TRENDS (88%); PRODUCER PRICES (88%); RETAILERS (86%); INTEREST RATES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RETAIL SALES (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); 

PERSON: KEIZO OBUCHI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



402 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Congressman Fears Famine Is Decimating North Koreans

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 14

 BODY:
A Congressman who visited remote parts of North Korea this week said today that the food and health situation there was desperate and deteriorating, and that millions of North Koreans might have starved to death in the last few years.
The Congressman, Tony P. Hall, a Democrat from Ohio who has had a longtime interest in world hunger, passed through Tokyo on his return to the United States and showed photographs he had taken of North Korean children with patchy hair, protruding bones, open sores and other signs of severe malnutrition. Mr. Hall also brought back a bag of what officials called "substitute food" being distributed by a Government food station: dried leaves and straw, so coarse that even cattle would normally turn away. 
 "They grind it into powder and make it into noodles," Mr. Hall said. The noodles have no nutrition and are indigestible, leaving people holding their aching stomachs, he said.
North Korea has admitted that it is facing serious economic difficulties, but there have been sharply diverging assessments of how serious these are. Some visitors with the United Nations and other organizations have said that the food situation seems to be a bit better now than a year or two ago.
Mr. Hall said that the divergence might have arisen because in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, life did seem to be slightly better than during his three previous trips to North Korea. But in rural areas where foreigners are not often allowed to visit, he added, the overall situation is worse than ever.
Based on visits to four hospitals, Mr. Hall also emphasized that public health care had declined sharply. In one hospital, assistants were holding down a patient while surgeons conducted a stomach operation without electric lights or anesthesia.
Ordinary North Koreans are suffering, in part, because their Government's hard-line policies have alienated would-be donors and aid agencies. The United Nations has repeatedly appealed for relief aid for North Korea, but the latest appeal has raised less than one-third of the target.
In September, Doctors Without Borders announced that it was pulling its staff of 13 from North Korea because it feared that its aid was going to the politically connected rather than to the most needy.
North Korea does not release mortality figures or health statistics, but Mr. Hall said that the United Nations had gathered and would soon release data indicating that 30 percent of North Korean children under age 2 are acutely malnourished and that 67 percent of all children are physically stunted. Mr. Hall said he thought that overall at least one million people had died and that the total was probably closer to three million.
In an indication of the seriousness with which professional demographers view the situation, the United States Bureau of the Census recently published estimates suggesting that North Korea's population peaked in 1995 at 21.55 million and has since fallen to 21.23 million this year. That would be a decline of 320,000 over three years, a period when North Korea's population would have been expected to grow by about 925,000 people, based on the population growth rate of the early 1990's.
Nicholas Eberstadt, an American specialist on North Korean population figures, says that there simply is not enough hard information for him to estimate the death toll from the famine. But he notes one political tidbit: North Korea's Constitution stipulates that there should be one delegate to the country's "people's assembly" for every 30,000 citizens. This year's assembly did not expand as previous ones did, but rather had just 687 delegates, the same as the previous assembly held in 1990.
While Mr. Eberstadt counsels caution, that could mean that North Korea's population, after eight years in which it had been expected to add several million people, is now back to 20.6 million people or fewer.
The United States has been supplying grain to North Korea, but strains are growing over a secret underground complex in the North that some experts worry may be the heart of a new nuclear weapons program. The United States warned this week that the "agreed framework" that is the basis for its relations with North Korea will be in jeopardy unless the North lets American experts visit the underground complex and resolve their doubts.
North Korea has said that it will show off the complex only if Washington promises that if the complex is not a nuclear one, it will pay for "vilifying us and impairing our prestige." Washington refuses to pay, and North Korea is warning that the standoff could lead the agreement to fall apart.
"Their shameless and wicked demand is an open infringement upon our sovereignty and wanton interference in our internal affairs," declared North Korea's leading newspaper, Rodong Sinmun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (88%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: FAMINE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STARVATION (90%); FAMINE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); MALNUTRITION (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); TRENDS (68%); STATISTICS (64%); CENSUS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HALL, TONY (REPR) TONY P HALL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



403 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Limiting a State's Sphere of Influence

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
To some, it may smack of flower-power idealism that in recent years two dozen American cities have passed sanctions against foreign countries, roaring like local mice against the ruling regime of Nigeria or political repression in Tibet.
But to a Federal district judge here, a state-level move by Massachusetts to tilt at human rights abuses in Myanmar, formerly Burma, seemed not sweetly quixotic but downright unconstitutional. 
 The judge, Joseph L. Tauro, ruled late last week that the Massachusetts Burma Law, which largely bars the state government from doing business with companies that trade with Myanmar, infringed on the Federal Government's exclusive control of American foreign policy. He is expected to issue an order telling Massachusetts exactly what to do about the law next week.
"State interests, no matter how noble, do not trump the Federal Government's exclusive foreign affairs power," Judge Tauro wrote.
That decision, and the announcement this week that Massachusetts would appeal, set the stage for a legal battle that experts say could ultimately reach the United States Supreme Court and affect all such local sanctions -- from New York City's recent moves to shun Swiss banks unless they made restitution to Holocaust survivors, to Los Angeles's current consideration of whether to pass a Burma law of its own.
At stake, advocates of such down-home involvement in foreign affairs say, is the kind of groundswell for divestment and sanctions that many believe helped end the South African system of racial separation. If such a ruling had come out a decade ago, said State Representative Byron Rushing, who sponsored the Massachusetts law, "Nelson Mandela might still be in prison today."
Furthermore, Thomas A. Barnico, the Assistant Attorney General handling the case for Massachusetts, said: "Our law is consistent with U.S. policy and second, our law isn't the conduct of foreign relations, it's the conduct of our own purchasing. We have a right to decide with whom we'll do business."
But opponents argue that local sanctions not only violate the Constitution, but also fail to influence the countries they target. They say the sanctions' main effects are to hurt the ability of American businesses to compete abroad and to complicate the State Department's job.
"None of our companies, and certainly nor we, in any way apologize for the way the Government of Burma operates," said Frank Kittredge, president of the National Foreign Trade Council, the lobbying group that successfully challenged the Massachusetts law. "Nobody argues with the purpose or objective. We just argue with the means of accomplishing it, and we feel so strongly that these international sanctions do not work."
In this global-market era, the opponents to local sanctions also include foreign governments, which complain that the sanctions violate international free-trade pacts signed by the United States. The European Union filed a brief opposing the Massachusetts law in Federal court, and the European Union and Japan have brought a complaint about it to the World Trade Organization.
The law that touched off all this local-state-Federal-international fuss was passed by the State Legislature in 1996, making Massachusetts the only state with such an anti-Burma sanction. (A similar measure is pending in the New York State Legislature, however, and New York City already has one.)
Called a selective purchasing law, it required the state government to refrain from buying from companies that did business with Myanmar, unless bids from those companies were at least 10 percent cheaper than the closest comparable bids.
The prospect of losing business with the state appears to have influenced some companies to pull out of Myanmar, Representative Rushing said -- at least, he added, Apple Computer said as much when it left. But Mr. Rushing said he did not know of any case in which the state had actually rejected a bid from a vendor with ties to Myanmar.
The military regime in Myanmar has violently repressed dissent, and human rights monitors accuse it of practicing torture, perpetuating slavery and trafficking in drugs.
While divestment was the main local sanction applied against South Africa in the anti-apartheid movement, selective purchasing laws and ordinances now predominate in the movement to pressure Myanmar.
According to a list maintained by the National Foreign Trade Council, cities from Berkeley, Calif., to Boulder, Colo., to Takoma Park, Md., and Cambridge, Mass. -- more than 20 in all -- have passed such selective purchasing measures against Myanmar.
That is their right, argued Robert Stumberg, a professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center who advises the Free Burma Coalition, an umbrella group modeled after the anti-apartheid movement.
"It's a core principle of democracy that the Federal Government should not intrude on state powers to spend local tax dollars unless there's an overwhelming Federal interest at stake," Mr. Stumberg said. "Neither the text of the Constitution nor the politics of the situation reaches that level, and we think the Supreme Court will agree with us."
Mr. Stumberg and other defenders of the Massachusetts law say they also have an important legal precedent to lean on: a decision by Maryland's highest court in 1989 that the City of Baltimore had the right to pass a statute that withdrew its investments from South Africa.
But Judge Tauro, in his decision, wrote that the Baltimore case did not apply because the city was seeking only to modify its own investment practices. Baltimore did not "seek to influence individuals or companies in their private commercial activities," he said. He also cited a 1937 Supreme Court decision saying that power over international affairs "cannot be subject to any curtailment or interference on the part of the several states."
In the end, Judge Tauro wrote: "Massachusetts' concern for the welfare of the people of Myanmar, as manifested by this legislative enactment, may well be regarded as admirable. But, under the exclusive foreign affairs doctrine, the proper forum to raise such concerns is the United States Congress."
In fact, Congress and President Clinton have spoken on Myanmar. Mr. Clinton issued an executive order in 1997 barring new American investment in Myanmar, and Congress has backed similar sanctions.
But that seems only to give more ammunition to both sides. Opponents of the Massachusetts law say it is pre-empted by Congress; supporters say that since Congress did not nullify the law, it should stand.
On one thing, both sides agree. No such concerted challenge ever arose to the local pushes for divestment from South Africa, as college after college and city after city voted to divest. That could be because the Myanmar cause has less popular support, some say. Or it could be because the Government has signed more free-trade agreements since then, obligating states and cities to keep their barriers down as well.

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Setting Foreign Policy, Locally" shows areas that have barred their local governments from doing business with companies that trade with countries like Myanmar and Nigeria, which have policies the local governments deplore. (Sources: USA Engage; the Organization for International Investment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (93%); TIBET (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE CO (51%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (82%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (82%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MASSACHUSETTS; MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NIGERIA (93%); TIBET (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; CONSTITUTIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VERDICTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); JUDGES (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LOBBYING (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); DIVESTITURES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; TAURO, JOSEPH L (JUDGE)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



404 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: The World: Boxed In;
Guns to Butter: Six Fraught Ways To Contain Iraq

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
IT was not supposed to turn out this way. Tough sanctions linked to aggressive arms inspections were intended to keep Saddam Hussein boxed in, not to drive the United States into a corner.
But time and again Washington has had to turn to military action or the threat of war to beat down a challenge from the Iraqi leader, whose intention is to possess an armory of the world's most lethal weapons. When the confrontation ends, Iraq goes back into the box, agreeing as did conditionally yesterday. Each time the box gets flimsier. 
 For more than a year, it has been evident to governments in every region of the world that the Clinton Administration's policy of sanctions forever has run its course. President Hussein won power by terror and depleted Iraq's resources in war and ostentation even before he unwisely strayed into Kuwait in 1990, and if he ever intended to cooperate with arms inspections, he very clearly decided within the last year that he had played the game long enough.
For months, foreign and domestic critics of the American policy on Iraq have urged the Administration to show some creativity or flexibility -- or even naked muscle -- to steer away from a dead end. At one extreme are those who think the time is overdue to remove the President of Iraq by marching on Baghdad. At the other are those like France, Russia, some large developing countries and most Arab nations who say they no longer see a direct military threat. They essentially urge United States to let Mr. Hussein sell oil while policing Iraq from afar, but they are also willing to stand back and let America bomb. In between, other ideas lie in wait.
The Administration has found one option particularly appealing: sporadic bombing aimed at knocking out specific sites or generally intimidating Mr. Hussein, but not removing him from power. The problem would be Mr. Hussein's survival, which would guarantee continued trouble and, if many ordinary Iraqis were killed, a loss of support around the world.
 
A Formidable Arsenal
A full-scale attack on Iraq and, perhaps, an occupation of Baghdad is a course the Bush Administration ruled out in 1991 and the Clinton Administration is not likely to choose. It has a growing number of supporters on the conservative side of politics in the United States, but virtually no backers abroad.
Iraq was greatly weakened by the Persian Gulf war, but Mr. Hussein still has the power to force every Iraqi adult into military service and he has been allowed to keep a formidable defensive arsenal.
Joshua Muravchik, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, said that even leaving aside the material and political costs of assembling a huge army and persuading the public to accept casualties, American leaders have apparently concluded that there is little point in ousting Mr. Hussein; the rationale is that responsible, democratic government doesn't seem to work in the region. But Mr. Muravchik, the author of "Exporting Democracy," argues that's no excuse.
"The lessons learned in the 1930's about aggressors led us to get rid of them," he said. "We occupied Germany and Japan to insure that there would be more benign governments. That clearly was what would have been necessary in Iraq, but we didn't have the courage to do it." Now, he said, it is up to dissidents to overthrow him.
Arab diplomats respond that an American occupation of Iraq -- in the heart of a region that still harbors resentment of the British occupation after the fall of the Ottoman Empire following World War I -- would be a calamity. The Iraqis under Saddam Hussein are especially sensitive on this issue, but they are not alone.
"It would be preposterous," said Clovis Maksoud, a former United Nations representative of the Arab League who now directs American University's Center for the Global South in Washington.
The Arab world has two major popular causes: the completion of the Mideast peace agreement and the end of suffering for the people of Iraq. A military occupation would inflame a region where the United States has little power of persuasion and little presence. From Pakistan almost to the Mediterranean, the United States has either no functioning American embassies -- the case in Afghanistan, Iran and Iraq -- or uneasy relations, as in Syria and Lebanon.
The dearth of American leverage in the gulf has prompted some officials, including Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, to rethink the "dual containment" of Iraq and Iran and make overtures to the Iranians under a more open President, Mohammed Khatami. But sharp political differences within Iran between Mr. Khatami's supporters and the ultra-conservative religious leadership make any hope of using Iran as a counterweight to Iraq problematic at best. While the American overture to Iran was taking shape, Mr. Hussein was getting bolder, not more hesitant.
 
Hoping for Insurrection
There are those who would turn over the job of deposing President Hussein to his most opportunistic enemies. Congress has authorized $97 million for military help to opposition groups like the Iraqi National Congress and two Kurdish resistance organizations. It is hard to find an expert on the region who thinks this course has any hope of succeeding.
Similar judgments are made about hopes that Mr. Hussein's army, or elements of it, will turn against him. A diplomat in Baghdad said in an interview early this year that the Iraqi President has layers upon intersecting layers of intelligence operations and more cells of informers than anyone can count. A hint of trouble can wipe out not only the plotter but his whole family.
The same fear attends the professional middle class and virtually all Government employees, who have also taken the hardest hit from sanctions, and are increasingly bitter about what they see as an American policy indifferent to their fate. Suggestions from outside the Administration that sanctions be redrawn or at least tinkered with to free the middle class from restrictions on travel and a range of foreign contacts have apparently been ignored. American officials say they cannot trust the Iraqi leadership not to use such openings for its own purposes.
An American expert with years of experience in the region said that perhaps only the manipulation of tribal differences in the Iraqi heartland, where Mr. Hussein and his Tikriti clan are quietly loathed, would have a hope of bringing down the regime from within. But the United States appears to have no handle on these internal divisions. And other scholars of the region, as well as many Iraqi exiles, worry about who would take Saddam Hussein's place. His sons, Uday and Qusay, described by many Iraqis as even more corrupt and ruthless than him, wait in the wings.
The argument over what to do about sanctions raises several questions. Should sanctions -- above all the embargo on Iraqi oil sales -- be withdrawn, leaving Mr. Hussein with no more propaganda mileage to be made from his suffering people? Should this be done before there is a strong, fail-safe arms-monitoring process in place to keep an eye on Mr. Hussein? Or should the arms inspection system, which Mr. Hussein has turned into his most effective pressure point against the United Nations and the United States, be abandoned while sanctions stay in place?
"No inspections -- and sanctions -- is much worse than full inspections and diminished sanctions," said David Albright of the independent Institute for Science and International Security in Washington. His views are widely shared by experts wary of those who believe that standard intelligence methods would be as effective as inspectors who, as President Clinton says, have destroyed more Iraqi arms that the gulf war did.
But what if the world just abandoned both sanctions and inspections? There are those who believe that Iraq is no longer an immediate military threat and that the penalties being paid by the Iraqi people are too high to justify for much longer.
The Clinton Administration will never let this happen, officials say. And within the United Nations, diplomats from many regions fear the precedent it would set. "You don't bargain with the Security Council," a Scandinavian diplomat said last week, a day before the Nordic countries joined in warning President Hussein to get back in line. The sanctions-with-inspections program created for Iraq was once seen as a useful model for dealing with tyrants in a world no longer eager to mount peacekeeping missions. Many diplomats do not want to see it tossed out because of Iraq.
 
Fraying Sanctions
All of this leaves still one more alternative, and it may well be the one that becomes reality. This option assumes that the United States manages to keep sanctions in place indefinitely, but with dwindling support from other nations. The sanctions are already eroding. Hardly a week goes by when the press in India, an old ally of Iraq, doesn't trumpet a new agreement with Baghdad. Indians are selling Iraqis food and computers, and high-level visits have resumed. Turkey is trading through the Kurdish regions of northern Iraq, recent visitors say, and illicit commerce through Iranian coastal waters is flourishing again.
Last week, a new ferry service from Dubai linked Iraq to the gulf nations by sea for the first time since 1991. When Sfouq Rashid, an Iraqi passenger, disembarked at the Iraqi port of Umm Qasr on Tuesday, he told a Reuters reporter proudly: "This service extends a ray of hope for the Iraqi people. God willing, it will break the siege on Iraq."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: An F-117A Stealth fighter. (Illustration by Greg Ryan and Steve Brown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (77%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (77%); FRANCE (71%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); ARMIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); MURAVCHIK, JOSHUA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



405 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS;
The War Over Bluefin Tuna Limits

BYLINE: By Paul Molyneaux 

 BODY:
For more than two decades, the Atlantic bluefin tuna fishery has been one of the most hotly debated fisheries in the world. As the annual meeting of the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas begins today in Santiago de Compostela, Spain, contention is rising over such issues as quota reductions and a lack of compliance with existing agreements. According to United States delegates, American fishermen are shouldering the brunt of the conservation effort, while European nations are cashing in on the Atlantic bluefin fishery.
Since the 1960's, Japan has offered United States commercial fishermen a strong market for giant bluefin. In the past, prices for high-quality tuna, which have averaged about 400 pounds when landed in United States waters, have sometimes topped $63 a pound. Single fish, which can weigh more than 1,000 pounds, are reported to have fetched $30,000 on the dock and been resold for $80,000 in Japan, where 90 percent of the world's bluefin catch is consumed. With many fisheries in decline, the influx of cash from bluefin sales has helped keep many economies -- personal and national -- healthy over the last decade. 
 Percy Stevens fishes commercially for giant bluefin tuna in the harpoon category, one of five management categories established by the National Marine Fisheries Service for the allocation of the United States quota. He runs his 35-foot Heidi Marie out of Ogunquit, Me. Rigged with a mast for the spotter and a long platform off the bow, the "pulpit" for the harpooner, Stevens's boat is typical of those in the harpoon fleet.
Stevens has been fishing for tuna all his life. "I went with my father when I was a kid, then in 1979 I went with a fellow named Timmy Tower," he said. "He put me onto a big one and I threw -- my first fish -- and I got him. I was hooked."
Like Stevens, Jimmy Donofrio, executive director of the New Jersey-based Recreational Fishermen's Alliance, is passionate about this fishery. "The fishery for small bluefin in the mid-Atlantic states goes back to the days of sail," Donofrio said. "Around the turn of the century, they used to troll for bluefin with catboats and land between 15,000 and 20,000 tons in a season.
"We're not looking for that kind of quota today, but people have a longstanding right to fish for recreation and subsistence," Donofrio said. "All we want is a reasonable bag limit. We consider four fish per vessel reasonable. A catch-and-release fishery is not going to satisfy us."
In a controversial decision, the National Marine Fisheries Service listed bluefin tuna as overfished and, in response to a Congressional stock-rebuilding mandate, may call for a United States reduction of up to 77 percent. The issues affecting domestic management of bluefin range far beyond United States waters. Bluefin can swim at up to 55 miles an hour and their trans-Atlantic crossings have been well documented.
Originally managed as one stock, since 1981 Atlantic bluefin tuna have been considered by the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas, known as I.C.C.A.T., as two separate stocks: one in the East, with its spawning grounds in the Mediterranean Sea, and one in the West, thought to spawn exclusively in the Gulf of Mexico. For management purposes the two stocks are divided by an arbitrary line drawn down the middle of the Atlantic along the 45th meridian. I.C.C.A.T. currently assumes there is only minimal (3 percent) mixing between Eastern and Western fish.
Because of this separate-management scenario, known as the Two-Stock Theory, countries in the east have been landing record catches -- more than 40,000 metric tons in four of the last five years -- while the United States, Canada and Japan share a Western quota of 2,354 metric tons. American fishermen get 1,344 metric tons, 3 percent of the total Atlantic catch.
"The Two-Stock Theory was a political decision," said Dick Stone, formerly a fisheries service scientist and now science adviser to the Recreational Fisherman's Alliance. "We couldn't get the Europeans to go along with strict conservation measures so we split the stock."
Rich Ruais, executive director of the East Coast Tuna Association, calls the Two-Stock Theory "an international joke, and a tragic joke on U.S. fishermen.
"The fish we conserve are feeding an expanding fishery in the East," he added. "While we abide by catch and size restrictions, countries like Spain, Portugal and France are estimated to be fishing well over their quotas. In the Bay of Biscay, off the west coast of France, 50 percent of the catch is undersized, much of it age 0 fish, that's less than four pounds."
Faced with the possibility of crippling quota reductions, many commercial and recreational fishermen, often at odds over domestic allocation, are joining forces and calling on science to help them challenge the validity of the Two-Stock Theory. All agree that they have done their share for conservation and that it's time for Eastern Atlantic countries to share the cost of rebuilding bluefin stocks.
To analyze movement trends of bluefin, a research project conducted by Molly Lutcavage of the New England Aquarium in Boston, with the aid of commercial fishermen and financial support from the East Coast Tuna Association, tagged 20 bluefin off Massachusetts in 1997.
"We were criticized for working with commercial fishermen," Lutcavage said. "But how could you not work with commercial fishermen? They're the experts."
Barbara Block of Stanford University, in conjunction with the recreational fishery off Cape Hatteras, N.C., undertook a similar project involving more than 200 fish. Both studies used "pop-up tags," designed to release from the tuna after a specific period of time -- up to nine months -- and transmit data, via satellite, back to the scientists.
Results from Lutcavage's work, though limited, are being used to challenge the current management system. Of 20 tags attached to spawning-age fish, 8-plus years old, 17 have been retrieved. After nine months, five fish had crossed into the eastern management area, nearly 30 percent, 10 times what I.C.C.A.T. assumed.
Block's work, although designed mostly to test the technology, shows similar movement trends. Most of her fish were tagged with long-term archival tags, but out of 37 tags released, 35 were retrieved, and two bluefin had crossed into the Eastern management area after only 90 days, the maximum time period of Block's pop-up tags.
Dave Wilmot, chairman of the Ocean Wildlife Campaign, a coalition of environmental groups including the Audubon Society, World Wildlife Fund and the Natural Resources Defense Council, is not convinced. "There is still too much uncertainty," he said. "As a scientist, I would be very reluctant to make important management decisions based on a handful of tags. It'll be another five years of research before we really begin to understand bluefin stock structure and spawning habits."
Wilmot notes that a lack of conservation action in the past has led to disastrous results in other fisheries. "If the U.S. wants to show it's serious, then we've got to take a leadership role by calling for catch reductions. Inaction by other countries is no excuse for shirking our responsibility."
John Graves, chairman of the United States I.C.C.A.T. advisory committee, has already made it clear that the pop-up tag surveys will not affect this year's bluefin stock assessment. But he has also stated unequivocally that the United States is going to be calling for stiff penalties against any country that continues to plunder this international resource.
In discussions with United States representatives, neither Japanese nor Canadian delegates have clarified their positions on possible quota reductions. However, Pat Chamut, Canada's assistant deputy minister for fisheries management, did say that "Canadian fishermen will be less likely to go along with further restrictions unless something is done to bring the East in line."
Chamut called I.C.C.A.T.'s inability to limit catches in the East "appalling and disgraceful." He said Canada would support sanctions against countries not in compliance with I.C.C.A.T. recommendations.
In the Western management area, bluefin stocks appear to be rebounding. National Marine Fisheries Service scientists acknowledge that there is a greater abundance of tuna than expected, but insist that stocks are at least 80 percent below the optimum levels called for in the 1996 Congressional mandate for sustainable fisheries.
The best United States rebuilding efforts however, will affect only a small percentage of the Atlantic-wide stock. Most parties, even many European scientists, agree that the conservation of bluefin tuna hinges in the East Atlantic and Mediterranean. Whether I.C.C.A.T. can control all its countries, and end overfishing and the targeting of undersized fish, remains to be seen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Debate about bluefin tuna quotas for the United States has made allies of commercial fisherman like Percy Stevens, above, and recreational anglers like Barbara Immergut. (Pete Barrett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (91%); SPAIN (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); GALICIA, SPAIN (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF ATLANTIC TUNAS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF ATLANTIC TUNAS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (91%); SPAIN (88%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); GALICIA, SPAIN (73%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TUNA; QUOTAS; FISHING, COMMERCIAL FISHERIES (92%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (65%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); 

PERSON: MOLYNEAUX, PAUL MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



406 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Church Turns Neighborly

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
For more than 300 years, the Parish of Trinity Church, the landmark that sits at the head of Wall Street, has been a force in the development of the city.
The first outpost of the Anglican faith in the Colonies, it once owned all the land from Fulton to Christopher Streets and from Broadway to the Hudson River. Over the centuries it has given away $3 billion, helping start more than 1,200 churches, schools, universities and hospitals. Today, the parish still owns 5.5 million square feet of commercial real estate in lower Manhattan. 
 But for all its riches and enduring influence, at the parish's core is a small Episcopal church where people often gather for communal suppers, coffee hours and altar guild meetings, where the gyrations of the nearby stock market seem remote.
Now the church faces an unfamiliar challenge, one more common to fledgling congregations: how to be the spiritual heart of its surrounding neighborhood.
For decades, there was little need to cater to local residents because, until the construction of Battery Park City and the conversion of commercial buildings into apartment houses, there were no local residents to speak of.
"Trinity was first a local church before it was a national or international institution," said the Rev. Samuel Johnson Howard, who has been the vicar of the church for nearly a year. "Now, at last, we see the possibility of having a positive impact on the spiritual life of the immediate community again."
So church leaders are seeking ways to reach out to newcomers without ignoring their current parishioners, who are a remarkably diverse group drawn from many different and sometimes distant locales.
Much of the responsibility for recruiting new members falls to Father Howard. "A lot of my time," he said, "has been occupied in trying to figure out just who is in the neighborhood and decide on ways we can reach them, serve them and meet their spiritual needs."
For now, he is trying a direct approach, especially with the residents of Battery Park City, where he lives.
Though he concedes that his success so far has been rather limited, he says he sees reason for hope. "My wife and I have made it a real point to entertain people around us," he said, "to make friends, to try to develop connections. Once you get behind their door, you develop a relationship."
That strategy tipped the balance for Scott Morrison, 35, a senior vice president at Schroders & Company, an investment bank, and his wife, Laura, 32, a managing director of the New York Stock Exchange, who live in Battery Park City and spent months visiting churches before settling on Trinity.
"The week after we got there, Father Howard invited us and three other young couples to his house for dinner," Mr. Morrison said. "It was just a social get-together, and was an unexpectedly nice way to meet new people. It's funny how a church can make a big world into a small world."
Father Howard and Pam Guyot, the church's director of market planning, are also trying a more scientific approach to attract new members. They commissioned a demographic report of the neighborhood south of Canal Street, including TriBeCa, Wall Street and Battery Park City, which was completed last week.
"We have learned some interesting thing about these folks," Father Howard said. "On the whole they are fairly young, under 40, and include an above-average number of singles. It is an affluent area and a very educated one, and the number of people who identified themselves as Episcopalians is almost 50 percent higher than it is in the general population."
"What that means is as we begin to identify the spiritual needs of people in an area like this, we need to identify touchstone issues," he continued. "I expect the big ones will include finding companionship and issues of aging parents."
But officials are adamant that the church's backbone, its current roll of 750 members, not be ignored. "The only thing that is a bigger priority is taking care of the people who are already here," Father Howard said.
One of Trinity Church's distinctive characteristics is how far people travel to reach it. The Rev. Daniel Paul Matthews, rector of the parish, said parishioners travel an average of 35 minutes each way.
"There are probably not two children in the congregation who go to the same school," Father Matthews said.
Trinity's Sunday school, which includes children from 6 to 9, has eight pupils, up from three last year. The youth ministry, which educates children from 10 to 16, has 28 students.
The geographic dispersion of their flock means that Father Howard and his two colleagues, the Rev. Linda Moeller and the Rev. Nan Peete, spend considerable time on subways.
"Pastoral visits to the sick or those in crisis are perhaps the most important part of any priest's work," Father Howard said. "In parishes I've served previously, I could visit a half a dozen parishioners in an afternoon. Here, it often takes a whole afternoon to visit just one."
Another of Trinity's hallmarks is its racial diversity. At a time when black, Korean, French, Albanian and many other groups have formed their own separate churches around the city, Trinity Church draws an extraordinary blend of worshipers.
Fifty percent of its members are black, with half of those from the Caribbean and Central America. The remaining 50 percent are a melange of Asian and white, including Hispanic.
That diversity works in the church is simply accepted, and parishioners see no need to analyze it. "Everyone is just another person here, and whatever you have to offer, they reach out and grab it," said Evelyn Moss, a member of 27 years, who was the first woman to serve as head usher.
Lorraine LaHuta, director of development for the New York Academy of Medicine, who was chairwoman of the parish's 300th anniversary celebration in 1996, drives in from Staten Island each week for services.
She feels that the population mix is a major attraction.
"We have a diversity of all God's people of all colors and backgrounds, including some who are homeless and don't always smell so wonderful," she said at a recent Sunday brunch. "I pass a dozen Episcopal churches on my way, but none can feed my spirit nor fill my soul."
In fact, her husband, Leff LaHuta, a retired teacher, said: "It was part of our marriage contract that, no matter where we live, we have to drive to Trinity. And that was even before E-Z Pass."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The congregation of Trinity Church, which is a notably diverse collection of Episcopal communicants.; Trinity Church sits in the heart of the financial district, on Broadway at the head of Wall Street.; In addition to services at Trinity, there are often communal suppers, Sunday brunches and coffee hours. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRINITY CHURCH (MANHATTAN) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY CHURCH (MANHATTAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EPISCOPAL CHURCH RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE SAM JOHNSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



407 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2922 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Stalking Africa's Struggling Economies

SERIES: DEAD ZONES: Stricken Work Force

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: LUSAKA, Zambia

 BODY:
At one time, Barclays Bank here was losing 36 of its 1,600 employees a year, 10 times the death rate at most American companies.
At the private Minbank Clinic, where the senior managers of Zambia's biggest mining houses, banks and industrial companies are treated, about half of all appointments are AIDS-related. 
 In nearby Zimbabwe, a personnel officer confesses that he has hired three people for each semiskilled job, expecting two to die in training. Half the executives at another company refuse promotions because an H.I.V. test is required.
In the mines, where one sick driller can cripple a whole crew, some South African shafts are reporting 25 percent H.I.V. infection rates, and even higher rates of tuberculosis, which blooms in weakened immune systems.
As the AIDS epidemic sweeps the continent, the underpinnings of many already shaky economies are becoming riddled with cracks. As one economist put it, the problems right now are merely insidious, "but one day you'll wake up and they'll be catastrophic."
In Africa, the disease attacks educated urban professionals -- the backbone of economic expansion -- first. The loss of those people can rob the continent of much of its potential. The damage is immeasurable, economists say, because it appears in ways that cannot be seen -- businesses that will never be founded, ideas that will never be pitched, university departments that will never be created.
In eastern and southern Africa, where the epidemic is worst, the economically strongest countries -- South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda and Zambia -- have infection rates between 10 and 25 percent. Virtually all of those infected will die within 10 years. West Africa's strongest economies, like those of Nigeria, Ghana and the Ivory Coast, have lower, but still scary, infection rates.
AIDS here, spread mostly by heterosexual encounters, hits the economically productive hardest. "It's men who may come from poor areas, but now have social mobility, can travel, can afford prostitutes," said Wayne Myslik, chief consultant for Lifeworks, a South African AIDS-management consultancy, who has studied the problem at companies all over Africa.
A well-known 1987 study in Rwanda showed that a pregnant woman had a 9 percent chance of infection if her husband was a farmer, a 22 percent chance if he was a soldier, a 32 percent chance if he was a white-collar worker and a 38 percent chance if he was a Government official.
Companies and governments may find ways to avoid bankruptcy, but the choices they make to survive will be cruel -- laying off the sick, sending others home to die. For Westerners used to a system in which insurers and governments pay for top-quality medical care, it is hard to grasp the kinds of cuts already being made here. Never mind $15,000 AIDS cocktails and costly cures for rare brain infections. Companies that once calmly paid for coffins, hearses and funeral meals for employees are now begrudging even that.
Accurately gauging the impact of the epidemic is difficult. Few companies know how many of their workers are infected. And no one admits having AIDS, so experts must guess how many of the deaths of young working people due to tuberculosis, malaria and vague complaints like "bad chest" are really AIDS-related.
But the indications are that the disease is devastating to family finances, widely variable in the damage it inflicts on individual companies and government health budgets, and -- so far, anyway -- surprisingly minor in its statistical effects on national economies. Because so many industries in Africa rely on cheap unskilled labor from the almost limitless pools of the unemployed, damage to overall economies may be relatively slight, economists said.
In one of the cruel ironies of epidemiology, the survivors may benefit economically, just as the survivors of the 14th century bubonic plague did in Europe when wages skyrocketed and farmland became free.
The damage at the family level is easy to grasp. The typical breadwinner in Africa has 10 dependents, and outside South Africa, there are no welfare systems. Poor families are devastated even by a child's death, because the cost of medicine and a funeral means they often have to eat less, sell land or cattle or take healthy children out of school. That returns a once-ambitious family directly into the hopeless cycle of poverty at its nadir -- illiterate, ill-nourished children hoeing small plots of corn to avoid starvation.
 
Health Systems
Strained Budgets Bring Rationing
 The next greatest threat is to medical budgets, both public and private.
Most African countries have annual health budgets of less than $6 per citizen. Zimbabwe, for example, allocated $3.68 per person in 1995, while the hospitalization of a privately insured AIDS patient that year cost $18,000.
Faced with bankruptcy, governments respond by rationing.
The $15,000-a-year protease inhibitor "cocktails" that prolong so many American lives are out of the question -- the World Bank estimates that one patient's dosage would keep 400 children in school for a year. Most patients get the most common malaria and TB drugs and antibiotics. When their immune systems are so weak that those stop working, they simply die.
Even relatively rich South Africa says it cannot afford to offer $80 courses of AZT routinely to pregnant and nursing mothers to prevent transmission to their children.
Workers for corporations face similar rationing, but the more generous employers buy them more months of life. Worker health insurance is rare; far more common are clinics on the grounds of the mine, factory or farm. They offer as much as the company decides it can afford.
Small companies cope by simply dismissing sick workers; rich ones cap their health benefits. Even Eskom, the South African power company known for its generous benefits, recently cut its medical benefits for H.I.V.-infected employees from $18,000 a year to $2,600.
"The employees didn't scream," said Liz Thebe, Eskom's AIDS-education administrator. Since South Africa's press is unsophisticated about AIDS, protease inhibitor "cocktails" are seldom mentioned and few people are aware of them. Only a handful of Eskom workers, most of them white, take them, Ms. Thebe said. Others, who have heard that such treatment involves 60 pills a day and harsh side effects, simply declined. Some "prefer to go to traditional healers," she said.
Insurance companies react to the disease's heavy toll by writing policies that require repeated blood tests. If a country outlaws such requirements, they stop doing business there.
In dirt-poor Malawi, Mr. Myslik said, there are only two insurers left: the state-owned National Insurance Company, which is insolvent, and Old Mutual, which insures only expatriate workers.
 
The Companies
Some Cut Costs, Others Stress Help
 The third greatest economic damage done by AIDS is to corporate profits.
Few companies will talk about AIDS in their work force and some hide the problem even from their shareholders, so analyses of losses are relatively rare.
At Indeni, Zambia's only oil refinery, AIDS costs doubled from 1991 to 1993 and surpassed the company's meager profits the next year.
A study of the Botswana Diamond Valuing Company, whose 525 highly-trained sorters pick diamonds off conveyor belts full of mine gravel, estimated that AIDS cost it $237 per employee, or 6 percent of profits, in 1994. The Botswana Meat Commission, which slaughters the country's beef, its second-biggest export after diamonds, was losing $268 per employee, or 8 percent of profits. At Muhoroni Sugar, a huge sugar plantation in Kenya, costs in 1994 were only $49 per employee, but they were expected to double while the company kept losing money. (To keep this in perspective, one must remember how low wages are in Africa. A typical Muhoroni worker earned about $1,200 a year.)
AIDS bleeds profits from companies in many ways: medical and death expenses, funeral payments, the costs of recruiting and training new employees; work hours lost because employees are off sick.
Interestingly, in companies that keep statistics, more work-hours are lost to funeral attendance than to illness. Since most Africans are buried in their rural home villages, attending a relative's funeral means asking for up to a week off.
"In my tradition, I can have three or four mothers," said Mulenga Kapwepwe, an executive at Project Concern, an AIDS-monitoring group here, explaining that Africans consider aunts, uncles and cousins to be immediate family. "Before the epidemic, things were loose -- I could go bury anyone in my extended family. Now companies are tightening up."
And there are the potentially huge costs of accidents. "I had a guy collapse at the airport the other day," said an executive who spoke on condition his company not be named. "What if he'd been driving his truck and hit a 727?"
With brutally hard-nosed management, some companies contain costs. Although 20 to 25 of the 900 employees of Chilanga Cement die each year, the effect on the bottom line is "almost negligible," said Chief Executive Patrick R. Gorman. The disease does not even rate a mention in the annual report.
The Lusaka-area company, which owns Zambia's biggest cement plant, was sold by the Government to Britain's Commonwealth Development Corporation in 1994.
Most of its deaths are among laborers, who are easily replaced, and the company is laying men off anyway, Mr. Gorman said. "To put it callously, it's achieving what we want," he said. "Natural wastage is letting us reach our manning levels."
Absenteeism for funerals had increased 15-fold between 1992 and 1995, but "we've stamped on that," he added. A worker may leave only for the funeral of a wife, parent or child without losing the day's pay.
White-collar deaths are "surprisingly low," Mr. Gorman said, though he had to hire back a marketing director because the two successors he hired have both died.
At the company's on-site clinic, costs are "down to about $15 per head per annum," he said. "We draw the line at AZT and all these high-powered expensive drugs."
For each worker who died, the company used to pay for the coffin, hearse, buses for mourners, food for the funeral meal and a cash grant to the family. "When I first got here, I tried to do away with the whole thing and ended up in a three-month firefight with the union," Mr. Gorman said. Ultimately, they settled for a grant worth about $200.
At the other end of the spectrum in Zambia is Barclays Bank, the country's biggest. Its employees are overwhelmingly white-collar and high school or college graduates. With subsidiaries across Africa, Barclays is widely admired for its AIDS plans, of which Zambia's was the first.
The bank has never calculated exactly how much the disease costs it, said Bright Nyirenda, who started the program. But its startling wake-up call came in the late 1980's when it was legal to give blood tests to job applicants: 8 of the 10 interviewed in the small city of Kabwe proved H.I.V.-positive.
Meanwhile, inside the company's ranks, "young men ready for promotion were dying," said Sylvester G. Mubengwa, Mr. Nyirenda's successor as health and safety manager.
Between 1987 and 1992, the bank's annual mortality rate rose from 0.4 percent to 2.23 percent. In America, about 0.25 percent is typical. It has since leveled off a bit lower, with 85 percent of the deaths AIDS-related.
Making matters worse, many are middle managers. The typical death is after six years of service, and the bank lost 8 supervisory or managerial rank employees last year and 11 in 1996.
Others who have been hard-hit aere the secretaries to those men. "The managers travel a lot, and so are. . . exposed to temptation," said Mr. Nyirenda, straining to speak delicately. "Back at work, they prevail over their juniors, and get favors from them. With secretaries, it can turn out quite viciously." The bank has a sexual harassment policy, he said, but workers in impoverished Zambia are desperate to keep their jobs.
Because the bank pays relatively well, it can fill its depleted ranks by raiding other companies. Small firms cannot compete for executive talent.
Barclays does not merely offer health lectures and free condoms, as some companies do. "It's bank policy to show compassion," Mr. Mubengwa said, sitting under a poster of the Barclays eagle with a red AIDS ribbon on its wing. When an employee begins to show signs of sickness -- slackening concentration, growing absenteeism -- Mr. Mubengwa tries to work out a plan that eases the work burden, oversees medical care and suggests disability retirement. Employees are prodded to prolong their lives by living in healthy ways -- quitting smoking, taking vitamins, avoiding new infections.
However, as is frequently the case here, the employees often deny they are sick, refuse H.I.V. tests and try to work until they die. In a legacy of mining-based economies, African companies typically pay two to four times annual salary to the family of a worker who dies on the job, while disability retirements are pittances.
 
The Economies
Loss So Far Slight, But Potential Fades
 Perhaps surprisingly enough, the least catastrophic damage from the epidemic is at the macroeconomic level. Most of the 610 million people in Africa south of the Sahara are subsistence farmers, herders or fishermen. Those with formal jobs are usually laborers, crop pickers or miners. Although they suffer and die, the economy marches on indifferently. There are so many desperate job-seekers that they are quickly replaced.
Mead Over, a World Bank economist, estimates that in Africa's 10 worst-hit countries, through the year 2025, the disease will reduce growth of gross domestic product per capita by only 0.3 percent. Although total G.D.P. goes down when the sick do not grow crops or produce goods, he explained, so many people die that those who are left own greater slices of the economic pie. And he is quick to point out that an 0.3 percent drop in growth is significant in countries struggling to grow even 1 percent a year.
Some economists almost apologetically compare AIDS in Africa to the 14th century's Black Death. That great scythe of bubonic plague killed nearly a third of Europe's people in three years, but from a cold-bloodedly financial point of view, the survivors did nicely. With labor scarce, wages climbed, and "a lot of people suddenly had a lot more land," Mr. Over said.
And, as Alan Whiteside, an economist at the University of Natal, noted, many African economies are shrinking, while governments are selling state enterprises and trimming public payrolls. "Being cynical about it," he said, "They think: 'if you're going to lose people anyway, do you mind how they go?' "
The impact of deaths in the civil service has yet to be calculated. Business in Africa is intertwined with government, which usually owns the telephone system and electric company. Infection rates in the civil service are high -- in South Africa, as many as one in seven are thought to be infected. In some countries, civil servants, who have job security, may legally be home sick for a year before being replaced.
That is a crisis in the making, said Mr. Whiteside. "You can't run a company without electricity," he said. "If the power company loses its technicians, you can't generate electricity."
Although most companies have been slow to respond, or are still in denial, a few prescient ones saw the problem coming.
That did not always help.
Jenny Rogers runs South Africa's best-known AIDS program for the Billiton aluminum company in the province of KwaZulu-Natal. It hands out condoms and brochures in every bathroom, gives health lectures and aggressively treats workers for venereal diseases, which increase the risk of H.I.V. infection. Mrs. Rogers even brought a whole museum exhibit on AIDS from Pretoria to Richards Bay, the little city around the smelters, and found friendly H.I.V.-infected guides to take 20,000 visitors through and talk to them about their fears of the disease.
In a way, she was lucky. AIDS came late to South Africa because anti-apartheid sanctions kept the borders closed -- though not airtight -- until 1990. She might have had time to head off the disease.
But, she said, "for years, the unions blocked it."
"There was a belief that the disease didn't exist because no one had seen it. And some feeling that it was a plot by the old Government or the United States to keep the black population down by getting people to use condoms. And there were objections that condoms aren't part of African culture. And there are traditional practices here that spread the disease -- such as when a man dies, his wives becomes his brother's property so the land isn't split up, and he is expected to sleep with them."
She slowly overcame a lot of that resistance, she said. Shop stewards now double as AIDS educators, and the company hands out so many condoms that at one point employees were taking an average of 6.2 per day each. "I think I'm supporting a lot of small entrepreneurs," she said, laughing.
Nonetheless, it may all be too late. The infection rate in surrounding KwaZulu-Natal is now 30 percent, higher even than in Zimbabwe or Botswana, Africa's worst-hit countries. Those deaths are yet to come.
 
Dead Zones
 Later articles will report on other aspects of AIDS in Africa and other continents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Chilanga Cement Factory in Zambia, 20 to 25 workers die each year from AIDS. Workers at the plant repaired a grinder. (Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mourners waited as a gravedigger at a cemetary near Lusaka, Zambia, finished his work at the funeral of a 34-year old Zambian man who died of what his father described as "fits." Many Zambian companies pay funeral expenses for their workers. A worker at the Chilanga Cement Factory in Lusaka shoveled gravel. The plant's management says its work force is being reduced by AIDS-related illnesses. (Photographs by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Charts: "STATUS REPORT: An Epidemic Ranges Across Africa's Borders"
While some African countries are wealthier than others, the spread of AIDS is blind to economic health.
 
Ivory Coast
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 10.06
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- $10.7
 
Ghana
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 2.38
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 6.3
 
Nigeria
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 4.12
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 32.0
 
Uganda
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 9.51
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 6.1
 
Kenya
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 11.64
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 9.2
 
Zambia
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 19.07
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 3.4
 
Zimbabwe
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 25.84
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 7.6
 
Botswana
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 25.10
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 4.9
 
South Africa
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGE OF ADULTS INFECTED WITH AIDS 1997 -- 12.91
GDP IN BILLIONS 1996 -- 126.3
 
(Sources: World Bank, World Development Indicators; UNAIDS)(pg. 20)
 
"CASE STUDIES: The Cost of AIDS"
How AIDS is affecting 2 African companies.
 
At Barclays Bank, Zambia, nearly 2 percent of the work force is dying each year, while at the Botswana Meat Commission, AIDS-related costs consumed 8.8 percent of profits in 1994. Graph gracks percentage of employees dying each year.
 
How AIDS-related expenses broke down
 
1.2% -- Health care -- $4,500
48.3% -- Burial and death benefits -- $178,800
 
35.0% -- Absenteeism due to HIV/AIDS -- $129,700
 
6.8% -- Absenteeism due to funeral attendance -- $25,300
 
8.7% -- Replacing workers -- $31,900
 
(Sources: Barclay's, Bank Zambia; Family Health International)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: BARC (LSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: ZAMBIA (97%); AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (94%); BOTSWANA (93%); GHANA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); UGANDA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); RWANDA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS BANK PLC (58%); JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); FAMILY HEALTH INTERNATIONAL (59%); FAMILY HEALTH INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT UNITED NATIONS PROGRAMME ON HIV/AIDS (59%); FAMILY HEALTH INTERNATIONAL (59%); FAMILY HEALTH INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; ZAMBIA (97%); AFRICA (97%); ZIMBABWE (94%); BOTSWANA (93%); GHANA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); UGANDA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); RWANDA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS AIDS & HIV (93%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (75%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



408 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Was Just Hours Away From Starting Attack Against Iraq

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON and STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
The United States had prepared to begin a huge campaign of air strikes on Iraq today, but called off the attack after a last-minute flurry of diplomatic activity brought an Iraqi announcement that it would allow United Nations weapons inspectors to resume their work, Clinton Administration officials said.
Officials said the first wave of air strikes authorized by President Clinton had been scheduled to occur Saturday evening Iraqi time, or during the day in Washington. The strikes, they said, would have involved hundreds of cruise missiles launched from ships and B-52 bombers, as well as the bombing of Iraqi targets by jet fighters stationed aboard the aircraft carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower in the Persian Gulf. 
 The Administration rejected the Iraqi letter today as "unacceptable," and officials insisted that American air strikes this weekend were still an option. But the attack today was aborted, they said, because of a last-ditch plea to Iraq issued on Friday night by the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, and Iraq's announcement hours later that it would allow United Nations weapons inspectors to resume their "normal work" in Iraq.
"It was almost as if he knew," a Pentagon official said, referring to the timing of President Saddam Hussein's move. "It was real close."
Administration officials said Mr. Clinton had been urged by senior advisers to begin the air strikes earlier this week, if only to avoid the situation that is now unfolding, with the United States left once again in the awkward position of rushing a huge force to the Persian Gulf to confront Iraq, only to have the Iraqis back down at the last minute.
But Mr. Clinton, they said, had decided to delay the attack until today so that more American warplanes and ships could be in place near Iraq.
Officials said they feared that the Administration, which had largely abandoned hope that the United Nations weapons inspections would be allowed to resume in any meaningful way, was left with the worst of all scenarios: an ineffective inspection program, President Hussein still fully in charge, and a large American military force in the Persian Gulf without a clear mission.
Although the Administration rejected the Iraqi letter, officials said Iraq's announcement that it would resume cooperation with the United Nations in the hunt for weapons of mass destruction would make it difficult for Mr. Clinton to order an attack without allowing Mr. Annan at least a little more time to try to hammer out a deal.
While he did not confirm that the attack on Iraq had been scheduled to begin today, the National Security Adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said at a White House news conference that "we were poised to take military action -- and we remain poised to take military action."
Officials insisted that American air strikes this weekend were still being actively considered by President Clinton, who abruptly canceled his plans to leave tonight to attend an economic summit of Pacific Rim leaders in Malaysia in order to deal with the crisis. "The President has decided to remain in Washington to evaluate appropriate next steps," said Joe Lockhart, the White House spokesman. Vice President Al Gore will attend instead.
The President's senior national security advisers -- including Mr. Berger, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen; Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of Central Intelligence, George J. Tenet -- met at the White House for more than five hours today to discuss how to respond to the Iraq announcement.
The decision by Administration officials to disclose details of the military's plans appeared to be an effort to convince both the American public and the Iraqi Government that Mr. Clinton had been prepared to act decisively after years of criticism that he had been too timid in confronting Iraq.
"There were many people in the Administration who wanted -- and expected -- that we would significantly weaken Saddam with a heavy, sustained bombing campaign," said an Administration official who was eager for an attack. "But once again, we've hitched our wagon with Unscom, even though Unscom doesn't work anymore."
Unscom is the United Nations Special Commission, which oversees the disarmament program imposed on Iraq after the Persian Gulf war in 1991. The current crisis began in August when the Iraqis ordered the United Nations to end most weapons inspections until crippling economic sanctions were lifted.
American officials now fear the Iraqis will once again play for time. And then, once the world's attention has turned away from Iraq and the United States has withdrawn much of its naval fleet and air armada from the region, Iraq could begin -- once again -- to interfere with the arms inspections, sparking yet another crisis requiring an American military buildup.
"It's a rerun," said an Administration official involved in Iraq policy. "What do we do now? I haven't the foggiest today. There are going to be a lot of glum faces on Monday."
The situation unfolding is similar in many ways to that played out late last year and earlier this year, when Iraq tried to expel Americans from the United Nations arms inspection teams, prompting Mr. Clinton to threaten air strikes against Iraq and to order warships and planes to the region.
The crisis ended when the Iraqi Government blinked at the 11th hour, but not before the United States had spent billions of dollars to beef up its military forces in the region, disrupting American military planning around the world for months afterward.
The American military force surrounding Iraq grew markedly more powerful this weekend when six B-52 bombers loaded with air-launched cruise missiles departed for the gulf before dawn today from Barksdale Air Force Base, La.
Officials said the B-52's, each loaded with as many as twenty 2,000-pound cruise missiles, had been expected to take part in the attack on Iraq that had been scheduled for today. The heavy bombers are expected to be stationed temporarily at the British air base on Diego Garcia, in the Indian Ocean.
The Air Force said the B-52's were to be followed by a additional fleet of F-15 and F-16 jet fighters and B-1 bombers. Six F-117 fighters, which make use of "stealth" technology that allows them to evade radar, departed today for Kuwait from Hollomon Air Force Base, N.M. The aircraft carrier Enterprise, with about 50 jet fighters, is also en route to the gulf, and is expected to arrive on Nov. 23.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraq's United Nations representative, Nizar Hamdoon, left, discussed Saddam Hussein's letter yesterday with Secretary General Kofi Annan. (United Nations via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GULF STATES (88%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GULF STATES (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; MYERS, STEVEN LEE; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



409 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Indonesia Orders Crackdown
Faced with a huge student protest and an outbreak of rioting and arson, President B. J. Habibie said he would take "firm action" to curb what he called subversive movements in Indonesia. Page 6.
 
Holzman Dead at 78
Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their two National Basketball Association championships, died Friday night. Page 46. 

SPECIAL TODAY
Children's Books
A 32-page section about recent books for children includes the Book Review's choice of the 10 best illustrated children's books of 1998. BOOK REVIEW
 
What We Look Up To Now
Every neighborhood, profession and subculture has its pecking order. That means opportunities for prestige -- and anxiety. A special issue of The Times Magazine today examines status in diverse groups of Americans. MAGAZINE
 
SPECIAL TODAY
A Blizzard of Holiday Movies
On-line romantics, misogynistic bachelors and Rugrats are some of the characters who will fill the screens this holiday season. The film industry is gambling that between shopping and celebrating, Americans will have the time and the desire to sift through a blizzard of almost 100 new movies. ARTS AND LEISURE
 
Inside Greenspan's Head
No longer a single-minded inflation fighter, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, is increasingly preoccupied with markets and with technology. But, can his newfound flexibility sustain the economic expansion? MONEY & BUSINESS
 
Thrills of a Bracing Season
Winter in the Snow: Skiers can choose small-town charm in Sunday River, Me., or big-resort bustle in Whistler, British Columbia. Or they can stretch out at six uncrowded mountains. For those who prefer skating, Toronto is glazed with free rinks. TRAVEL
 
What Went Wrong?
The sanctions were to curb Iraq, not the United States. WEEK IN REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (51%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); CANADA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (51%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); SKIING (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); ARSON (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (62%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



410 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-20
 
Iraqi President Retreats But U.S. Threat Remains
The government of President Saddam Hussein appeared to back down in the face of imminent American attack and said Iraq would resume cooperating with arms inspections. But he initially set conditions on his agreement, and American officials said they would procede with military preparations. 1
 
Air Attacks Called Off
The United States had prepared a broad campaign of air strikes on Iraq but called it off, at least temporarily, after the last-minute flurry of diplomacy. 1 

'Carlos' on Hunger Strike
The terrorist who calls himself Carlos has been on a hunger strike for 11 days, protesting his four years of solitary confinement in a French prison, where he is serving a life sentence for murder. 4
 
China's Economy Slogs Along
President Jiang Zemin of China can go with some pride to Malaysia for a summit meeting of Asian and Pacific leaders; Chinese economic growth is sluggish by recent standards but looks spectacular compared with the rest of Asia's economies. 6
 
Hunger in North Korea
Congressman Tony P. Hall, a Democrat from Ohio who visited remote parts of North Korea this week, said millions of North Koreans might have starved in the last few years. 9
 
Climate Conference Ends
After an all-night session in Buenos Aires, negotiators from more than 150 countries set a deadline of two years for adopting rules for cutting emissions of waste industrial gases that are believed to cause global warming. 11
 
NATIONAL A22-34
 
Con Artists Trading In College Scholarships
As the cost of a college education rises, and the cost of not having one soars, scholarship brokers have proliferated, many on the Internet. The Federal Trade Commission and other watchdog groups warn that the quest for scholarship money has produced new victims for con artists. Federal and Ohio authorities are investigating World Education Access, based in Dayton, Ohio, after students who said they were promised scholarships received invalid checks, or no checks at all. 1
 
Starr Revisits Whitewater
Less than a week before he is scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee, Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, has apparently abandoned his inquiry into the President's sex life, the portion of his investigation that repulsed most Americans. But Mr. Starr has aggressively returned to his original mission, the Clintons' failed real estate venture named Whitewater. 34
 
Foreign Policy Is Foremost
A ruling against the Massachusetts Burma Law, which largely bars the state government from doing business with companies that trade with Myanmar, and the state's planned appeal could ultimately reach the Supreme Court and affect all such local sanctions. The judge said the Burma law infringed on the Government's control of foreign policy. 22
 
Los Angeles Police Monitor
The first person to serve as a public watchdog over the Los Angeles Police Department resigned this week, criticized her bosses for undercutting her authority and touched off concerns that the city's commitment to overhauling the department was wavering. 30
 
NEW YORK/REGION 37-45
 
Remembering a Slain Doctor Who Was Stubbornly Dedicated
Everyone who knew Dr. Barnett A. Slepian, the obstetrician who performed abortions at a clinic in Buffalo until a sniper killed him on Oct. 23, knew that he endured a measure of stress that would exhaust, even break, most people. Strangers pawed through his garbage and growled "murderer" at him at the grocery store. Demonstrators assailed the pregnant patients at his private practice. Friends and relatives of the Buffalo doctor wondered how he held up so long under the strain. 37
 
OBITUARIES 46-47
 
Chess 46
 
Weather 45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); MYANMAR (93%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS BURMA (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); MYANMAR (93%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); OHIO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); STARVATION (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); SENTENCING (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (71%); STUDENT EXPENSES (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EMISSIONS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); MURDER (55%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



411 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: November 8-14;
America Reduces Its Thirst

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
Water use has grown in lockstep with America's population and economy, and many have thought it would always be that way. But according to the United States Geological Survey, the nation used 9 percent less water in 1995 than in 1980, while the population grew by 16 percent. The reversal may reflect a shift in focus away from finding ways to expand the water supply and toward reducing demand. WILLIAM K. STEVENS

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM K STEVENS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



412 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
The N.B.A.'s Owners Continue to Line Up Behind Commissioner Stern

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Donald Sterling, the principal owner of the Los Angeles Clippers, cannot understand why David Stern is being portrayed as the villain by National Basketball Association players in the league's labor dispute.
"We call him Easy Dave," Sterling said of the N.B.A. commissioner. "I don't think Stern would ever take advantage of anybody. I think he wants to leave something on the table for everyone. I have my own ideas, and they're not consistent with Stern's." 
 He added: "I think some owners feel that since we create and make the game and put up the seed money and take all the risk, that perhaps we should get a more equitable distribution of the revenue. Stern is going soft on them."
Sterling's conservative bent appears to be shared by at least some of his peers, although they have lined up behind Stern and Russ Granik, the deputy commissioner, in the standoff with the league's 400-plus players. While union leaders, agents and players have traded verbal attacks with Stern and Granik the past few months, the owners have remained conspicuously voiceless. Discouraged from talking publicly about negotiations -- Stern has threatened fines of up to $1 million and the loss of draft picks -- the owners have remained mostly mum.
But several principal owners broke their silence last week. Frustrated over stalled talks, they were firm in their resolve to cancel the entire 1998-99 season if a settlement cannot be reached.
"We're prepared to gut the season," said Abe Pollin, the chairman of the Washington Wizards and the league's senior owner. "We went into this knowing that if we can't make a fair deal, the season would be gone."
Jerry Colangelo, the owner of the Phoenix Suns, said: "When you have two sides that have deep resolve, something either gives or it doesn't give. I love the game, but not at the price of another mistake."
The owners are seeking to overhaul an agreement that paid the players 57.1 percent of revenues last season. The contract allowed owners to renegotiate if the players' share reached 51.8 percent. While the league has offered a 50-50 split, the players want to be allowed as much as 60 percent of revenues. With that 10 percent chasm, the two sides have not held a bargaining session since Nov. 6. A marathon negotiation on Oct. 28 was perceived to be the closest that owners and players have come to reaching a deal, but since then momentum has died.
"I'm dumbfounded because I thought we were very close," said one owner, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I don't know what happened, other than what you hear about the superstar agents ruining the deal. While I don't believe that, I do think there is a deference to the stars in this league that you're seeing now. And if the stars don't like the deal, everyone goes along.
"Some of the owners are hurting, but everybody's hurting. And it's my perception that the owners can recuperate over time. I don't understand how players with limited careers, guys that may not play for more than a few years, are going to make this money up. It's as if 400 of them are sacrificing for the needs of a few."
The owners who spoke also pledged their allegiance to Stern, who like other sports commissioners during times of labor strife has abdicated his role as neutral arbitrator.
"You're better served by having one voice," Colangelo said. "I've seen many, many players quoted all over the place, and then Billy Hunter, the agents. With Russ and David, I think it was the wise thing to do."
For Stern, whose marketing genius and business acumen are seen as having catapulted the league out of economic ruin as much as its influx of stars in the early 1980's, taking on the mantle of ownership may prove costly. He has less than a month to strike a deal or go down as the first sports commissioner to lose an entire season to labor morass.
"Time will tell how David will be looked upon by the various people involved, be it the media, the fans or the owners," Colangelo said.
"But I don't think there are any regrets from the owners about the decision to make David and Russ the spokespeople. I fall in line the following way: I've been in this league 32 years, and I care about the game. It's been my passion. I believe David shares that same passion."
Stern said: "I'm the person who is charged with managing the lockout, and if it requires us to lose the season, well, that's part of my job. Right now, the business doesn't support the model. Their view is that the owners are supposed to subsidize the sport. If the union leadership is wrong, they will have cost their members $1.1 billion. That's something our players are apparently all behind."
Stern said that having him and Granik speak for the owners was an effort to avoid inflamed passions and destructive dialogue, not to avoid dissent. "You can search the record and you won't find any statements talking about our players in a negative way," he said. "We work hard to counter that because this is not about name-calling. This is about making a deal."
Added Granik: "If there was serious dissent, teams would find a way of getting it out there despite the gag rule. It's not about dissent. It's about getting a deal."
Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, said he did not believe all the owners agreed with the league's current position.
"The only way you can speak with one voice is to silence all the others," he said. "They've also put all of the hawks on the negotiating committee. You haven't heard from them yet, but if you bring in some of these other voices out there, you realize there is some conflict. There are owners who wanted the season to start yesterday."
If there are dissenters, they have kept themselves hidden. Large-market franchises like the Knicks, the Los Angeles Lakers and the Miami Heat take in revenue from a variety of outlets, including local television rights, and are perceived to be among teams that would not object to playing the season under the old agreement. In the original vote to reopen the labor agreement, the Lakers owner Jerry Buss and the Heat chairman Micky Arison, whose team will move into a new arena next year, were the only two members of the nine-member labor negotiating committee who voted against it.
Yet, when a vote of all 29 teams was taken again last March, 27 owners voted to reopen the deal, including Arison and Buss. The two dissenters were Portland's Paul Allen and Boston's Paul Gaston.
Small-market teams with small playoff chances are the ones viewed as willing to cancel the season because they cannot get a return on their investment. But six owners, on condition of anonymity, said they would be unwilling to commit more than 52 percent of revenues toward salaries in the next four years.
Richard DeVos, the owner of the Orlando Magic, spoke to The Orlando Sentinel last week.
"I know they might not like it, but if you want unlimited opportunity, then start your own business," DeVos said, referring to the players. "That's what I did. The players union implied that if any team was making $5 million, then all the other money should go to the players. You have to be kidding me. If you have a $100 million investment, I think you are entitled to make a little profit, have a little fun."
Sterling says he has faith in Stern to negotiate a fair agreement, but like many of his peers, he is a vocal proponent of shutting down the season if a new deal cannot be signed.
"Some of our players have said they believe this is forced slavery and that their cars are being taken away for a horse and buggy," he said. "I guess I'm personally missing something in this whole thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Gund, Cleveland Owner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (84%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (84%); LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (95%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); MARITAL PROPERTY (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; STERN, DAVID (COMR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



413 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ OFFERS STEPS TO AVOID ATTACK; U.S. REJECTS PLAN

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Faced with an imminent American military attack, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq made a show of backing down today, saying in a letter to the United Nations that his Government would resume full cooperation with arms inspectors.
But a two-page annex to the letter outlining Mr. Hussein's interpretation of what he would get in return raised immediate doubts about his sincerity. Excerpts, page 16. Within hours, the Clinton Administration rejected the Iraqi offer as inadequate, and said American forces remained poised to strike. 
 "In order for us to accept the proposition that there will be compliance, there has to be a clear, unequivocal statement to that effect by the Iraqis," Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, said at a news conference in Washington. "What we have instead is a letter, and particularly an annex, that's got more holes than Swiss cheese."
But according to American officials, the Iraqi move did avert military action at least for today. Administration officials said they had canceled a plan to stage a military strike just hours before it was set to begin.
As a further indication that the White House considered the crisis unresolved, President Clinton delayed his trip to Asia today, sending Vice President Al Gore to Malaysia for an economic conference of leaders from Pacific rim countries.
When the United Nations Security Council met here tonight, most members took a different view of the Iraqi letter, saying they were prepared to take Mr. Hussein at his word and urging a quick resumption of weapons inspections.
But the British remained strong in support of Washington's insistence on military preparedness. In London Prime Minister Tony Blair said that until Iraq's compliance was "unconditional," British forces were "on alert to the possibility of military action at any time without further warning."
Still, the British delegates here suggested that London might be willing to give Iraq a chance to re-admit the arms inspectors. Thus, with the United States insistent but somewhat isolated, the Council debate dragged on until near midnight without an agreement about how to respond to Iraq. The session was adjourned until Sunday afternoon.
The annex, which Mr. Annan's special envoy in Baghdad, Prakash Shah, described in an accompanying note as something the Iraqis did not want made public, restates demands by Iraq that have already been rejected by the United States, Britain and other Council members.
Intentionally or not, it could reopen divisions and foment distrust between Russia and the United States in the crucial next few days. Arriving for a Security Council meeting today, Sergey Lavrov, the Russian representative, said the Iraqi conditions in the annex "are beliefs that are going to have to be dealt with."
Publicly, Iraq wrapped its announcement today in a cloak of statesmanship. Diplomats here and officials in Washington said Mr. Hussein, isolated diplomatically even by his friends, had apparently decided to buy time.
"We offer this chance not out of fear of the aggressive American campaign and the threat to commit a new aggression against Iraq," Iraq said in the letter to Secretary General Kofi Annan, "but as an expression of our feeling of responsibility and in response to your appeal and those of our friends."
The letter was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz.
United Nations officials argued that the Iraqis were not hedging their decision to resume cooperation, and that the annex was no more than a wish list. "Our understanding is that the annex to the letter does not constitute conditions," said Fred Eckhard, Mr. Annan's spokesman.
But later in the day, Mr. Annan appeared to be less optimistic, saying only that the letter "made at least a step in the right direction."
Iraq's representative to the United Nations, Nizar Hamdoon, said, "The annex that was delivered with the letter today contains the views and the preferences of the Government of Iraq on the comprehensive review that has been agreed in principle by the Security Council before this recent crisis."
Mr. Hamdoon said the nine points in the annex were not conditions for compliance, and late this evening he submitted a second letter to the Council stating flatly, "This annex was not connected to the decision of Iraq to resume its relations with Unscom and with the I.A.E.A." -- the United Nations Special Commission of arms inspectors and the Interntional Atomic Energy Agency.
The White House rejected the second letter as insufficient. David Leavy, a spokesman for the National Security Council, using words similar to Mr. Berger's earlier, said, "With all due respect to the Iraqi Ambassador to the United Nations, what we are looking for is a clear, public and authoritative statement of compliance -- no conditions."
The annex is a copy of Iraqi policy points as they were presented to Russia, China and France on Friday. The summary was mentioned in the letter as a description of what Iraq would consider a "serious, fair and fruitful" review.
It asks that Baghdad be given direct assurances by the Secretary General or "a delegation from the Council" that its demands, many of which have already been rejected, be taken into account now.
It also asks that the comprehensive review of relations with the United Nations "be carried out within a very short time (seven days for example)" after arms inspectors resume their work. The United States has already suggested that four to six weeks would be more realistic, to allow time to see if inspections were really unfettered.
The annex makes clear that Iraq wants to shift the burden of evidence to the inspection team, forcing it to prove what Iraq is supposed to be hiding rather than allowing the commission to continue compelling Baghdad to produce answers.
The Iraqis want a timetable -- "a short period," they say -- for them to take whatever steps are necessary to close files on weapons programs. Inspectors fear that this will result in pro-forma inspections, after which the Iraqis could declare they had met all their obligations so the economic embargo could be lifted.
The annex again raises questions about the future of Richard Butler, the executive chairman of Unscom, whom Iraq wants dismissed, and of the commission itself, which Iraq wants to make part of the United Nations system. It is now a free-standing creation of the Council.
The Iraqis also reiterated their preference for a comprehensive review to be conducted under Mr. Annan's direction. The Security Council has said it will run that review.
In their public letter to the Secretary General, the Iraqis said the decision to resume cooperation was made today at meetings of the President's Cabinet and party, with Mr. Hussein presiding.
The meetings followed the receipt of a letter on Friday night from Mr. Annan reiterating his warning, in effect, that Iraq could never hope to have sanctions lifted unless it played by the rules, and by appeals from Russia, China and France, among others, the Iraqis said.
Arguing against recent evidence, the letter states that "the goal sought by Iraq was not to sever the relationship with Unscom and the I.A.E.A."
"The leadership of Iraq decided to resume working with the Special Commission and the I.A.E.A. and to allow them to perform their normal duties," the letter said.
The first hint that Iraqi would back down came early today from an unidentified Iraqi official in Baghdad. A few hours later, Mr. Shah, Mr. Annan's envoy, said publicly that the Iraqis had agreed "without conditions" to resume cooperation, which was broken off on Oct. 31.
As Mr. Shah spoke, the Secretary General was meeting with Mr. Hamdoon at Mr. Annan's official residence in New York. There, Mr. Annan took a call from Mr. Aziz, and they discussed the letter.
Mr. Annan made a last-minute appeal to Mr. Hussein in his letter on Friday, after a meeting with the Security Council that lasted nearly five hours. The Secretary General, who had abruptly cut off a trip in North Africa on Wednesday to confront the crisis, said after the marathon session, "Events on the ground seem to be running away from us."
By that time, the Iraqi President had been warned by virtually all his erstwhile friends -- Russia, France, China and the Arab nations -- that he would take the blame for bringing down American missiles on his country and people. Even governments that oppose the use of force to settle this crisis had made it clear that the Iraqis were isolated in their defiance.
The present crisis with Iraq, which came on the heels of a year of confrontations, has its roots in a decision by Mr. Hussein on Aug. 5 to curtail cooperation with inspectors who biological, chemical and prohibited missile systems.
They and their counterparts from the International Atomic Energy Agency, which watched nuclear developments, were forbidden to make new on-site searches and were restricted to using existing monitoring systems -- cameras, and air, soil and water samplers -- and to making routine visits to previously agreed sites. That move set off alarms here, because the Security Council had intended the inspectors to continue unannounced searches even after sanctions end.
In early September, the Council responded with a resolution that ended all further sanctions reviews, and therefore hopes of having the embargo lifted, until weapons inspections resumed.
In the meantime, the Security Council and the Secretary General were working on plans for a comprehensive review of Iraq's relations with the United Nations, going back to the 1990 invasion of Kuwait, when sanctions were imposed.
Iraq has also made demands about how the review should be conducted.
On Oct. 30, the Council laid out its plans for conducting a review. It did not promise more than a new look at sanctions after Iraq had met all its disarmament requirements. The next day, Mr. Hussein surprised everyone involved by shutting down the inspection system entirely. In the face of possible American bombing, all the inspectors have now been withdrawn from Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



414 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: City's Perverse Welfare Policy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You say Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani boasts of getting people off the welfare rolls (editorial, Nov. 12). It is not clear, however, whether these people are finding jobs. In fact, the Giuliani administration is reluctant to release figures, so determining the truth is difficult. 
 Even if this rosy view were true, does a job promise a living wage? Of American families classified as poor in 1997, 66 percent had at least one member working full time. Also, what will happen to welfare recipients in New York City when the inevitable economic downturn arrives?
Mayor Giuliani should concentrate less on creating a positive spin and more on creating jobs with livable wages.
 
CRAIG BUTLER
New York, Nov. 12, 1998
 
The writer is executive director of the Business, Labor and Community Coalition of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS, LABOR AND COMMUNITY COLAITION OF NEW YORK

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS, LABOR AND COMMUNITY COLAITION OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); JOB CREATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BUTLER, CRAIG RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



415 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: City's Perverse Welfare Policy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Why hold off giving a welfare applicant an application for food stamps or Medicaid (editorial, Nov. 12)? Do we not have unintentional delay enough in our response to the needs of people to discourage the applicant who is not truly in need? Or do we presume that most welfare applicants are looking for a free lunch? 
 Welfare is a necessary accommodation for the weaknesses in our economic, social and personal lives. It does not have to be a trap. It does not need delays to erode its existence. It will recede when we remedy our economic, social and personal weaknesses: a challenge that will require more creative strategies than postponement.
 
FRANCES A. SULLIVAN
Brooklyn, Nov. 13, 1998
 
The writer is a former Human Resources Administration official.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (84%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (84%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (84%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (84%); NEW YORK, USA (84%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (84%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (88%); MEDICAID (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); WRITERS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, FRANCES A FRANCES A SULLIVAN BROOKLYN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



416 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 3; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: GRAND OLD TERMINAL;
SOME 'AMAZING GRACE'

 BODY:
WENDY LAMB, a Manhattan book editor, wrote the Oct. 4 Soapbox essay, chronicling milestones of her life that occurred in Grand Central Terminal. She suggested that others record their memories of the place. The City section solicited "most memorable moments" and here are a few:
Back in New York City after a five-year hiatus. After work, I cut through Grand Central. My thoughts, anxiety-filled: The job . . . the condo in Cleveland . . . the husband back in Cleveland trying to sell the condo . . . recession.
Suddenly, I'm transfixed by a singer's sonorous tones: "Amazing grace, how sweet the sound . . . I once was lost. . . ." Yes, I was lost without this fair city. "But now am found." This will always be my town! "Was blind but now I see." Fears, entirely relieved.
 
CYNTHIA SODERHOLM
Sutton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

PERSON: SODERHOLM, CYNTHIA; LAMB, WENDY WENDY LAMB (60%); CYNTHIA SODERHOLM SUTTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



417 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Honoring Past Beauty In Theaters of Present

BYLINE: By E. KYLE MINOR 

 BODY:
IF the success of Theater Projects Consultants can be distilled into one philosophy, it's "Back to the Future." That concept, in fact, served as the company's mantra long before the 1985 film that made Michael J. Fox a movie star.
"People do say that expression around here, yes," said Richard Pilbrow, founder and chairman of the Ridgefield-based company. "That's because there's a lot to learn from the classical architecture of the past, I guess." Or, as the company's president of the past 19 months, Victor Gotesman, put it: "We recognize the beauty of the past while celebrating the advantages of the future." 
 This helps explain the sense of deja vu that strikes an audience the moment it lands in a T.P.C.-related performing arts venue: the immediacy of high-tech performance within the intimate style of the old European opera houses.
With 600 projects worldwide, T.P.C. is arguably the busiest performing arts venue consultant operating today. The company has worked with the Tanglewood Music Center in Lenox, Mass., and the New Amsterdam Theater on Broadway as well as the 300-seat Centennial Theater at the Westminster School in Simsbury and the 350-seat Greenwich Academy theater, among others.
"I think one reason we're successful certainly is that we've been doing it longer than everybody else," said Mr. Pilbrow.
"Another is that all our staff consists of practicing theater artists. We work in the theater, so we understand the needs of the artists creating the work as well as those of the audience."
The 40-person staff consists of production managers, stage managers, set designers, architects, sound designers and arts administrators. Mr. Pilbrow is a former London producer and a current Broadway lighting designer. His last Broadway project, Cy Coleman's musical "The Life," earned him his second Tony nomination.
Mr. Gotesman, formerly executive director of the Cerritos Center for the Performing Arts in Cerritos, Calif., first met Mr. Pilbrow when T.P.C. worked on the Cerritos building. Brian Hall, T.P.C.'s director of design in North America, owned an architectureal firm in Toronto, specializing in performing arts centers. He too met Mr. Pilbrow when they were teamed up on several projects.
"It was sort of like the Victor Kiam thing," Mr. Hall said, referring to the Remington owner, who said "I liked the blade so much I bought the company."
With all the talent Mr. Pilbrow has assembled, T.P.C. is equipped to advise on nearly every detail of a performing arts center, from the architecture of the building to the placement of its drinking fountains.
David Taylor, a lighting and scenic designer with 15 years at the company, says teamwork keeps the staff's egos from clashing. "Everyone helps and complements each other," said Mr. Taylor. "We can cover each other on big projects."
Mr. Taylor added that the staff is free to pursue individual projects, helping keep everybody fresh.
"I still get time to continue my scenic and lighting design work," he said. "Richard, in fact, encourages us to keep up our own work."
When Mr. Pilbrow started his theatrical profession four decades ago technology was relatively primitive. In fact, many of the jobs listed on today's play programs didn't exist when Mr. Pilbrow graduated from drama school in London.
"There were no sound designers, lighting designers or even any theater architects," Mr. Pilbrow said. "No new theaters were being built in England. Everything was technically very old-fashioned."
Trained as a stage manager, Mr. Pilbrow considered himself lucky to walk into a long-running production of "Teahouse of the August Moon" in London. "The trouble," he said, "is that long runs are terribly boring to work. I started lighting shows, which was more interesting. I also got the idea of renting out lighting equipment. I went out and bought up a bunch of old equipment, fixed it up and went into business for myself."
Mr. Pilbrow, who was looking for more business in America, arrived in New York in 1961. "I stayed with my friend Tony Walton, who was married to Julie Andrews," he said.
The producer Hal Prince was one of the people he met, and Mr. Prince's project at the time was Stephen Sondheim's "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." While Mr. Prince already had a lighting designer in hand, he hired Mr. Pilbrow to design scenic projections to compliment Mr. Walton's scene design.
"When Hal was looking to bring the show to England," Mr. Pilbrow said, "he asked Tony and me if we were interested in producing for him. We actually were. Though Tony abandoned producing thereafter, I continued to produce Hal's shows in London."
Mr. Pilbrow continued producing Mr. Prince's musicals in England into the 80's, including "Fiddler on the Roof," "Cabaret," "Company" and "A Little Night Music." When Mr. Pilbrow, his wife, Molly, and daughter Daisy, now 18, moved to Ridgefield in 1988 (they also have homes in Manhattan and in Scotland), he retired from producing, although his plate remains overflowing.
"Our work takes years of commitment, even the smaller projects," Mr. Pilbrow said, as much as 20 years in some cases. "It's not just that we get involved from the start," Mr. Taylor said. "Theater people are known for changing their minds."
Usually T.P.C. starts each project with a feasibility study. This entails going into the community where the project will exist to see if there is an audience to support the venue.
"We also evaluate the space, costs, time investment," Mr. Pilbrow said. "Sometimes we'll do a study and not hear back from the people for years."
Or, as Mr. Hall put it, "Theater people tend to have unlimited vision and limited resources."
Much of T.P.C.'s consultation comes with compromise. "Three-quarters of it, actually," Mr. Pilbrow said. "We're lucky to have some very large projects, enabling us to play a little Robin Hood."
Mr. Pilbrow remembers one particularly satisfying project involving a theater with empty pockets.
He was working in the National Theater of Great Britain, he said, "and this man walked in and said he'd like us to do his theater. He said he had no money, but liked our work."
The man was the director Michael Elliott, who started the Royal Exchange Theater in Manchester. "He wanted a courtyard-style theater in the round, which I hadn't done before," Mr. Pilbrow recalled. "It took some time, but we did it."
The courtyard theater, now T.P.C.'s signature style, recalls the 16th-century Italian opera houses, or the Globe Theater of Shakespeare's day. The audience on the ground floor looks up at the stage and is surrounded by several tiers of balconies stacked overhead. In the Royal Exchange Theater, none of the 700 seats is farther than 32 feet away from the stage.
"It's like acting under a magnifying glass," Mr. Pilbrow said.
Mr. Hall added that "theaters since the 1960's have all been designed like movie houses. You have these long orchestra sections and a few balconies, which are fine if you're watching a 20-foot-high 'Hamlet' on the screen. They aren't very conducive to live performance."
"The old opera houses had several balconies, which kept you close to the action. We like that."
"Another problem," Mr. Pilbrow said, "is the economy of theater. All the managers want 3,000-seat houses thinking that the more seats, the more money. The horrible truth is that anything over 2,000 seats is too big for an enjoyable experience."
The New Amsterdam, a Disney project on 42d Street, perhaps best exemplifies T.P.C.'s knack for combining the best of the new and the classic. The landmark theater, originally built by Florence Ziegfeld in 1903, had been idle since the 60's and was in painful disrepair. Mr. Taylor, the project manager, had his work cut out for him.
"The building itself has taken about four years," he said. "That's not including all the research involved."
"We found the original structure drawings at the Shubert office," Mr. Taylor said. "Without that, we couldn't be sure of copying everything in its original detail."
With drawings in hand, the architects, Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, restored every gilded detail on the 1,800-seat house.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Pilbrow, right, of Theater Projects Consultants, looking over renovation work in the Selwyn Theater on West 42d Street in Manhattan. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: THEATER PROJECTS CONSULTANTS CO NEW AMSTERDAM BOOKS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: THEATER PROJECTS CONSULTANTS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (75%); FESTIVALS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: PILBROW, RICHARD; MINOR, E KYLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



418 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 10; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Playing, Singing, Speaking and 'Doing Politics'

BYLINE: By RICHARD TRENNER 

DATELINE: FAR HILLS

 BODY:
THE inevitable epidemics of runny noses and daydreaming aside, the Far Hills Country Day School kindergarten is a happy, lively place, where children are kept busy learning to play games, sing, feel good about being away from home, and "share." In this regard, it is a typical kindergarten.
But Far Hills Country Day, a private institution on 45 acres, is situated in an area in which it is not uncommon to see advertisements for residences like Blythewood, a century-old house on Bernardsville Mountain that features "a 50-foot ballroom with gold leaf ceiling, sweeping marble staircase, and 90-foot loggia." Even in kindergarten, there are bound to be differences. 
 When a former kindergartner visits, he might be Nicholas Brady, former Senator and Secretary of the Treasury. Growing up at Hamilton Farm, his family's 5,000-acre estate encompassing parts of Hunterdon, Morris, and Somerset counties, he spent six "wonderful years" at Far Hills Country Day. Four of his children and four of his grandchildren have followed him there. When Governor Whitman graduated from the eighth grade in 1960, her mother, Eleanor Schley Todd, was chairman of the board and very active at the school.
Another difference is that kindergartners at Far Hills are taught public speaking. Microphone in hand, every child is encouraged to stand and deliver before a weekly gathering of teachers and students -- early exercises in quick thinking and confidence-building.
"Public speaking starts in kindergarten and continues through eighth grade," Jayne Geiger Wyatt, the head of school, said in a recent interview. "The idea is to help the children be confident about what they believe and also learn to articulate and defend those beliefs. In kindergarten, the atmosphere for public speaking is very supportive and informal. In the upper grades, sixth through eighth, the process becomes more formal, the topics more complex, like questions of social justice or women's roles."
As the idea of 5-year-olds addressing their peers suggests, training for leadership, whether in doing business or in "doing politics," starts early in the Somerset Hills. And, more than any other institution there, Far Hills Country Day School is the traditional first training ground.
The sense of continuity among generations and the belief in giving back through public service or philanthropy seem important aspects of the school's identity. Beside the door to each classroom a plaque bears the name of one or more donors and the school's motto: "In virtute multi ascensus" (In excellence there are many degrees). Moreover, the children participate in outreach, like working with developmentally delayed children at the Jerry Davis Early Childhood Center in Manville.
Along with the emphasis on helping others, a central part of the school's mission is to prepare children for leadership later in life. "Learning how to attain excellence early in unique, individual ways is an essential pattern for later success," Mrs. Geiger Wyatt said.
In an upper school classroom, with lovely western views of Somerset and Hunterdon counties, the walls are covered with tools for learning success. On a bulletin board, a list of assemblies tells of a coming visit from Quentin Keynes, a great-grandson of Charles Darwin, who will "talk about time he spent on remote islands in the Indian Ocean." Nearby, a posted math problem begins: "A company offers two options for sales partners . . ."
Tacked to a bulletin board at the front of the classroom, a poster presents a brief history of the New York Stock Exchange, while the headline from a newspaper clipping reads: "Dow Tumbles 6%, Erasing Gains for 1998."
In recent years, according to Judith Ann Corrente, president of the board from 1993 to 1997 and parent of three Far Hills graduates, the school has made "a strong effort to be more inclusive, both geographically and socio-economically."
"As we burnished the school's academic reputation and introduced need-based and merit-based scholarships, we were able to develop a significantly more diverse school community," Ms. Corrente said. RICHARD TRENNER

GRAPHIC: Photos: Susan Mody, a kindergarten teacher, helps Christopher Chuckran take his turn at the microphone; Microphone in hand, every child is encouraged to stand and deliver before teachers and students. On this day, Harrison Grymes, a kindergartner, takes his turn. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR HILLS COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (FAR HILLS, NJ) FAR HILLS COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAR HILLS COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (FAR HILLS, NJ) FAR HILLS COUNTRY DAY SCHOOL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (71%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (70%); WOMEN (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (62%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); 

PERSON: TRENNER, RICHARD JUDITH ANN CORRENTE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



419 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Long And Short of It Is Long and Short of It. Then There's the Bar.

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
Most of the visitors at this trade show arrived in limousines, as one would expect. Some then tried to sell the limousines, and some shopped for more limousines. Those not too hung over from the toga party or the beach bash reported for morning seminars on topics like chauffeur training tips.
In this city, with its already high resident-to-limousine ratio, they were not even conspicuous. They were highly concentrated, though, at the annual Limousine Digest show: 5,000 people who live limousines coursed into an arena at the Trump Taj Mahal last week to peer into cars with fiber-optic stargazer ceilings, oriental rugs, pull-down television screens and, above all, elaborate bars. 
 "I could use this in New York," Frank Ray said as he sidled up to a $130,000 white Hummer stretched to 30 feet. "It's murder in the city." The Hummer, with a fog machine and laser-show setup in the back, was one of the biggest items, literally and figuratively, in the arena. It was a powerful distraction for customers like Mr. Ray, who as owner of F & Z Transportation in Freeport, N.Y., was shopping for a limousine bus for missions like transporting groups of church ladies.
While the industry is growing even faster than the economy -- Ric Cohen, president of Limousine Digest, estimates that the number of limousine vehicles on the roads has increased from 45,000 to 60,000 in about two years -- the consensus here was that the mom-and-pop owners who have dominated the business for years are getting squeezed by big corporate owners. It was a big corporate owner, Scott A. Solombrino of Dav El Chauffeured Transportation, who gave the keynote address, telling show-goers in nylon jackets how to compete with the publicly held giants that are scooping up small operations. (Dav El is privately held.)
"It comes down to service, service and more service," Mr. Solombrino said in an interview inside his personal bus. "Everybody has a favorite restaurant and a favorite waiter. You're not going to say, 'I'm going to go to McDonald's because it's a bigger company.' You're spending day after day with the president of a company, his wife and children. They're not going to change the guy who drives the kids to school."
He added, "People with money spend it well, and God bless them."
Mr. Solombrino, who started his business as a college student and now has 11,000 limos in 400 cities, is chauffeured everywhere. His bus has a microwave and a fruit bowl on the kitchen counter, thermostat and humidity gauge on the wall, and two sleeping compartments with royal blue comforters that match the color scheme in the back bedroom.
The typical limousine -- and that would be a Lincoln Town Car, cut in half and stretched with panels four to ten feet long -- is not especially showy. As for the corporate clients who are the largest single source of revenue in the industry, "to them a car's a car," one dealer said with a wave of the hand.
"It used to be only for the rich and famous," said Carl Geiger of Atlantic Limousine in Atlantic City. When he was the teen-age heir to his family's business, Mr. Geiger said, "I used to go out in a limo with my friends, and at intersections girls would knock on the windows; now it's more, well, a vehicle for everybody."
At times, some of the operators say, this is just a little too true. Prom season wears on drivers' nerves, for example, although 18-year-olds out on the town are better than the dreaded bachelor parties.
"Bachelorette parties," said Armando Ocando, owner of All Star Limousines in Pittsburgh, emphasizing the "-ette." "The women are the worst. They're not used to drinking as much as the men are."
Don Wilson of V.I.P. Limousine Service in Macomb, Mich., said: "You don't want to know what people do back there. No, I don't want to say. Well, we've had girls standing up on the sunroofs taking their tops off."
The fellowship of limousine people let loose a little itself on this rare escape from a job that knows no weekends. The awards dinner was warm with gossip and applause. At the toga party afterward only a few ties appeared, and some partygoers showed no evidence of clothing beneath their sheets. One man danced in a black terrycloth bathrobe.
The next morning, shopping resumed. At the silent auction of used vehicles in the Taj Mahal garage, Mr. Ocando showed off his White Diamond limo, which he said "takes after the Dusenberg."
The white car, with gold eagle on the hood and trumpets arrayed between the headlights, brings $100 an hour for weddings. But Mr. Ocando said he needed to sell it to buy something else, which he hoped he could drive home, in the caravan of limousine guys from Pittsburgh, across the Pennsylvania Turnpike.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The hit of the limo show was the stretch Hummer, top, with a price tag of $130,000. Above, Matt Krutka, left, and Tommy Robinson watch a video on a car television. And at left, more than three is no crowd aboard a customized bus. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LIMOUSINES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS TRADE SHOWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CASINOS (74%); RESORTS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); CHILDREN (64%); THERMAL SENSORS (60%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



420 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Deeds Delayed, Loans Lost

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
In a room inside the Essex County Hall of Records, stacks of boxes are filled with unopened envelopes containing property deeds and checks covering recording fees that officials say easily total hundreds of thousands of dollars. For those trying to make the most of low interest rates by buying a hew home or refinancing their old one, the "unopened" part has left them furious, and maybe poorer.
The envelopes have been mailed to Carole A. Graves, the county Register of Deeds and Mortgages, by people seeking to have their deeds recorded, officially proving to banks, mortgage companies and real estate lawyers that they are the rightful owners of a particular house, candy store, vacant lot or other property. Without that proof, property owners have trouble obtaining a home equity loan or line of credit, refinancing a mortgage or selling their property. 
 But a two-month backlog in the register's office at least since the spring means many property owners have, at the least, been inconvenienced. And, county officials acknowledged, the undeposited checks for the deed search, costing $15 and up, represent money lost to the county for now. Ms. Graves noted that $7 million in checks had been received by her office through August.
Ms. Graves said the strong economy and rapidly falling interest rates generated a spurt in real estate transactions, just when illnesses and pregnancies among half a dozen workers in the register's office effectively cut the staff by about a third. She also said the office's computer system, installed in 1988, finally crashed for good in June, after periodic outages. Aside from the crash's disruption, Ms. Graves said, workers needed time for training on a temporary network.
M. Dean Haines, president of the County Officers Association of New Jersey, said there had been modest backlogs across the state as a result of record numbers of mortgage refinancings to take advantage of low interest rates. But, said Mr. Haines, who is the Ocean County clerk, the situation in Essex is worse because of its simultaneous computer and personnel problems.
One family affected by delay in Essex County is that of Michael Andriolo Jr., 79, of West Orange. He said a two-month wait caused him to cancel a home equity loan application. He had transferred ownership of his house to his three grown children, two of whom already live with him, and planned to expand it to accommodate his third, Michael 3d, who recently retired as a teacher in South Carolina. But because Mr. Andriolo Jr. only recently got his deed, construction will have to be postponed to spring, to keep winter cold away from exposed walls. Michael 3d will be spending money on renting an apartment in Verona for several months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESSEX COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (91%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



421 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED;
Making Their Hair Not Curl

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
SOME call it an addiction. They must have it once, twice or three times a week.
The truly indulgent need it twice a day, before and after work. 
 Do it once, they say, before a special occasion, and you will never be able to stop.
That works out well for Robert Lyon, a hair stylist at the Peter Coppola salon on Madison Avenue, who because of his magic fingers and upper-arm strength is in constant demand. On Halloween night, Mr. Lyon, who is in his 20's and has a soothing English accent, had to get to bed early for an 8:30 house call the following morning, a Sunday, to a woman on Park Avenue.
Why?
To blow out her hair before she went to church.
For all the New York women, whether heading to the Park Avenue Methodist Church or to Moomba, who love to sport a straight, shiny, smooth-hair look, with just the right flip and swing, there is an army of people like Mr. Lyon. They will tug on their locks with big, round brushes for 20 to 40 minutes and dry them with a jet blast of hot air.
The demand for the talents of blow-dry specialists, who charge from $20 (Astor Place Hair Stylists) to $275 (John Sahag salon on Madison Avenue), seems to be at an all-time high. That is because the long curl-free look, as flaunted by women from Jennifer Aniston on "Friends" to Hillary Rodham Clinton on the cover of the coming December Vogue, bespeaks power and unassailable style at this moment, especially in New York. It has led to a virtual cult of the blowout, as the blow-dry is often called.
"Eighty-five percent of my business is from blow-drying," said Renato Vasconcellos, the owner of Color and Cut on East 43d Street, an economy-class hair salon that does a land-office business weekday evenings in the hour preceding cocktail parties and dinners.
Around 6 P.M., "the place is a nightmare," Mr. Vasconcellos said, filled with clients from midtown office buildings, their heads wrapped in towels after a quick shampoo or just a wet-down -- but generally not a hair cut -- awaiting their blowouts.
Before last week's charity reception for the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, held at the Chanel store on East 57th Street, the Frederic Fekkai salon in the same building was packed with partygoers waiting for a blowout by Ronald Braso, a stylist who is a favorite of the preppy set. "We had a cocktail party before the cocktail party," Mr. Braso said, describing how the women gossiped and sipped soda as he twirled his round, natural-bristle brushes into their hair, working the brushes like rollers.
Just as women who dyed their hair once had a secret that "only their hairdresser knew for sure," many devotees of the blowout conceal it. They want friends and colleagues to think their hair is naturally straight and full.
(Some blow-dry specialists are also secretive, because they do not fully report earnings. One such stylist, who spoke on the condition that his identity not be revealed, said, "You can't believe how much money we're making just to blow out hair." He charges $60 a house call, $100 to $150 on weekends, and admitted making more than $1,000 a week off the books.)
But other women are proud of the fact that they are getting their hair blown out regularly, since it smacks of a luxury once available only to the rich.
In the 1960's and 70's, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis had her hair blown out two or three times a week, either at home or at Kenneth, the salon in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. "If she had things to do, things that mattered, she wanted to look polished and together," Kenneth Battelle, the salon's owner, said.
It was an era when the approach many women took to styling was to visit a salon once a week to have their hair set, then to petrify it with spray so they wouldn't have to touch it until the next visit.
Now, many more women avail themselves of a beauty treatment once the exclusive preserve of the super-chic. "All those girls, models, have their hair and makeup done before they go to parties, and that's why they look so good -- not because they're models," Candace Bushnell, the author of "Sex and the City," said. "Who knew? How come no one ever told us to do this before?" Now Ms. Bushnell gets her hair blown out two to three times a week. "The problem is you get addicted to blow-drying because your hair looks so much better instead of the ratty mess before," she added.
Stephanie Greenfield, 31, owner of the hip clothing store Scoop, has standing appointments two mornings a week at Color and Cut to get her long, wavy hair blown out by Bernadette Brady (although only Brian Devine at Garren New York is allowed to cut her hair). With someone holding her toy poodle, Annabelle, Ms. Greenfield does paperwork while getting her hair blow-dried.
Cheryl Kramer, 29, a beauty director at Fitness magazine, is also usually in a hurry, so she goes to the John Frieda salon, where two people, at the same time, blow out her reddish-brown hair. One person directs the air and someone else holds the brush. She calls it her "menage a trois blow-dry."
And Lizzie Grubman, 27, the owner of a public relations agency, has her hair blown out four times a week by four different stylists -- at home, in her office and in the salon. "No one has ever seen me with curly hair," she said, "and they never will."
Why all the fuss about a salon blow-dry? The home blow-dryer, after all, has been around for decades, so presumably most women would have learned to master it by now. But devotees say an expert can do a better job. When the hair is wet, a stylist with a blow-dryer pulls out sections of hair with a round bristle brush and stretches the hair until it dries straight inch by inch.
"The obsession is that since hair has gotten longer and less layered, and the finishing has gotten smooth and straight, women can't do that on their own," said Garren, owner of the Garren New York salon at Henri Bendel, where a blowout is $70 to $110. "Since the clothes have become more minimal and the hair has become simpler, there isn't a lot going on. It's smooth and simple, shiny and swings. Women love hair that swings."
Hair experts say the blow-out-only salon visit is mainly a New York phenomenon, although it is also found in Los Angeles. Elsewhere, it is almost unknown. In Washington, where Mr. Braso of Fekkai worked until recently, he said stylish women dress in evening gowns with beautiful jewelry, but leave for parties with their hair still wet from the shower. Why such a difference between the two cities? New York women, he surmised, are more image-conscious, thanks to all the photographers snapping them at parties for magazines.
Many women in a hurry press salons to speed their blowouts, and the salons in turn are using hotter dryers, which leads to hair damage, says Dr. Steven Victor, a dermatologist at Lenox Hill Hospital, who has a private practice on the Upper East Side.
"Remember, 10 years ago the blow-dryers were 500 or 700 watts," he said. "Now I think I've seen one for 2,000 watts."
"Hair is dead protein that has moisture and water," Dr. Victor added. "When it's moist, it's bendable and pliable. When you dry it out, you take out all the moisture and it's basically burning it and it breaks."
He said hair can endure regular blow-drying, but that practitioners should slow down, use less heat and apply a hair conditioner with animal protein twice a week.
At a party on Wednesday night for the shoemaker Sergio Rossi at Simply Caviar, a restaurant on Park Avenue, an informal survey revealed that 1 out of 10 women had had her hair blown out that evening.
Randy Spendlove, 33, a vice president for music and soundtracks at Miramax Films, recalled his surprise at discovering the love affair of New York women for the blowout. He had no idea so many of the women he met really had curly hair. He recalled one day coming across an acquaintance at the gym, when her hair was curled from sweat. "I had no idea who she was," he said.
The woman probably didn't want him to.
Because, like the Wicked Witch of the West, there is one thing that instantly spells the demise of blow-dried hair, no matter how expensively styled.
"Water is our enemy," Ms. Grubman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Twice a week at the Color and Cut salon in New York, round brushes and blasts of hot air straighten out Stephanie Greenfield's long and wavy hair. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COLOR&CUT (55%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLOR&CUT (55%); NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HAIR HAIR STYLING SERVICES (76%); WOMEN (74%); HALLOWEEN (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (61%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JENNIFER ANISTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



422 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2718 words

HEADLINE: Scrub-a-Dub-Dub, There's Money In That Tub

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY

 BODY:
NEW YORK, no matter what Mayor Giuliani says, is still a filthy place. But fear not. All over town, professional dirt-busters are at the ready to purge the darkest, most forbidden corners of the Naked City, like behind the toilet and under the couch.
The city's housecleaning industry is booming, people in the business say, as more New Yorkers seem willing to pay someone else to scrub the toilet, damp-mop the kitchen and dust the tchotchkes on the mantle. What was once considered a luxury for Fifth Avenue matrons and assorted parvenus has become a near necessity for many working New Yorkers, whose household calculus has changed with the upswing in the city's economy. Too busy or too tired to clean, they reckon it's better, and sometimes more cost effective, to hire someone than to spend hours hunting dust bunnies behind the davenport. 
 And while nobody ever got rich cleaning anything, plenty of New Yorkers are making money taking brush and bucket to the dirt in strangers' homes. For Lynette Bell, a former welfare recipient who trains and supervises teams from the Call-a-Maid company at grand manors like the deanery at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, cleaning puts food on the table. For Richard Sauer, a former instructor at the Rhode Island School of Design who gets clients through an agency for artist-cleaners called Manhattan Feather Dusters, cleaning up other people's messes is more than a way to supplement his income as artist. He also appreciates the flexible hours and sense of Zenlike peace he gets from unsullying someone else's house when they're not home.
And for Jim Ireland, an actor, cleaning turned out to be such a great gig he started his own company, White Glove Elite. Mr. Ireland, who dashes from auditioning to vacuuming to running an empire of 65 independent cleaners and 700 clients out of a small midtown office, said his business has tripled in the last two years.
"The demand is tremendous," he said. "Many people like myself are having their apartments cleaned. A few years ago, they definitely would have done it themselves. But many clients are waiters and bartenders. They make far more per hour than what it costs per hour to have someone clean."
"For many New Yorkers, housecleaners have become habit," he added. "It's one of the last things to go. People will give up fancy meals and nice clothes before they give up their maid."
Jerry Bohne, a 25-year veteran of the housekeeping business in New York and the owner of three domestic employment agencies on the Upper East Side, also said that business was flourishing.
"In the last few years it's increased tremendously," he said. "More people are working more, including both parents in many families. That means two incomes but much less time."
And an increasingly affluent yuppie class has fueled demand for more rent-a-Hazels. "These days there are a lot of 21- to 35-year-olds on Wall Street making big money right out of college," Mr. Bohne said. "They start at $75,000, but they work very, very hard. They have no time to clean. They do, however, have the money to clean."
Because housecleaning is an unorganized and a largely unregulated industry, nobody can say exactly how big the business is or how much cleaners typically earn a year. There's no umbrella organization or union for housecleaners, little payroll reporting and no official count of cleaning companies (though some domestic employment agencies are licensed). Many domestic workers are undocumented aliens who inhabit a tax-free world of cash-only work and quiet referrals among neighbors and friends.
Still, the Yellow Pages show a 39 percent increase in ads for companies that offer cleaning services between 1994 and 1998, to 198 companies this year from 142 in 1994, said Phil Santoro, a spokesman for Bell Atlantic Yellow Pages. "It's definitely a growth industry," he said. The Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, which tracks salaried employees in private homes -- a small fraction of those who do household work -- reports that the number of such jobs in the city grew 21.6 percent between 1992 and 1997, to 15,156 from 12,466.
Housecleaners, who often work alone in an empty apartment, are afforded glimpses into intimate aspects of private lives that many people wouldn't feel comfortable sharing with friends. They see what's in the refrigerator, the garbage and the closet; they inspect underwear. And they do it with the client's permission.
"Being a cleaner is just like being a detective," said Bill Leonhart, a linguist and musician who cleans for Manhattan Feather Dusters. He said he can tell a room's recent history by its mess. Was there a party? A fight? An intimate dinner? "There are always clues," he said. "By inference, you can put together everything that went on there since the last time you cleaned. You learn the details of people's lives."
Louise Rafkin, a housecleaner and the author of "Other People's Dirt" (Algonquin, 1998), also sees cleaning as inadvertent espionage. Ms. Rafkin, who used to work in New York but now lives in California, said housecleaners gathered intelligence from phone messages, shopping lists, open mail and the medicine cabinet. "Prozac, I learned, is Manhattan popcorn," she said.
"The great thing about New York," she added, "is that there are so many people, you can dump clients and go on. And New Yorkers live less in their houses, so it's a bit easier. Most New York refrigerators contain just vitamins, drugs and those little pouches of duck sauce from the Chinese takeout."
But cleaning is not just a sightseeing tour through someone else's life. Ana K., who works for a cleaning company in Manhattan and who would not give her full name for fear of being fired, said clients sometimes treated her terribly. On one job, "at a huge but tacky mansion with gold faucets and Jacuzzis in the bedrooms," she said, "the woman followed me around, making me do everything over. In the bathroom, she screamed that I missed one hair on the floor. Instead of letting me pick it up, she made me wash and wax the floor again."
Ana, who is a legal immigrant, plans to quit the cleaning business entirely. But for undocumented workers, like Silvia Moreno, housecleaning is one of their few options. Ms. Moreno arrived last year from Peru after her sisters wrote from New York saying she could make $6.50 an hour cleaning, a princely sum by Peruvian standards.
Ms. Moreno, who entered the country on a tourist visa, found herself scouring a Fifth Avenue apartment the following day, having been recommended for the job by her cousin, who also cleans. "I'd never seen anything like it, not even in the movies," she said.
Her experience was anything but grand. "They kept yelling, ordering me around," she said. "I didn't understand a word. It was very scary." The myriad cleaning products were bewildering, especially for someone who grew up without running hot water. "I had no idea what to use on what," Ms. Moreno said. "Everything looked and smelled so strange." After cleaning the floors with Raid, she said, she was fired and went home in tears.
Recent immigrants, many of them illegal, often have a tough time, said Jerry Dominguez, a union representative for Unite, the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees, and head of the Mexican American Workers Association. "We've had many problems with agencies that charge workers a $100 fee, then fire them in two or three weeks before they even get paid," Mr. Dominguez said. "They are too afraid or too ignorant to seek help."
Mr. Dominguez said some undocumented immigrants who clean work 12-hour days, six days a week, for about $3 an hour. And some legal immigrants, he said, must fight to get paid for every hour they have worked. Some, he continued, are intimidated into not quitting. "They are told that it's illegal to work for another company," Mr. Dominguez said. "Or if they quit, they won't receive back pay."
But for others, like Lynette Bell, cleaning for a living is thoroughly enjoyable. "When people come home to a clean place, it picks them right up," she said. "It clears some space, clears their head. Dust and dirt are so depressing to come home to. It makes me feel good to deal with it for them."
A couple of weeks ago she was supervising three women as they all cleaned the four-story, 12-bedroom deanery of St. John the Divine, next to the cathedral. "I just love coming here!" she said. "The first time, I was so excited. I'd never seen a house so big. I couldn't wait to clean this thing."
Ms. Bell spent a year in the city's welfare-to-work program, training people to clean government buildings. A few months ago she joined Call-a-Maid, quickly becoming a supervisor because of her management skills and zest for all things spic-and-span.
Her enthusiasm seemed catching. "I don't mind cleaning at home, so I really don't mind doing it for pay," said Connie Melvin, a former nursing aide. She said she had recently decided that cleaning houses was "a whole lot better than cleaning and dressing old folks."
"Anyway," Ms. Bell said, "there's no room for moaners or complainers, because you won't be called back."
Getting callbacks is the key to Mr. Ireland's business, which he runs with his wife, Sarah. He began cleaning in 1993 to support his acting, earning $10 an hour through an agency. "I got more and more work," he said. "People said I was the best, which was strange since I'd never cleaned before."
Eventually, he began cleaning on his own. "I made lots of money, but I realized this wasn't why I came to the city," he said. "I tried to quit. I raised my rates hoping people would go away, but they didn't." Instead, he invited two unemployed friends to join him in the business, which he named White Glove Elite. Now Mr. Ireland spends more time doing business than cleaning. Still, he keeps two weekly clients. "But I clean while on the cordless phone, running the business the whole time," he said.
White Glove's rates are typical for a New York agency: $17 an hour with a four-hour minimum. To keep workers from taking clients for themselves, the company takes a relatively small commission of $2 to $4 per hour. "People still leave and stick us," Mr. Ireland said. "We call their clients and say, 'That person is untrustworthy.' The clients usually ask us for someone else."
Like others in the business, Mr. Ireland has met his share of characters. One old woman who lived near Columbus Circle, he said, "met us in the hall and said, 'Before you come in, it's very, very messy.' We had to squeeze through the door, there was so much trash. Like up to our waists."
The cleaners were summoned to clear paths through the garbage so that new windows could be installed. "It took three days," he said. "The trash was so old we found a Kleenex box from the 50's with a T-shirt offer for 75 cents with proof of purchase. We were going to tell the poor woman she needed help when I found a pill bottle and prescription pad. Turns out she was a psychiatrist. I think she was prescribing some rather strong stuff for herself."
Another client, a socialite, used heroin, Ms. Ireland said. "Our worker saw her doing it," Ms. Ireland said. "Then one day the woman offered her an apple turnover, only there was nothing on the plate."
Derek Cecil, who works for White Glove, said, "As an actor, you can definitely do some great character studies cleaning apartments." For example, he said, there was the couple with "serious hygiene difficulties" who expected him to do five heavy loads of laundry and clean "months of dirt and filth" in four hours. "Well, it didn't happen that way," he said. "They weren't satisfied. But then I wasn't satisfied with their expectations, either."
Mr. Cecil, 25, a graduate of the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, said he was "well aware of the irony of coming to New York to vacuum the halls." Recently, he cleaned a four-bedroom triplex for men his age. "They were sitting on the couch, skipping work, drinking beer and watching soccer," he said. "It was like some entry-level frat house. One guy was actually collecting unemployment while paying me to clean his house."
But "people are generally really cool," Mr. Cecil said. "Of course, they usually want to meet me, to establish some sort of trust that I won't walk out with half their valuables."
For Mr. Leonhart, who works for Manhattan Feather Dusters, client trust sometimes evolves into friendship. Some of his clients come to see him play guitar and mandolin at places like the Blue Note, he said.
"As a soloist, I like working alone," Mr. Leonhart said. "It's the atmosphere I'm most comfortable in. I can think about my music. And it's very physical." Though he is 60, he said, "my doctor says I have the heart of someone 29."
The owner of Manhattan Feather Dusters, Everet Goldberg, said he started the business 10 years ago using artists because they were "esthetically oriented, detail oriented and fastidious." And cleaning can be therapeutic for artists, Mr. Goldberg said. "It helps them think," he said. "And they get instant results. If you're a writer, you work a long time to see your book published. But if you clean a bathtub, you see the fruits of your labor instantly."
Though he screens each applicant, Mr. Goldberg said, he doesn't do much training. "What's important is their attitude toward work," he said. "Do they want and like to clean?"
For Mary Cavanaugh, who owns Best Home Services Ltd., an employment agency, wanting to clean is not enough. You must really, really know how. She regularly "auditions" women at her Roosevelt Island apartment, running them through good-housekeeping hints that would shame Heloise. Call it boot camp for maids. There's no sweeping under the rug here.
On a recent Friday, Ms. Cavanaugh was trying out two prospective workers. Dusting is a nightmare, she warned them. "Every picture frame, every gewgaw must be dusted. Replace each photo exactly where you found it. Some people don't want to see Great-Grandma up front. And, please, piles of papers mean something to clients. Do not just put them in one pile. At tax time, they will cry."
She doesn't pay for the five-hour training-audition. And not everyone makes the grade. Once hired, they'll be fired if caught "stealing a client, stealing from a client or not being professional," Ms. Cavanaugh said. "One woman was going through coat pockets and stealing tokens. It took people a while to get hip, but then a pattern emerged. Color her gone. Real fast."
Nancy K., a Manhattan psychotherapist who would not give her full name because some of those she employed were illegal immigrants, said she had shown the door to maybe 100 housekeepers over the last two decades. "Some lasted years, some lasted minutes," she said. "One woman did cocaine all day. My husband caught her in the act. She couldn't get the laundry done she was so high. And she had great references."
That one they got through a newspaper ad, she said. "But the next one came from a very fancy agency and with 24 years of references. She was great all day, but about 4 o'clock she'd go out and come back drunk, laid out. We fired her the third day." Then there was the woman who poured an entire soapbox in the dishwasher, filling the house with bubbles, and the masochist who got down on all fours to tie "madame's" shoelaces and refused to be paid.
But clients aren't the only ones who gripe. Mr. Bohne, the owner of the Adele Poston, Bonfield and Park Avenue domestic employment agencies, said rich people can be the toughest. "They are the most likely to argue over that extra $25 a week," he said. "The rich are extra-value conscious. They most often insist on negotiating a lower rate."
"Most complaints come from people of means who weren't born into it. And their expectations are way beyond boundaries," Mr. Bohne said. Indeed, he said, there is an unofficial blacklist of wealthy New Yorkers "who abuse or don't pay or expect the moon and the stars."
"Still, there are some wonderful nouveaux riches," he added. "They don't all treat workers like slave laborers." As for the middle class, he said: "They're regular people who respect and appreciate us and the workers. They never bargain, even if they're struggling."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Ireland, who runs White Glove Elite with her husband, wipes spots from a client's glass table; Connie Melvin, right, likes to clean at home and "for pay"; Derek Cecil, below right, finds cleaning apartments an avenue to "some great character studies." (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times and Barbara Alper for The New York Times (right and upper right)(pg. 1); For Mary Cavanaugh, above, wanting to clean is not enough. She runs a boot camp for maids seeking employment with her agency; "I couldn't wait to clean this thing," Lynette Bell, right, said of the 12-bedroom dean-ery, next to the Cathedral of St. John the Divine; Derek Cecil, below, a grad-uate of the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, knows about "the irony of coming to New York to vacuum the halls." (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Kamiel Jemmott dusts banister statue at deanery of St. John the Divine. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Chart: "ON SCREEN: Dust Collectors"
Some television shows and movies set in New York have had memorable housecleaners as characters. A sampling:

FLORENCE in "THE JEFFERSONS"
Played by Marla Gibbs
When the successful dry cleaner George Jefferson, and his wife, Louise (Wheezy) moved on up to the East Side, they engaged the dubious services of Florence, one of the sassiest -- and laziest -- maids ever to hit the small screen. But she could always be counted on for caustic comebacks to George's inane insults.
CLASSIC LINE:
Whenever the doorbell rang: "Can you get that, Mr. Jefferson?"
 
MR. FRENCH in "FAMILY AFFAIR"
Played by Sebastian Cabot and, for nine episodes, John Williams
Fastidious, stuffy and terribly British, Giles French, gentleman's gentleman to Uncle Bill, unwillingly became cook, housecleaner and dispenser of wisdom to Uncle Bill's orphaned nephew and nices, Jody, Sissy and Buffy.
CLASSIC LINE:
While cleaning up yet another mess: "You know, Jody, that the punishment for breaking lamps is temporary exile to one's bedroom."

MRS. PORTER in "I LOVE LUCY"
Played by Verna Felton
In the classic episode "Lucy Hires a Maid," Lucy pesters Ricky for household help, only to get more than she bargained for in the big and bossy Mrs. Porter, who arrives with her own list of "Do's and Dont's." Lucy is too cowarldy to dismiss Mrs. Porter, so she trashes her own apartment in the hope of scaring her into quitting. The plan backfires because Ricky has already dismissed her and Lucy is stuck cleaning up the mess.
CLASSSIC LINES:
Lucy: "What's your name?"
Mrs. Porter: "Mrs. Porter."
Lucy: "Well, what should I call you?"
Mrs. Porter: "Mrs. Porter."

ALMA in "PILLOW TALK"
Played by Thelma Ritter
This salty New York maid came with a sharp wit, jaundiced outlook and Tech-nicolor drinking problem that wouldn't remotely pass for comedy today. Her boss, Doris Day, looking devilish in Dior, enabled her with morning Bloody Marys in exchange for hard-nosed counsel on dealing with her dashing scoundrel of a suitor, played by Rock Hudson. Precious little was actually cleaned, but Alma spent hours eavesdropping on her boss's party line.
CLASSIC LINE:
"You know I never get into focus until 10 o'clock." DAVID KIRBY
 
(Source: Nick at Nite & TV Land)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "TIPS: Windows Extra"
Looking for help at home? Some tips from people in the cleaning business:
 
FINDING A CLEANER
There are four options: companies that send their own employees, agencies that send self-employed cleaners, individuals who advertise and word of mouth.
 
TRUSTING A CLEANER
Always check references. And don't expect much from assurances that employees are bonded, said Jerry Bohne, who owns three domestic employment agencies. To be bonded, cleaners simply sign an affidavit saying they've never been convicted of a felony. "It's supposed to protect you from someone stealing jewelry or putting Pledge on the Renoir," Mr. Bohne said. "But to collect, you need absolute proof, like videotape."
 
WHAT TO PAY
Companies and agencies usually charge $15 to $20 per hour per cleaner. Paying by the job typically runs from about $55 for a studio to $75 for a two-bedroom apartment.
 
HEEDING THE LAW
It's illegal to employ undocumented aliens. And if you pay someone $1,000 or more a year , you are liable for their Social Security and Medicare taxes. If you pay $500 or more a quarter, you are also required to pay state unemployment insurance taxes. If you hire a cleaning company, they take care of all that.
 
GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Give detailed instructions (but not a minute-by-minute to-do list). Discuss hours, breaks, smoking and meals. Restrain pets and children. And get out of the way. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (77%); FLEXTIME (75%); FAMILY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



423 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Mixing Up the Projects

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
A NEW law to revive the nation's troubled public housing had a simple goal when it was first proposed several years go: Allow more working poor families into projects that had become dominated -- some would say decimated -- by very poor welfare families.
The rationale, first pushed by Republicans, was that working families would be role models for their neighbors, would help stabilize projects and, by paying higher rents, would help housing authorities financially. 
 But buried in the 300-page bill that President Clinton signed last month is a provision that local officials warn could paralyze that effort: It requires cities to mix working families with poorer families in each and every project.
Cities say this provision will be self-defeating because it will mean having to persuade working families to move into the worst projects, while trying to keep working families already living in the better projects from fleeing when the poorest of the poor move in.
Inserted during last-minute Congressional negotiations by Andrew M. Cuomo, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the provision has been hailed by the Clinton Administration as a tool to reach an even more important goal than income-mixing: racial desegregation. That's because, generally, the poorest tenants tend to be black and Hispanic; among the working poor, a greater proportion are white.
Mr. Cuomo says cities will have to find ways to make it work. "They will not get a penny from this department as long as they maintain segregated housing," he said in an interview, referring to race. Calling the law "a revolutionary integration plan," he said it would keep public housing from becoming even more of what it already is: separate worlds, one for working familes, another for those on welfare.
Public housing in almost every city, he said, is characterized by far too many " 'white' buildings and 'black' buildings and 'Latino' buildings and 'welfare' buildings." Ideally, he said, every building should reflect the racial makeup of each city's public housing system.
 
'Deconcentration'
Mr. Cuomo's provision calls only for economic integration. But the Clinton Administration has portrayed it as being much more about race. In September, President Clinton urged a public housing law that would "deconcentrate poverty, mix incomes and thereby mix people of all races and ethnicities."
Both sides agree that racial imbalances remain widespread in public housing and that years of official discrimination are largely to blame. Mr. Cuomo complains that local housing officials oppose his initiative because they do not want to desegregate. But the local officials insist the law won't work.
They say there's a big difference between rooting out discrimination and trying to make people live where they don't want to live in the name of racial balance. And, they warn that at its worst, the law could turn public housing into a political battleground, as mandatory busing once did for public education.
 
Sweeteners
Over the last decade, even New York City, praised as having some of the best public housing, has seen its proportion of working tenants fall from half to less than a third, in part because of Federal rules favoring the poorest applicants.
The new law allows cities to offer sweeteners to working families -- like lower rents or moving costs -- to lure them to less desirable buildings. But many city officials say that while they favor economic integration and racial integration, too, it is unrealistic to enforce the same numerical goals in every project.
"There are places that working families are just not going to want to go," said a housing official in New York City.
Donald J. Smith, executive director of the Los Angeles Housing Authority, said, "I think given the traditional image of public housing, it's going to be difficult."
The new law says that 40 percent of newly vacant apartments must go to the poorest, those making less than 30 percent of an area's median income. (In New York, this means $15,000 for a family of four. Familes making near that amount could be working minimum-wage jobs, but those making much less tend to be on welfare.) The other 60 percent of vacancies can go to those making more -- people who almost certainly have jobs. In New York, this could mean families earning up to $40,000, in South Texas up to $25,000 and in Chicago up to $45,000.
Joseph Ventrone, the staff director for the Republican-controlled House subcommittee on housing, calls Mr. Cuomo's provision "an extraordinary example of H.U.D. micromanagement which is contrary to one of the main purposes of the bill" -- to give decision-making power to cities so they can find ways to attract working families.
Even some advocates for the poorest of the poor are wary.
"It's certainly necessary for someone to say it," said David Bryce, deputy director of the National Housing Law Center, "and it would be nice if someone could do something about it, but the reality is that it's incredibly complex. You've got to factor in what people of color want for themselves. You can say segregation is bad -- and forced segregation is certainly bad -- but you can't leap from that to say that you must desegegrate all public housing projects."
But other housing advocates, including Jeff Lubell, an analyst for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group, say the law must find some way -- if not Mr. Cuomo's way -- to address racial segregation or risk worsening the imbalance when cities bring in working families, more of whom will be white.
"If all you achieve through the new targeting rules," Mr. Lubell said, "is lower-income familes in some of the higher-income developments and other developments remaining largely very poor and minority, then is that really a good policy?"

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 15 about mixing the poor with the very poor in public housing gave an incorrect surname for the deputy director of the National Housing Law Center, who commented on racial segregation in housing projects. He is David Bryson, not Bryce.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Razing government-created slums: Robert Taylor Homes in Chicago. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); CITIES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KENNEDY, RANDY BILL CLINTON (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1998



424 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Xcacel Journal;
Voice of the Turtles Opposes a Hotel Development

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: XCACEL, Mexico

 BODY:
This pristine Caribbean beach is one of the world's most important nesting areas for sea turtles, and Mexican environmentalists view its ivory sands and emerald waters as sacred terrain, on a smaller scale but a bit the way people in the United States see Yosemite or the Grand Canyon.
For years the environmentalists have been pleading with the authorities to protect the beach, 67 miles south of Cancun, from the bulldozers and chain saws that are devouring vast stretches of palm-covered dunes and mangrove marshes as the Government sells off the coast of the state of Quintana Roo to commercial developers. 
 But in February, after months of secret negotiations, the state government announced that Xcacel (pronounced shkah-SELL) had been sold for $2.2 million to a Spanish conglomerate that plans to build a 450-room hotel. The sale has set off one of Mexico's most bitter environmental battles.
Greenpeace, the Sierra Club and other international and Mexican conservation groups are campaigning to reverse the deal. Government officials and the developers are shrugging off the protests.
"Everywhere there are extremists who say development can't move in concert with nature, but we disagree," said Jorge Polanco Zapata, who represents Quintana Roo as a Senator from Mexico's governing party and supports the Xcacel hotel project. "We think the turtles will be a tourist attraction."
The sale has become a symbol of what ecologists describe as predatory development desecrating a wonderland of squawking parrots and pre-Columbian ruins along 80 miles of coast stretching from Cancun to the Mayan site of Tulum.
Environmentalists complain that land use plans and environmental impact statements have been ignored in the construction of a new corridor of luxury hotels and "eco-tourism" resorts.
Aracely Dominguez, the founder of the region's most important conservation group and the owner of a small Cancun hotel, said highways had been gouged through coastal rain forests, mangrove swamps paved into parking lots and delicate coastal bays dredged with hydraulic draglines.
"We can't permit them to plunder Xcacel as they have all these other beaches," she said.
Xcacel has become the focus for scientists because of research showing that thousands of Atlantic green and loggerhead turtles nest there, apparently attracted to the gentle slope of its sands, so many that those species' genetic diversity is dependent on the beach. As a result, scientists and conservationists have based turtle protection and environmental education programs for the entire Yucatan Peninsula here.
For a decade, thousands of children and their families have made pilgrimages to Xcacel each year to experience the wonder of the summer nesting season, when on any evening scores of 400-pound loggerheads glide through the surf, lumber up the sloping beach and burrow into the dune to lay eggs. Turtle rangers protect the nests from the poachers who sack beaches elsewhere in Mexico.
Xcacel was a federal reserve until 1992, when control passed to Quintana Roo. Aides to Gov. Mario Villanueva secretly negotiated the sale, and federal environmental officials have ignored entreaties to intervene.
"This sale has fed cynicism about the Government's environmental policies, because an entire generation of children has learned that Xcacel is a protected area," said Julio Zurita, a Quintana Roo biologist who helped identify its importance. "Then overnight they were told it's been sold."
The announcement of the sale in February touched off an outcry from scores of international environmental groups.
"We don't think the builder of a hotel should come in and destroy the habitat of a creature that's been around for millions of years," said Edgar Wayburn, honorary president of the Sierra Club.
Governor Villanueva reacted by declaring a swath of dune 100 yards wide the length of the beach to be a "protected natural area" and prohibiting construction there. Conservationists said the move had little practical consequence, since few hotels build on the dune anyway.
The Spanish corporation that purchased Xcacel, Sol Melia, which operates hotels in 23 countries, has said it plans to build "a 450-room Paradisus Tulum All-Inclusive Beach Resort."
Evagrio Sanchez, a senior executive of Sol Melia's real estate division, said his company was awaiting an environmental study before elaborating final designs. But the hotel will be built away from the beach, with subdued illumination that will not confuse the nesting turtles, he said.
"We want sustainable development, with scrupulous protection, not just for the turtles but for all the fauna and flora," Mr. Sanchez said.
But environmentalists were alarmed when, during a meeting in May, Sol Melia executives outlined plans for a golf course at Xcacel. A seaside hotel in Costa Rica that Sol Melia has touted as an example of its commitment to build "in concert with nature" features an 18-hole golf course and a discotheque.
Construction at Xcacel has not yet begun, but Sol Melia employees who put up a barbed-wire fence around their newly purchased property chopped down 1,200 rare palm trees, said Juan Carlos Cantu, Greenpeace's Mexico director. Mr. Sanchez denied that. "We're not going to do anything that will go against nature," he said.
If most of the debate has been about ecology, Alfredo Cesar Dachary, director of Quintana Roo's Caribbean Center for Sustainable Development, has questioned the economics of the deal. Why, he asks, did the Government sell a coastal treasure like Xcacel for a price fetched by some private homes in Cancun or the nearby island of Cozumel.
"That $2.25 million price is completely laughable," Mr. Cesar said.
The Government sold several beaches in the same area last year. Atop a mangrove marsh on the beach adjoining Xcacel, a developer is currently building tracts of concrete bungalows. Builders describe the sprawling resort as "low-density" development, but from the air it looks like Levittown.
All the construction has attracted thousands of workers to Quintana Roo, and many live in coastal slums. One squatters' settlement near Playa del Carmen, 42 miles south of Cancun, has 30,000 inhabitants. When Hurricane Mitch was threatening Quintana Roo recently, there was an incident that was emblematic of developers' attitudes.
The owners at several seacoast hotel projects summarily fired 7,000 construction workers, shorting them a week's pay, and fled. The panicked laborers, many of whom live in other states, blocked the coastal highway for hours until the authorities sent buses to take them to Cancun. After sleeping in streets there for two nights, mobs of hungry workers rioted, shattering windows and overturning vending machines.
Artemio Santos Santos, president of the Coparmex, the state's most important business group, said environmental and social disputes were beginning to disrupt Quintana Roo's coastal development because the government had failed to enforce clear environmental policies.
"There need to be clear rules for investors about respecting our fauna and flora, and that's where we've fallen short," Mr. Santos said. "And that could be what's happening with this Xcacel project. They're developing an area that should be dedicated to the turtles."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Atlantic green turtle, left, made its way toward the sea from the beach at Xcacel. The state government's sale of the beach, above, to the Spanish corporation Sol Melia has been condemned by Mexican and international environmental groups. A Sol Melia executive insisted that environmental protection would be a factor in the hotel's design. (Photographs by Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Xcacel, Mexico. The beach at Xcacel was purchased by a Spanish hotel chain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: SOL MELIA (HOTEL CHAIN) XCACEL HOTEL (96%); CANCUN HOTEL (56%); SIERRA CLUB (56%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (56%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOL MELIA (HOTEL CHAIN) SIERRA CLUB (56%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (56%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: XCACEL (MEXICO); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; HOTELS AND MOTELS; TURTLES AND TORTOISES; BEACHES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BEACHES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (84%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (84%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ECOTOURISM (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); RAIN FORESTS (63%); FAMILY (62%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



425 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS WITH IRAQ: IRAQ'S STRATEGY;
Without Banned Arms, a 4th-Rate Power

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER and STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
With his latest act of brinkmanship, some analysts and officials say President Saddam Hussein of Iraq is closer to what he wants most: keeping a secret cache of biological and chemical weapons while gaining support for an end to the economic sanctions crippling his country.
President Hussein's tactics, which American officials label "cheat and retreat," have long frustrated many in the White House and State Department, and widened divisions within the United Nations Security Council over how to handle Iraq. 
 Many American officials predict that he will once again rebuff United Nations weapons inspectors in a few months, again risking an attack, to protect his secret weapons.
Why does he do it? His goals are simple -- far simpler than those facing United States officials trying to thwart his ambitions.
"Saddam Hussein has vast megalomaniacal ambitions of being the leader of the Arab world and the hegemon of the gulf, and he sees that his political survival depends on his keeping these weapons," said Jonathan B. Tucker, a leading expert on biological and chemical weapons.
"His political survival is his primary objective," Mr. Tucker said, "which is why he has accepted such a price to retain them."
The threat that he might someday unleash biological and chemical weaponry makes him a world figure. Without them, he is just another tyrant presiding over a starveling third-world country.
"Without weapons of mass destruction, Saddam is not Saddam," said Judith Kipper of the Council on Foreign Relations. "With them he's a regional and an international factor." His secret weapons are his ace in the hole as he fights to keep his status as a leader in the Arab world and to preserve his ability to fight and deter his enemies, who include the Iranians, the Saudis, the Israelis and the Americans, say American officials and international analysts.
To maintain his chemical and biological weapons -- and the ability to build more -- Mr. Hussein has sacrificed more than $120 billion in oil revenues and endured a harsh seven-year economic embargo. He has devoted his intelligence service to an endless game of cat and mouse to hide his suspected weapons caches from United Nations inspections.
Twice in the last year, when it appeared that the inspectors were getting close to the heart of his biological and chemical weapons secrets, he cut off cooperation with them, setting off another round of threats and defiance and risking a devastating attack by the United States.
Now, by agreeing to readmit the United Nations weapons inspectors, Mr. Hussein took a step that members of the Security Council have said is required before they can consider lifting economic sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.
Allowing the inspectors back in is a gamble the Iraqi leader may well feel is worth taking. He and his intelligence services have managed to keep Iraq's biological weapons programs largely hidden from them despite nearly seven years of intense, intrusive inspections.
It has been 101 days since the last full-fledged inspection. The United Nations Special Commission, known as Unscom, which conducts the inspections, may well have lost track of developments at 120 suspected chemical weapons sites and 90 sites suspected of biological weapons activities.
The previous seven years of inspections have destroyed some 38,500 chemical weapons and a secret biological weapons site, far beyond what seven weeks of bombing did in the Persian Gulf war of 1991.
But much about the Iraqi biological programs is unknown, and they remain "a black hole," in the words of Richard Butler, the chief of the special commission.
Mr. Tucker said the inspections had reduced Iraq "to a core of military resources that Saddam Hussein will never give up," and biological weapons are the heart of that arsenal. "We know they have produced tons of anthrax and botulism," Mr. Tucker said. "It's possible they retain a significant stockpile of these agents. The Iraqis seem to retain some kind of missile capability, and they were determined to retain some kind of VX capability." VX is a deadly nerve agent.
The Iraqi leader, say Government officials and private analysts, doubts that the United States and its allies have the will to remove him from power by any means necessary, as they lacked the will at the close of the gulf war in 1991.
"He survives and thrives by acting and provoking," said Chibli Mallat, a Beirut lawyer and political analyst of Iraq. "If Saddam agrees to have Unscom back and review his compliance, he'll be in a stronger position -- having held back the wave" of the threatened American attack.
He emerged from the latest crisis today in control of his secret weapons sites, his soldiers, his spies, his palaces and his secret police -- the pillars of his power, which were in the cross hairs of the cruise missiles almost launched by the United States. He may now be confident that he can weather any political storm, protect his secret weapons and his personal power and emerge unscathed, just as he did during and after the gulf war.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two Iraqi dancers at an event in Baghdad chatted yesterday under a portrait of President Saddam Hussein, who has again survived threats. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; ERLANGER, STEVEN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



426 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asian Markets Calmer, but Peril Remains

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Stock markets are up, currencies are stable, and bankers no longer live in dread of panicky runs on their branches. Even CNBC Asia, the cable news channel that offers minute-by-minute coverage of the region's malaise, has stopped using its pulse-quickening logo, "Asia in Crisis."
The Asian crisis has not passed. But 16 months after the devaluation of the Thai baht sent currencies tumbling, capital fleeing, and governments toppling throughout the region, a semblance of calm has returned. From Thailand to Korea, the crisis feels more like a chronic condition.
As representatives of the United States and 20 other countries gather here this week for the annual meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, economists and analysts warn, though, that Asia's surface stability presents its own set of problems.
The United States is pressing Asian countries to undertake wholesale and painful economic reforms. But without the threat of a collapsing currency or dwindling foreign reserves, their governments may lose their resolve. Already, experts say, efforts to overhaul banks and corporations are flagging in Korea, Malaysia, and Indonesia.
"It would be very dangerous to assume that the crisis is over," said Brian Lippey, the managing director of Tokai Asia Ltd., an investment firm in Hong Kong. "There is a big risk of complacency and a return to protectionism. We have seen how quickly things can unravel in Asia."
Indeed, over the weekend, Indonesia was struck by a fresh spasm of violence between protesting students and soldiers. And in the streets of this normally staid city, protestors howled against the ouster and imprisonment of Anwar Ibrahim, Malaysia's former Deputy Prime Minister.
Moreover, the rebound in Asian sentiment masks a continuing deterioration in the underlying economies. Analysts estimate that Indonesia's economy will contract by more than 15 percent this year and another 5 percent next year. Malaysia's is expected to shrink about 5 percent, both this year and next. And Singapore, one of Asia's most resilient performers, announced last week that its economy had slipped into negative territory for the first time since 1986.
"It's vastly premature to expect a turnaround in the real economies," said C. Fred Bergsten, the director of the Institute for International Economics, a research organization in Washington. "The countries in Southeast Asia are in what I would call a depression. It looks to me like they're continuing to go downhill."
Then why have stock markets in Jakarta, Hong Kong, and Tokyo risen anywhere from 10 percent to 60 percent since early October? Two outside factors are responsible: the Federal Reserve Bank's decision to lower interest rates and the strengthening of the Japanese yen relative to the dollar.
The Fed's rate cuts have emboldened Asian banks to cut their rates as well, which has rekindled confidence in places where commercial activity had virtually ground to a halt. The stronger yen has taken the pressure off other Asian currencies, notably China's yuan.
"We returned to a point where, instead of raw panic, people are doing calculations again," said William H. Overholt, director of Asia strategy at the Japanese financial services firm Nomura International in Hong Kong. "There's a return to normalcy, except in Indonesia and Malaysia, where there are some special circumstances."
But while lower interest rates and stable currencies can make for a more tranquil atmosphere, "cuts in interest rates don't make a difference in an economy where the banks are insolvent," said Simon L. Ogus, head of Asian economics at the investment bank Warburg Dillon Read in Hong Kong.
There are big variations between countries, of course. Experts said Thailand and South Korea were on the road to recovery, having already borne much of the pain of the currency collapse. But healthier economies like Hong Kong and Singapore, which did not suffer steep currency devaluations, could take longer to adjust.
Indonesia remains in a treacherous downward spiral. Although its currency, the rupiah, has risen from 12,000 rupiah to the dollar to just under 8,000 since last summer, inflation is running at an annual rate of 80 percent and one-fifth of its 92 million workers are unemployed.
Analysts said Indonesia's economic reforms remained hostage to its political convulsions.
"We're in a very dire situation on the political front," said Mari Pangetsu, the executive director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research group in Jakarta. "For almost every single economic reform we've tried to do, the process gets politicized."
Even in the more stable countries, the restructuring of banks and debt-burdened companies has been stop and go. In Thailand, for example, the Government has moved aggressively to auction off bad loans. But experts there said the Government has been slow to introduce a promised new bankruptcy code.
"There are intense vested interests fighting against it," said James Stent, a senior executive vice president of Bank of Asia, Thailand's 11th-largest bank.
Similarly, in South Korea, the Government has been unable to prod its vast conglomerates to close their unprofitable businesses.
Malaysia has devised its own solution to the crisis by imposing strict controls on its currency and stock markets. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad says he is shielding his economy from the vagaries of international capital flows. But critics say Malaysia is following a potentially ruinous policy that could cut it off from the global economy and snuff out its much-needed economic reforms.
An even bigger concern among the leaders who will gather at the regional summit meeting is that other countries may follow the example. Although officials in Thailand and Indonesia have said they would not impose capital controls, experts said the specter of several more years of recession could test their resolve.
That is why most experts here were relieved that the Federal Reserve cut interest rates, even if they doubt the long-term effect. The Fed's action, they said, signaled that the United States finally recognized the depth of Asia's problems.
Still, it is not clear they can offer much of a remedy. The Treasury Department is drafting a proposal to be presented at the meeting to restructure the huge debts hobbling Asian corporations. But the United States wants Japan, whose banks are the biggest lenders in Asia, to bear much of the cost.
Mr. Bergsten, an economist who heads an informal group of advisers to APEC, the regional economic group, said Asian countries should adopt a policy of aggressive fiscal stimulation. If the governments acted in concert, he said, they could revive domestic demand, which would reduce their export dependence on the United States and Europe.
Other observers said, though, that itis futile to divorce the future of Asia from the economic vitality of the West. Many analysts say the recovery of Asia hinges on whether foreign investors pour money back into the region. "If conditions in the United States and Europe remain normal, Asia will probably be O.K.," said Marc Faber, an investment adviser in Hong Kong. "But if the U.S. economy weakens, all bets are off."
To some extent, then, Asia's recovery depends as much on averting a new crisis abroad as confronting the one at home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION TOKAI ASIA LTD (68%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; KUALA LUMPUR (MALAYSIA); ASIA (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



427 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2208 words

HEADLINE: Stokely Carmichael, Rights Leader Who Coined 'Black Power,' Dies at 57

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Kwame Ture, the flamboyant civil rights leader known to most Americans as Stokely Carmichael, died yesterday in Conakry, Guinea. He was 57 and is best remembered for his use of the phrase "black power," which in the mid-1960's ignited a white backlash and alarmed an older generation of civil rights leaders, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
The cause was prostate cancer, for which Mr. Ture had been treated at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York in the last two years. He once said his cancer "was given to me by forces of American imperialism and others who conspired with them." 
 Mr. Ture, who changed his name in 1978 to honor Kwame Nkrumah and Ahmed Sekou Toure, two African socialist leaders who had befriended him, spent most of the last 30 years in Guinea, calling himself a revolutionary and advocating a Pan-African ideology that evoked few resonances in the United States, or, for that matter, Africa.
Mr. Ture's advocacy of Pan-Africanism was the last phase in a political evolution that passed from indifference to the civil rights movement when he was a high school student to emergence as an effective nonviolent volunteer risking his life against segregation to honorary prime minister of the Black Panther Party.
Though his active participation in the struggle for civil rights lasted barely a decade, he was a charismatic figure in a turbulent time, when real violence and rhetoric escalated on both sides of the color line.
Stokely Carmichael was inspired to participate in the civil rights movement by the bravery of those blacks and whites who protested segregated service with sit-ins at lunch counters in the South.
"When I first heard about the Negroes sitting in at lunch counters down South," he told Gordon Parks in Life magazine in 1967, "I thought they were just a bunch of publicity hounds. But one night when I saw those young kids on TV, getting back up on the lunch counter stools after being knocked off them, sugar in their eyes, ketchup in their hair -- well, something happened to me. Suddenly I was burning."
Rejecting scholarships from several white universities, he entered Howard University in Washington in 1960. By the end of his freshman year, he had joined the Freedom Rides of the Congress of Racial Equality, hazardous bus trips of blacks and whites that challenged segregated interstate travel in the South. The Freedom Riders often met with violence, and at their destinations Mr. Carmichael and the others were arrested and jailed, the first incarcerations he experienced. One early arrest brought him a particularly harsh 49-day sentence in Parchman Penitentiary in Mississippi.
Graduating with a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Howard in 1964, he joined the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. It was "Freedom Summer" in the year that SNCC (popularly pronounced snick) was sending hundreds of black and white volunteers to the South to teach, set up clinics and register disenfranchised black Southerners.
Tall, slim, handsome and a dynamic speaker, Mr. Carmichael soon emerged as a leader, cocky enough to be described as looking like he was strutting when standing still. Mr. Parks wrote that watching him made him believe that the young man could "stroll through Dixie in broad daylight using the Confederate flag for a handkerchief."
 
A Radicalism Born Of Raw Experience
As a SNCC field organizer in Lowndes County in Alabama, where blacks were in the majority but politically powerless, he helped raise the number of registered black voters to 2,600 from a mere 70, or 300 more than the number of registered whites.
Displeased by the response of the established parties to the success of the registration drive, he organized the all-black Lowndes County Freedom Organization, which, to fulfill a state requirement that all parties have a logo, took a black panther as its symbol. The panther was later adopted by the Black Panther Party.
The young Mr. Carmichael was radicalized by his experiences working in the segregated South, where peaceful protesters were beaten, brutalized and sometimes killed for seeking the ordinary rights of citizens. He once recalled watching from his hotel room in a little Alabama town while nonviolent black demonstrators were beaten and shocked with cattle prods by the police. Horrified, he said that he screamed and could not stop.
Mr. Carmichael was arrested so often as a nonviolent volunteer that he lost count after 32. His growing impatience with the tactics of passive resistance was gaining support, and in 1966 he was chosen as chairman of SNCC, replacing John Lewis, a hardworking integrationist who is now a Congressman from Georgia.
Barely a month after his selection, Mr. Carmichael, then just 25, raised the call for black power, thereby signaling a crossroads in the civil rights struggle. Increasingly uncomfortable with Dr. King's resolute nonviolence, he sensed a shift among some younger blacks in the direction of black separatism. Many were listening sympathetically to the urgings of Malcolm X, who had been assassinated a year and a half earlier, that the struggle should be carried out by any means necessary.
It was June 16, 1966, and Mr. Carmichael, a spellbinding orator, was addressing a crowd of 3,000 in a park in Greenwood, Miss. James Meredith, who had integrated the University of Mississippi, was wounded on his solitary "Walk Against Fear" from Memphis to Jackson, and volunteers were marching in his place. When they set up camp in Greenwood, Mr. Carmichael was arrested and his frustration was obvious.
"This is the 27th time," he said in disgust after his release. "We been saying 'Freedom' for six years," he continued, referring to the chant that movement protesters used as they stood up to racist politicians and hostile policemen pointing water hoses and unleashing snarling dogs. "What we are going to start saying now is 'Black Power!' "
The crowd quickly took up the phrase. "Black Power!" it repeated in a cry that would soon be echoed in communities from Oakland to Newark. But if Mr. Carmichael's call for black power galvanized many young blacks, it troubled others, who thought it sounded anti-white, provocative and violent. And it struck fear into many whites.
Adverse reaction was powerful and immediate. After the integrationist, nonviolent speeches and sermons of Dr. King and others, few Americans, white or black, were prepared for the uncompromising demands of black militants who rallied to Mr. Carmichael's cry.
Newspapers deplored the term and editorials warned of "reverse racism." Contributions to civil rights groups from sympathetic whites fell. Voting results that November in many state and local elections reflected a white backlash.
 
A Widening Split With Black Leaders
Many black leaders of the civil rights movement, though eager to avoid a split, were clearly upset by the use of the phrase and the separatism it seemed to advocate.
Dr. King called it "an unfortunate choice of words." Roy Wilkins of the N.A.A.C.P. scorned it as an example of "the raging of race against race." Perhaps the most indignant response came from Whitney Young Jr., the director of the National Urban League, who said: "Anyone can arouse the poor, the despairing, the helpless. That's no trick. Sure they'll shout 'black power,' but why doesn't the mass media find out how many of those people will follow those leaders to a separate state or back to Africa?"
In the book "Black Power," which Mr. Carmichael wrote in 1967 with Charles Hamilton, now a professor of political science at Columbia University, the authors tried to explain the term. "It is a call for black people in this country to unite," they wrote, "to recognize their heritage, to build a sense of community. It is a call for black people to define their own goals, to lead their own organizations."
But even as the book, which is still in print, appeared, Mr. Carmichael's speeches became more provocative. "When you talk of black power, you talk of building a movement that will smash everything Western civilization has created," he told black audiences. And as civil unrest flared in Detroit and Newark, Mr. Carmichael's call became associated, as Mr. Hamilton put it, "with riots and guns and 'burn, baby, burn.' "
Instead of young people singing "We Shall Overcome," new images of militant black men and women were being shown on television -- black berets, raised fists, men with guns. And along with goals of social justice and integration came ideas of black separatism and power harking back to the black nationalism that had been preached in the 1920's by Marcus Garvey.
In 1966 and 1967 Mr. Carmichael lectured at campuses around the United States and traveled abroad to several countries, including North Vietnam, China and Cuba. He made perhaps his most provocative statement in Havana. "We are preparing groups of urban guerrillas for our defense in the cities," he said. "It is going to be a fight to the death."
In 1967 a declining SNCC severed all ties with him. Soon after, he became honorary prime minister of the Black Panthers, the ultra-militant urban organization begun by Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale. But he soon found himself embroiled with Panther leaders for opposing their decision to seek support among whites. He moved to Guinea, in West Africa, in 1969, saying, "America does not belong to the blacks," and calling on all black Americans to follow his example.
 
Even Black Panthers Not Radical Enough
In July 1969, three months after he moved to Africa, he made public a letter announcing his resignation from the Black Panther Party because of what he called "its dogmatic party line favoring alliances with white radicals."
The letter signaled Mr. Carmichael's break from the main currents of American life. He made his home in Conakry as the guest of Sekou Toure, the Marxist head of a one-party state. His next-door neighbor was Kwame Nkrumah, the Pan-Africanist first leader of independent Ghana, who after being deposed in a coup in 1966 was offered sanctuary in Guinea.
In 1968, now calling himself Kwame Ture, he married Miriam Makeba, the South African singer. They lived in a seaside villa where he sometimes greeted visitors wearing the green uniform of a Guinean soldier, a pistol at his side. After they divorced, he married Marlyatou Barry, a Guinean doctor who now lives in Arlington, Va., and from whom he was also divorced. He is survived by his mother, three sisters and two sons, according to a statement by the All African Peoples Revolutionary Party.
He became a globe-trotting exponent of the All African Peoples Revolutionary Party, returning to American campuses to recruit. He maintained that continued progress for black Americans could be made only through "mass political organization on a Pan-African scale."
"Black power," he said, "can only be realized when there exists a unified socialist Africa." He sounded the idea that blacks must work with blacks for their cultural, economic and political liberation.
As early as 1971, he was already on the margins. Julius Lester, who had helped Mr. Carmichael draft the radical speech in Havana, compared the speeches of Malcolm X with the speeches and essays that Mr. Carmichael collected in a book called "Stokely Speaks." Mr. Lester wrote in The New York Times Book Review: "Though dead, Malcolm is terrifyingly alive in his speeches; Carmichael is alive but his speeches are depressingly dead."
Stokely Carmichael was born on June 29, 1941, in Port-of-Spain, Trindidad, and he spent his first 11 years there. His father, Adophus, a carpenter and taxi driver, and his mother, Mabel, a stewardess for a steamship line, had emigrated to the United States when he was a toddler, leaving him in the care of his grandmother.
In 1952 he joined his parents in Harlem. By the time he was in the seventh grade, his family had moved to Morris Park, an old Jewish and Italian neighborhood in the East Bronx. He said in the 1967 Life interview that he was the only black member of the Morris Park Dukes, a gang, and described himself as "a wild, aggressive boy, boozing it up and getting a kick out of petty theft."
But after he passed the admissions test for the elite Bronx High School of Science, he broke with the Dukes. "They were all reading the funnies while I was trying to dig Darwin and Marx," he told Gordon Parks.
He was popular in high school, he said, and remembered dating white classmates and visiting Park Avenue apartments. "Now that I realize how phony they all were, how I hate myself for it." he said in the 1967 interview. "Being liberal was an intellectual game with these cats. They were still white, and I was black."
Mr. Ture never publicly criticized President Toure, who was known to jail and torture his opponents. The Guinean leader died in 1984, and two years later Mr. Ture's alignment with him led to his arrest by the military government that had taken over. He spent three days in jail, accused of trying to overthrow the government.
Mr. Ture continued to live in Guinea. To the end he answered his telephone with the greeting he had used for more than 20 years, "Ready for the revolution!"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stokely Carmichael at a news conference when he was SNCC chairman. (The New York Times, 1966); Kwame Ture in 1996. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GUINEA (94%); AFRICA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); STUDENT NONVIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDENT NONVIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GUINEA (94%); AFRICA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (83%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); PROSTATE CANCER (71%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); ARRESTS (62%); SENTENCING (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: TURE, KWAME (STOKELY CARMICHAEL); KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



428 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Albright Visits With Wife Of Dissident In Malaysia

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met the wife of a jailed Malaysian political leader here today in a gesture of solidarity that angered her hosts and suggested that politics could swamp economics at a meeting of Asian and Pacific Rim countries.
Mrs. Albright talked briefly with Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, the wife of Anwar Ibrahim, the former Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, who was imprisoned in September and is on trial for corruption and sex-related charges. 
 Shortly afterward, she had a caustic public exchange with Malaysia's Minister of Trade, Rafidah Aziz, about Mr. Anwar's treatment. "The reporting on the trial of Anwar Ibrahim has given us great concern," Mrs. Albright said at a news conference with other ministers.
Ms. Rafidah responded that Mr. Anwar would get a fair trial, adding, "Maybe when I go to the States, I would like to meet Ken Starr," referring to the independent prosecutor who is investigating President Clinton.
"He's not in jail," Mrs. Albright replied brusquely, to the surprise of hundreds of reporters who had turned up to hear an announcement of a new trade agreement involving the 21 countries at the meeting.
The ministers did announce a trade deal, though it fell far short of the sweeping agreement to lower tariffs that many countries were seeking. Stymied by opposition from Japan, the countries agreed to reconsider the proposals, which would lower tariffs in nine major industries, at the World Trade Organization. That basically puts off the drive for free trade in Asia until 1999.
Today's compromise was a fitting conclusion to a chaotic opening weekend at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, which ends Wednesday. With restive crowds outside, rancorous exchanges inside and a conspicuously absent guest from the United States, the gathering seemed anything but cooperative.
President Clinton said on Saturday that he would skip the meeting to monitor the Iraq crisis from Washington. While Mrs. Albright participated in the talks today, she cut short her visit to return to Washington on Monday.
Malaysia's political turmoil flared up on the streets, too, as 200 demonstrators marched at the base of the Petronas Towers, the twin skyscrapers that are the world's tallest buildings. The crowd chanted slogans against Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad until riot police dispersed them with tear gas and a water cannon.
On Saturday, Dr. Mahathir criticized foreign visitors for using the APEC meeting as an excuse to meddle in Malaysia's internal affairs. His comments came after Canada's foreign minister, Lloyd Axworthy, met with Mr. Anwar's wife.
Officials were more diplomatic in their assessment of the trade agreement. But it was clear that many were deflated by the outcome. "I wouldn't say the talks collapsed, but we're disappointed," said Sergio Marchi, Canada's Minister for International Trade.
Japan steadfastly refused to lower tariffs in its fishing and forestry industries. Japan's Trade and Industry Minister, Kaoru Yosano, said Japan had not been able to mobilize domestic support for the cuts in fishing and forestry tariffs. But he held open the chance of doing so.
"Don't confuse what is happening at APEC with what will happen at the W.T.O.," Mr. Yosano told reporters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright expressed her support yesterday in Kuala Lumpur to Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, the wife of the former Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, who was jailed in September. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); TRENDS (66%); RIOTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); WAN AZIZAH; ANWAR IBRAHIM BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



429 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: OUTPOST IN SPACE;
Space Station, Long a Dream, To Soar at Last

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
After years of debate, hundreds of studies, thousands of pages of blueprints and billions of dollars, the United States and 15 other nations are ready to start building the largest, most complex structure ever assembled in space, the international space station.
Planners say the five-year construction project, 220 miles above the Earth, will culminate in a sprawling research complex that answers major questions about the future of humans in space, while producing data and products with more immediate applications down on the planet. 
 Despite severe money problems at its space agency, Russia is to place the first piece of a giant puzzle on the board this week by launching a 20-ton pressurized module that will serve as the core of the orbital outpost by providing initial propulsion and power. This unit, named Zarya after the Russian word for sunrise, is to lift off on Friday atop a Proton rocket launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.
The United States is to follow on Dec. 3 when the shuttle Endeavour takes off with a hub unit, named Unity. This node attaches to the Russian part and serves as a main connector for future pieces of the station, designed to eventually house up to seven astronauts at a time from countries around the world. Three astronauts are expected to occupy the station beginning early in 2000, well before it is fully completed.
The space station is one of the largest peacetime international engineering projects in history, and one of the costliest, with a construction price of at least $40 billion, more than half of which will be paid by the United States. Various estimates suggest that participating nations together will spend a similar amount to operate it during its lifetime, a minimum of 10 years.
It will be a risky and difficult project as well, experts said, noting that the odds of a major accident in the station's construction or operation are high.
 
In Darkness of Space, Assembly Required
Construction will require at least 43 space flights, including 34 by space shuttles and the rest by Russian rockets, to haul almost 900,000 pounds of supplies.
These materials, including pressurized modules, connecting nodes, expandable metal trusses for holding solar panels and heat radiators, and miles of electrical cables, are to be assembled by American and Russian astronauts making 144 spacewalks. The spacewalks, in which two-member teams will have to connect hundreds of station components and cables, are expected to total at least 1,800 hours, double the time that American astronauts have spent outside their ships since the beginning of piloted space flight almost four decades ago.
When all of the pieces finally come together in 2004, as scheduled, they are to form a complex that covers an area equal to two football fields when the solar power arrays are unfurled. Almost a dozen interlocking modules, housing research laboratories, living quarters and support equipment, are planned to provide 46,000 cubic feet of pressurized space, equal to the interior volume of two 747 jet planes.
"The space station is being built to see how people can live and work safely and productively in space for long periods," said Daniel S. Goldin, administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. "It will be a world-class laboratory for science that could lead to discoveries and technical advances that affect all our lives."
But construction is to begin while several uncertainties remain about costs and schedules. Assembly already has been delayed more than a year because the third major component, a Russian-built unit called the service module, has not been completed because the Russian Space Agency is out of money. This unit is to provide living quarters and laboratory space in the early stages of station construction.
Noting that the collapse of the Russian economy is a threat to the space station, NASA last month announced a bailout plan to funnel money to the Russians to complete the service module and have it ready for launching in July 1999. The American agency said it would initially pay Russia $60 million for equipment and services related to the station project. And NASA told Congress that the United States would have to channel $600 million more to Russia over the next four years to help that nation meet its space station obligations.
Even with this aid, questions remain whether Russia will eventually find the money to complete what it has promised for the station, including two science laboratories, a power station and cargo spacecraft to take up supplies.
President Clinton, at the Kennedy Space Center on Oct. 29 for the space shuttle flight of Senator John Glenn, said he favored covering Russia's financial shortfalls for the station because of the importance of the international project. "I think we're doing the right thing with this space station, and we need to stay with it," Mr. Clinton said in a CNN interview.
The Clinton Administration has had a vested interest in the space station since 1993, when it restructured the program, on the verge of cancellation by Congress, and brought in the Russians as a full partner in a foreign policy initiative after the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Dr. John Logsdon, director of George Washington University's Space Policy Institute, said that including Russia in the program saved it, by giving the project an added political purpose and by offering the hope that the Russians would move the program along. "There was a dramatic shift in the debate when Russia was brought in," Dr. Logsdon said. "Political support for a space station is now very solid."
Much of the flight hardware for the station has either been built or is nearing completion since the new start five years ago, he said, and the project has a good chance of being completed once construction in space begins, even if Russia ends up with a lesser role. "I don't think there is much of a possibility of canceling the program now," Dr. Logsdon said.
 
Station a U.S. Interest Since Kennedy's Days
The new outpost will not be the first space station, but it will be the biggest and most versatile and well-equipped. In the early days of the space race, President John F. Kennedy considered having the United States try to build the first space station to assert American dominance. But when advised that the Soviets' more powerful rockets would allow them to win that race, Mr. Kennedy set the more difficult goal of landing men on the Moon.
After the Moon landings, NASA officials believed that the next step should include a large space station supplied by a reusable shuttle. But public support for the space program declined markedly after the Moon landing, and the Nixon Administration cut the agency's budget, making it clear it would not support two major new programs.
NASA chose to pursue the space shuttle. Only after the shuttle began flying did NASA resurrect the idea of a space station.
The Soviets launched the first space station, Salyut 1, in 1971. They followed it with a series of larger and more sophisticated Salyuts, culminating in the launching of Mir in 1986. Mir, the first permanent station, grew to a complex of seven modules weighing more than 100 tons.
The first United States space station was Skylab, made from the third stage of a Saturn rocket and flown into orbit in 1973. The 84-ton station was in use for only nine months, during which crews visited for 28, 56 and 84 days.
President Ronald Reagan first proposed building an international station, led by the United States, in 1984 and within two years got the European Space Agency and other partners to agree to contribute hardware to the project. NASA first estimated that the United States could build its part of the station for $8.5 billion, but the project almost immediately bogged down.
"No one agreed on what kind of a space station to build, and it was constantly being redesigned," said Howard C. McCurdy, a professor of public affairs at American University who studied the program. "All we could agree on was that we wanted one."
As work on the station dragged on, with several NASA centers proposing different designs, estimated costs rose, prompting Congress to get involved in managing the program to hold down expenses, Mr. McCurdy said. "By 1993, we had spent $11 billion on the space station and all we had to show for it was piles of blueprints and no major flight hardware," he said.
The Clinton Administration then asked NASA to redesign and streamline the station again, this time including Russian components, and capped United States spending at $17.4 billion through assembly. But Mr. Goldin, the NASA chief, said early this year that American costs would likely be about $21.3 billion, requiring additional financing. And an independent study commissioned by the agency suggested in April that United States costs could climb as high as $24.7 billion.
 
16 Countries Share A Significant Burden
Joining the United States in the project are Russia, Japan, Canada, Brazil and 11 nations of the European Space Agency: Italy, Germany, France, Britain, Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
The original Russian contribution to the program was expected to be worth $8 billion to $10 billion before the current economic crisis. The other partners' shares amount to about $3.1 billion from Japan, $850 million from Canada, and $3.8 billion from the European group, with a separate $550 million from Italy.
Experts warn that the cost of the space station is likely to be borne in more than mere dollars. "Like any construction project, this is going to be risky business," said John E. Pike, director of space policy for the Federation of American Scientists.
"You have to assume that you are going to lose at least one major component of the station, either because of a rocket blowing up or an accident in orbit," Mr. Pike said. "And it is likely that someone will be killed, which is not uncommon on construction sites even when they are not doing spacewalks, which are dangerous all by themselves."
With so many rocket launches required for the station, the odds of a major accident involving a shuttle or Russian rocket are high, according to Mr. Pike and others. A statistical analysis done last year by the British journal New Scientist concluded that there was a 73.6 percent chance of at least one major failure in the assembly sequence.
"It would be a miracle if there wasn't a major failure," Mr. Pike said. "And depending on any loss of life, or what part of the station is lost during an accident, it could severely cripple the project or cause major construction delays."
The new space station, which will be five times larger than Mir if completed as planned, is to be occupied and producing research data long before its scheduled completion date. Plans call for Russia to launch a Soyuz spacecraft in January 2000, carrying Capt. Bill Shepherd of the United States Navy, the station's first commander, and the Russian astronauts Yuri Gidzenko and Sergei Krikalev. Their arrival will mark the beginning of research and a permanent human presence on the station.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Engineers in Kazakhstan making final checks on the first component of the international space station, a propulsion module called Zarya. It is to lift off on Friday. (Itar-Tass)(pg. A13)
 
Charts: "A Great Jigsaw Puzzle in the Sky"
Some 15 years after President Ronald Reagan first proposed building an orbiting outpost in space, the first component of the international space station, a propulsion and power unit called Zarya, is scheduled to be launched on Friday aboard a Russian rocket. Two weeks later, a large hub unit called Unity will be carried aloft on the space shuttle Endeavour.
 The launchings are the opening acts of a prolonged space drama that will take five years, the efforts of thousands of people in 16 countries and an estimated $40 billion to complete.
 The finished structure will consist of a series of interconnected modules with 46,000 cubic feet of pressurized space, including living quarters and laboratories. With its solar panels fully extended, the station will cover an area the size of two football fields.
 The living quarters are intended for up to seven astronauts at a time. The first three astronauts, an American and two Russians, are scheduled to occupy the station in January 2000 to further the station's construction.
 
PARTNERS IN FLIGHT
Like a modern-day Babel, the international space station will be the result of cooperation between 16 countries with varying languages, technical capabilities, economic strengths and political philosophies. Diagram shows the components of the space station and their country of origin. The following are participants: United States, Russia, Japan, Europe, Canada, Italy, and Brazil. (European contributors are Belgium, Britain, Denmark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.)
 
FIRST UP
The first stage of the international space station will be the launching of Zarya on Friday and Unity on Dec. 3. Here is a closer look at the modules and their purpose:
 
Unity (Node 1)
Built by Boeing
Acts as a juncture point for six critical station components: theZ1 truss, United States Laboratory, the Airlock, Cupola, United States Habitation Module and the Mini Pressurized Logistics Module.
 
Zarya (Functional Cargo Block)
Built by Khrunichev (Moscow) as subcontractor for Boeing,
Financed by NASA
Provides propulsion control, power and fuel storage throughout the early stages of assembly. Acts as a docking port for the Service Module.
 
THE ASSEMBLY
While countless hours have been spent designing the myriad pieces of the station, many of them will be put together for the first time in space. To do so will require an estimated 1,800 hours of work outside the craft on the part of astronauts equipped with the latest specially designed tools.
Even relatively mundane tools must be re-engineered to help astronauts work efficiently in space. Something as simple as a wrench (A) must be able to be gripped by a suited astronaut, while hammers (B) have fluid cores to dampen vibration. A computerized power tool (C), used for fastening, allows for programming of torque and number of turns.
 
MEASURING UP
By far the largest man-made object ever placed in Earth's orbit, the international space station will cover the area of two football fields and have living quarters roughly equal to the interior of a Boeing 747.
 
Mir -- 107 feet
Skylab -- 108 feet
Space Shuttle -- 122 feet
International Space Station -- 359 feet
 
Chart illustrates the space station's design.
 
"From Rhetoric to Reality'
Initially conceived as yet another weapon in the cold war against the Soviet Union, the international space station reects the changes in the world's political and economic climate. Here is a look back at the events leading up to this week's launching and forward to the station's completion early in the 21st century.
 
MARCH 8, 1983
President Reagan publicly refers to the Soviet Union as an evil empire.
 
MARCH 23, 1983
Regan announces plans for Star Wars defense system.
 
JAN. 26, 1984
Reagan proposes plans for space station Freedom.
 
JAN. 28, 1986
Shuttle Challenger explodes after takeoff.
 
FEB. 20, 1986
Russians launch space station Mir.
 
SEPT. 29, 1988
Shuttle ights resume with Discovery.
 
NOV. 1989
Dismantling of Berlin Wall.
 
DEC. 1991
Collapse of the USSR.
 
1993
President Clinton calls for a redesigned version of the station to be named Alpha.
 
FEB. 2-11, 1994
First Russian astronauties aboard Discovery.
 
JUNE-JULY, 1995
First shuttle docks with Mir.
 
JUNE 25, 1997
Unmanned supply ship collides withMir, badly damaging the station.
 
JUNE 1998
Ninth and final United States mission to Mir.
 
Nov. 20, 1998
First space station component, Zarya, to be launched aboard Russian Proton rocket.
 
JAN. 2000
Capt. Bill Shepherd and crew to arrive aboard the station.
 
JAN. 2000 - JAN. 2004
Multiple United States shuttle missions and Russian Soyuz and Proton rockets to ferry equipment to the station.
 
JAN. 2000 - JAN. 2004
Multiple United States shuttle missions and Russian Soyuz and Proton rockets to ferry equipment to the station.
 
(Sources: NASA; Facts on File; The Space Almanac)(Frank O'Connell and Jim McManus/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); DENMARK (59%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: RUSSIAN SPACE AGENCY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSIAN SPACE AGENCY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); DENMARK (59%); EARTH (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS; INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES; ENDEAVOUR (SPACE SHUTTLE) SPACE STATIONS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (87%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E RONALD REAGAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



430 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2354 words

HEADLINE: Boroughs Battle Over Trash As Last Landfill Nears Close

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
A sculptor who has lived in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for 20 years says he is thinking of moving to get away from the garbage. A retired salesman in Hunts Point in the Bronx crinkles his nose as he describes the acrid smell of the endless garbage trucks. On the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, a man rails against a plan to bring immense garbage barges to a newly created shipping hub for trash.
"What they're trying to bring in here is death, the barges of death," said the man, Jay McKnight, who lives in public housing and is a member of the Red Hook Lions Club. 
 These scarred old waterfront areas are ground zero in the scramble to find a way to deal with the flow of residential trash that, by law, must stop going to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island by Dec. 31, 2001.
They are home to what are called transfer stations, buildings where local commercial garbage has for a decade been unloaded from standard-sized garbage trucks, compacted and transferred to 18-wheelers for shipment out of state. Now, residential waste is starting to go to these commercial stations, and soon new, much larger stations will be added to transfer residential waste to railroad cars or oceangoing barges.
The upshot is that as Fresh Kills prepares to close, large swaths of the city will experience a much closer connection with garbage, both through the transfer stations and the fleets of trucks traveling to them.
In essence, the city is changing its entire system for handling the 3.5 million tons of waste it produces yearly, a tonnage equal to 76 Titanics. Exporting to other states, at a cost the city estimates may exceed $6 billion over the next 30 years, is the linchpin of the strategy.
But critics say that the rules on placing transfer stations are illegal, that city laws for fairly sharing odious activities are ignored and that minority neighborhoods suffer unfairly.
"Communities of color are treated as if they weren't human," Omar Torres, a Williamsburg high school senior, told the City Council at a hearing on garbage. His concerns carry growing resonance.
Last week, these issues were addressed at a Brooklyn hearing by an Environmental Protection Agency advisory panel. It may recommend an increased Federal role in insuring that waste disposal policies here and in other cities are not discriminatory.
"The starting point is where the facilities are," said Mathy Stanislaus, chairman of the National Environmental Justice Advisory Council waste transfer working group. "The facilities are predominately in communities of color."
The communities are landing punches. On Thursday, the State Department of Environmental Conservation withdrew permits for two transfer stations in Williamsburg after opponents raised objections. In previous cases, the opponents had won a temporary restraining order blocking use of the stations, as well as delays in two other big transfer stations on the Brooklyn waterfront.
Opponents hope delay will stall the city's drive to close Fresh Kills, and force a policy re-evaluation. They demand a more open process, adherence to city rules against "clustering" unpleasant public services. Even as they say with emphasis that they favor closing Fresh Kills, they seethe that poorer, minority areas dominated by Democrats appear to be sacrificial lambs for satisfying white Republican Staten Islanders.
The debate is, in a sense, a question of procedure. City Hall has so far sketched a rigid approach that would do two things: Most fundamentally, the city would assign huge contracts to large garbage companies to ship the city's trash by rail or barge to Pennsylvania, Virginia and other states. Second, it would truck trash out in the meantime, thereby reducing the flow to Fresh Kills to nothing in three years.
Waterfront communities zoned for industrial uses are particularly affected. In the first stage of the plan, commercial transfer stations in these zones would be expanded to handle residential waste, bringing in many more trucks. In the next stage, enormous new transfer stations would be built in places like Red Hook and the South Bronx to accept the same barges that now go to Fresh Kills. The trash would then be loaded into containers for rail or ocean shipment.
To Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, this is only fair. "We have not had a great deal of sympathy over the years from the other boroughs," he said. "All they know is that their garbage goes someplace else."
The Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, answers that his borough had several dumps and city incinerators as late as the 1980's, and still handles a disproportionately large share of the city's garbage. He contends that it is wrong to solve Staten Island's problems by creating new ones for other boroughs.
As tension builds between the boroughs, there are hints that City Hall's approach may be changing. Joseph J. Lhota, Deputy Mayor for Operations, said the city hoped to announce broad changes in its export proposals within a month.
Among other things, Mr. Lhota said in an interview that the city hoped to make far more use of its existing city-owned waterfront stations for transferring garbage to barges -- something critics have strongly urged. He said the city would even consider placing garbage in huge shipping containers so it does not have to be passed through a new transfer station in a place that doesn't want one, like Red Hook. In the past, it has rejected such schemes as impractical.
"The opponents are frustrated because they can't see it yet," he said of the policy revision. "I'm frustrated because we can't release it yet."
 
Out of the Ocean And Incinerators
It was a long road to the current garbage policy.
Ocean dumping was the primary means of disposal until 1935, when a coalition of New Jersey coastal cities forced New York to end the practice. (Ocean dumping of sewage sludge was banned in 1992.) Then landfills and incinerators were used for garbage. Incinerators in apartment buildings began to be phased out in the 1960's and were outlawed in the 1980's. Several large municipal incinerators were used into the 1990's.
Gradually, landfills in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens closed. Fresh Kills, which opened in 1948 as a temporary dump, became the only disposal site after incinerators passed from the scene. The last incinerator proposed, in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, was formally killed in the same 1996 law that ordered Fresh Kills's closing.
In 1957, the city's burden had seemed to ease when it stopped collecting commercial waste. A new industry emerged to handle this waste, shipping some of it out of the city. In 1988, even more commercial waste was pushed to out-of-state landfills when the city raised the price it charged commercial haulers to dump at Fresh Kills.
This also led the companies to vastly expand their operations in industrial neighborhoods.
In the 1990's the city started to make plans to close Fresh Kills, prompted by two Federal lawsuits seeking to force closure. Engineers developed plans for a vast enclosed transfer station there to take trash from the harbor barges and transfer it to rail cars for shipment to out-of-state landfills. But planners assumed that the landfill would be open for another 20 years.
Suddenly, in 1996, it appeared the City Council would pass a law to begin closing Fresh Kills. Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, both of whom rode strong Staten Island majorities to victory, raced to take command, and jointly announced that the dump would close. The State Legislature passed a law to do this.
At that point only the closing date was known. A task force of city, state and Staten Island officials -- as well as two environmentalists -- was set up. They were keenly aware of their lack of tools: no incinerators, which are used in Japan, Sweden and other foreign countries, or landfills. Moreover, the task force decided that recycling could not come close to filling the need. "This is really like skiing down a slope with a lot of trees, on one leg," said a sanitation employee who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Export seemed the only route. The city took its plans for a huge transfer station at Fresh Kills -- behind the scenes, those plans had come to appear politically impossible because of Staten Island opposition -- then asked the major waste companies to make proposals for a similar center somewhere else on New York Harbor. The 650-ton barges that bring trash from the marine transfer stations on the shore of each borough would deliver it to the new stations.
The companies came back with 13 proposals, including building huge stations in Red Hook, Bay Ridge, the South Bronx and Williamsburg.
One proposal to put garbage in huge containers and place them on barges at the marine transfer stations was rejected as impractical, though opponents still press for it. They contend that it would have eliminated the need for the second large transfer station, but Sanitation Department officials have been unwilling to bet on new technologies. "If it doesn't work I'm stuck," said John J. Doherty, who recently resigned as Sanitation Commissioner.
But the idea has come to dominate discussions of garbage strategy. Opponents favor the eight existing marine transfer stations, where white sanitation trucks already go, because they are evenly distributed around the city and are not concentrated in poor neighborhoods.
They point to the rejected proposal by ECDC Environmental, a unit of Allied Waste Company, to rebuild the stations to allow garbage to be dumped directly into containers, then sealed and shipped out directly by rail from Staten Island. Mr. Molinari says he would accept something like this, providing the containers were very secure.
"Would it hurt the city to do a demonstration project -- either by us or somebody else -- or put it out to bid?" asked William W. Gay, an ECDC executive. "What's the worst that could happen?"
In addition to the basic long-term plan, the panel also decided it was important to show Staten Islanders a steady reduction in the garbage going to Fresh Kills. In the first step, 1,900 tons of Bronx garbage began to be exported by rail in July 1997. The second contract -- now being contested in court -- is for 2,400 tons of Brooklyn garbage to be exported through truck transfer stations.
The bottom line: For the first time since the 1930's, when ocean dumping ended, none of New York City's garbage will be disposed of in the city. But more areas of the city will play host to garbage, perhaps permanently.
 
Official Opposition On Many Fronts
The long-simmering stew of resentment over the city's garbage policy is beginning to boil.
The plaintiffs who delayed the two transfer stations in Williamsburg are mainly community advocates who served on Brooklyn's Solid Waste Advisory Board and then formed a separate group to sue the city and Waste Management, the contractee. They say, among other things, that at least one station lacks proper permits because required environmental reviews were not done. Because more and more people work and live in Williamsburg, they also say it should not be treated as a heavy manufacturing zone.
"Instead of this community moving forward to become a wonderful place to live, work and raise a family, the city administration is trying to push it backward into an industrial slum," Donald Kennedy, a fashion photographer living in a Williamsburg loft, said in an affidavit.
The city answers that it has done sufficient environmental reviews, including noise and traffic studies.
But legal action may be just beginning. Opponents say new siting rules for transfer stations are open to challenge. They say proper environmental reviews have not been done on the city's revisions to its basic solid waste management plan, making this vulnerable to suits. They also say the long-term export plan requires a broad environmental impact statement.
Beyond the courts, there are also other eruptions of opposition. The City Council's Environmental Protection Committee has been holding hearings on waste policy, and Chairman Stanley E. Michels says he is prepared to hold up or force changes in the city's garbage strategy. Another front is Federal. The Environmental Protection Agency is studying the health effects of transfer stations in the city, and its environmental justice advisory committee may make recommendations.
There are also potential problems in other states. The Mayor of Newark opposes a possible transfer station for New York City garbage on the Passaic River, and a Virginia state legislator has introduced a bill to ban the use of the James River to take garbage to landfills in that state.
And even though there appears to be plenty of landfill space available in other states -- and a Supreme Court decision supports the right to transport trash interstate -- Deputy Mayor Lhota said this could shift with the political winds. "I'm always worried about that," he said.
In the whirling mix of politics, economics and complicated logistics, it is impossible to predict the future of New York City's garbage. Maybe the Mayor will achieve his goal of closing Fresh Kills in 37 months. Maybe the opponents will wage a war of attrition -- suing and politicking and bickering -- that will stall the current plans, perhaps until another Mayor with different ideas and alliances is elected. The landfill may ultimately be closed through a Federal lawsuit still in the courts.
In some respects, garbage export seems the most straightforward of tasks. "This is heavy industrial technology," said Albert Appleton, a senior official at the Regional Plan Association and a former city environmental commissioner. "It is not rocket science. It is not leprosy."
But constructing a new garbage future will not be easy. "Rational decision-making hasn't driven waste management policy in New York for many years," said Eric Goldstein, a lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council. "Waste policy could be totally deadlocked on the eve of the closing of the Fresh Kills landfill."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of new waste transfer stations say City Hall plans to put them in minority neighborhoods, to replace a landfill that is closing on Staten Island. Above, a station in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Too Much Trash"
The city is phasing out sending residential garbage to Fresh Kills landfill, gransferring it instead to waste-transfer stations that handle commercial trash. Graph tracks tons of garbage transfered to stations and to Fresh Kills, from 1997 through 2001. (Sources: N.Y.C. Dept. of Sanitation)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); RED HOOK LIONS CLUB (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: RED HOOK LIONS CLUB (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC); RED HOOK (NYC); HUNTS POINT (NYC); FRESH KILLS (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LANDFILL; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) LANDFILLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); TRAINS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (71%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (71%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); RACE & RACISM (67%); CITIES (65%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; MOLINARI, GUY V (BORO PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



431 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: Beacon of Pride Extinguished;
Eight Forfeited Football Victories Stun Asbury Park

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: ASBURY PARK, N.J., Nov. 10

 BODY:
In the end, none of it counts for the Blue Bishops football team.
Not Derico Bridges's lightning dash for the end zone to seal a come-from-behind victory in the high school team's closest game of the season, won by a point. Not those four-hour practices stretching till dusk, the merciless speed drills and scrimmages, all done without the benefits of the weight room that opponents take for granted. Not the associate coach Bill Hill's clever defenses and other tactics, copied from his pro days playing for the Dallas Cowboys and Cleveland Browns.
And perhaps worst of all, not the team's average 24-point victory margin in building an 8-0 record and an almost sure shot at a state championship after an 18-year drought. 
 The Blue Bishops had to forfeit their entire season because two academically ineligible players were allowed to play, so the joyfully earned sweat gave way to tears in the locker room and around this economically depressed city. And if that were not bad enough, Freehold High School, an 0-8 team that was scheduled to play Asbury Park on Nov. 14 in a consolation game for teams that did not make the state playoffs, forfeited the game, fearing that the mismatch with a team that is 8-0 on the field might result in injury to its players.
The heartache is felt so acutely in this city, 60 miles from New York, that even the usually relentlessly cheerful Chamber of Commerce concedes that it has seen better days.
Poor planning, high crime, competition from other Jersey Shore resort towns and racial disturbances have all conspired to create a ghost town of weedy lots and shantylike stores and motels along the mile-square city's ocean-front lifeline.
Redevelopment plans come and go, but buildings like the Palace Amusements remain, rotting, its peeling letters on the ocean side spelling "ALACE AMUS EN." The grinning clown face painted on the side now seems more mocking than mirthful.
Even the city's connection to the rock singer Bruce Springsteen is destined for the nostalgia heap; the Stone Pony, the bar where he and members of his E Street Band jammed and played impromptu concerts in the 70's and 80's, closed in September to be renovated as a mellower dance club called Vinyl.
In the midst of this depression, the Blue Bishops were something to be proud of, to restore hope.
"They were like heroes here," said Tom Hayes, president of the 115-member Chamber of Commerce, which is planning a community rally for the team before its final game, the annual Thanksgiving Day contest against archrival Neptune High, undefeated and playoff bound. "It's not about sports. It's about a town down on its luck at the moment and the fact that people cared."
Now, the team has been turned into an object of contention and, to some, shame.
This is the second consecutive year that Asbury Park High's football team has had victories reversed and its chance at a championship scuttled. Last year, the team had to forfeit two games in which it played a student who did not have enough academic credits and was therefore ineligible. The forfeits changed a 6-3 record to 4-5 and pushed the team out of playoff contention. As they did last year, officials blame administrative errors for this year's lapses. "When I first heard, I thought somebody was lying," said Mr. Bridges, a senior running back who has been courted by several colleges, including Rutgers and the Universities of Michigan and Kentucky. "I thought, 'Not again, not a second year in a row.' It hurt. It hurt all the kids and the city."
In the aftermath of the latest setback, a city with an estimated population of almost 19,000 that had found common spirit in the team is sagging once again. Asbury players and students are angry, adults are pointing fingers at one another, and some people in the community are reassessing the role of athletics at an academically poor school.
Wesley McLean, a senior who plays drums in the marching band, expressed the prevailing sentiment of students: "It's just not right."
The reversal of fortune adds to the muck in a school year already filled with it. The very stadium to which the Blue Bishops returned this school year after a $2 million renovation -- the team played its home games on the road for more than a year -- is the subject of an investigation by the Monmouth County Prosecutor, John Kaye, that has led to the indictments of the former school board president, the former school board attorney and a local contractor on bid-rigging and related charges.
The contractor, Robert Sullivan, was also charged with attempted murder in the stabbing of a construction worker who was a witness in the investigation, said Paul Feldman, an assistant Monmouth County prosecutor. Mr. Sullivan and Kim A. Fallenz, the former board attorney, have pleaded not guilty and are free on bail. James Famularo, the former board president, has not yet entered a plea, and his lawyer, Robert S. Bonney, did not return phone calls this week. The investigation continues, Mr. Feldman said.
Earlier this fall, a judge in State Superior Court in Freehold removed three board members, including Mr. Famularo, after concluding that their grand jury testimony included admissions that they stole board money. The board members deny wrongdoing and are appealing their removals.
The investigation evidently soured voters on the stadium. In a referendum last month, they rejected spending $1 million more in bonds to finish work on the stadium, leaving locker rooms, bathrooms and weight-training rooms unfinished.
A crowd is expected at the next two Board of Education meetings, on Monday and Nov. 19. The new school board president, Barbara Greenwood-Scott, said the board was likely to discipline the school's athletic director, Stephen D. Kessler, who, with the assistance of the school principal and other staff members, is in charge of insuring that all players are eligible. An anonymous tip led Mr. Kessler to recheck the records of one player, who was found to be ineligible because as a newly classified special-education student, he should have refrained from athletics for at least one semester.
On Oct. 23, the school reported the case to the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association, the governing body for high school sports, which erased the team's first six victories the following week because the player was on the field for those games.
As the team played two more games, school officials pored over the records of the other players. On Nov. 3, they announced that another student lacked the academic credits to be on the team. Since that student had played in the two games, those victories were also wiped out.
Boyd A. Sands, executive director of the athletic association, said that each season, several schools forfeit games after they are found to have violated the rules, and once in a while an entire season is wiped out. Although he said he could not be more specific because such records are not kept, the Asbury Park situation is clearly very unusual.
Mr. Kessler, who left work on paid sick leave a week ago; the school principal, Daniel Murphy, and Robert Mann, the superintendent of schools, who was involved in the review of the players' records, did not return several telephone calls this week seeking comment. These administrators and members of the Child Study Team, a group of educators and administrators who oversee special education in each school, are the subjects of a board investigation that will probably result in disciplinary action against some or all of them, Mrs. Greenwood-Scott said.
In an interview with The Asbury Park Press published on Oct. 30, after the first player's ineligibility was discovered, Mr. Kessler said: "I would never have knowingly allowed an ineligible player to participate. And I never will. It was an honest misinterpretation of the rule."
Larry Hill, the head coach, declined to discuss the investigation, but as he walked to a coaches' meeting today to discuss the coming Neptune game, he reflected on the lost season. "You run across championship teams once in a lifetime," he lamented. "You run across undefeated championship teams how often?"
But it was the players who were truly shocked by the news. They learned about the erasure of their first six victories after their closest game of the season, a come-from-behind 22-21 win over Shore Regional High School in West Long Branch.
Players shouted in anger. A few wept. But most were simply stunned.
Then, after learning that the team would have to sacrifice all of its wins because of the second ineligible player and would not be able to play Freehold because of the forfeiture, the players were devastated.
"Right now we feel like, forget it, there's nothing we can do about it," said Mr. Bridges, one of four team captains. "Before we start to get on the field, the administration or whoever should make sure everything is all right. We feel like we did everything for nothing."
Asbury Park High is a sports-mad school of 756 students, predominantly black, in a city whose median income of $20,754 is half that of affluent Monmouth County and whose unemployment rate of 18 percent is three times the state's average.
The school has a high transience rate -- 40 percent of its students entered or left during the last school year, compared with the state average of 14 percent -- and low test scores. Just 38 percent of the students passed the state's standardized High School Proficiency Tests last school year, compared with the state average of 74 percent.
While the honor roll board in the school lobby was devoid of names this week, display cases in the main hallway of the 72-year-old school are filled with trophies testifying to athletic exploits over the years. The boys' and girls' track teams had a streak of state championships in the 80's and 90's, and the basketball team is often a threat to other schools' teams.
Bill Hill, the associate head coach, said that despite these successes, he tells players that the odds of receiving an athletic scholarship to college and making it in the professional leagues are stacked against them.
But the coaching staff members and school administrators need to do more to promote academics, he said. "I have to say," he said, "we have a tutoring program for the players, but it could be stronger."
Mrs. Greenwood-Scott, the new board president and a 1968 graduate of Asbury Park High, said she would like to see a better balance of sports and academics.
"We don't want anyone to think football is the answer to our prayers," she said. "Our prime factor is to deal with education, and we don't want anyone to think anything else."
Such goals, however, got drowned out by the team's winning streak. Many residents got caught up in the fever, as those of any city, depressed or not, tend to get. And the city still seems to be having a hard time facing up to what happened.
An overflow crowd is expected at the stadium for the Thanksgiving game. And nobody has changed the sign in front of the school, which proudly proclaims: "Football team 8-0. Keep up the good work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A variety of factors have combined to create a ghost town of weedy lots and shantylike stores and motels in Asbury Park. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Leondray Bell scoring against Keyport High School on Oct. 10 in one of eight games Asbury Park has forfeited because of ineligible players. (Peter Ackerman/The Asbury Park Press)(pg. B1); What might have been: a season of promise at Asbury Park High. Now, not even the single-point come-from-behind victory counts. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Map of New Jersey higlighting Asbury Park; An undefeated football team was a source of hope in Asbury Park. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASBURY PARK PRESS INC (86%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); DALLAS COWBOYS (57%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASBURY PARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); POP & ROCK (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



432 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Coyote Hunt Splits Animal Advocates and Ranchers

BYLINE: By MINDY SINK 

DATELINE: RAWLINS, Wyo., Nov. 14

 BODY:
The image of a howling coyote is a romantic symbol of the still untamed wild West to some, but to many hunters and ranchers it represents a persistent predator. And so in another Western tradition, hunters from several states gathered this weekend to compete in the annual National Coyote Calling Contest.
The hunters, who came from as far away as South Africa and as near as Colorado, paid an entrance fee of about $150 each to compete for a purse of several thousand dollars, won by a man who killed nine coyotes. The hunt was legal and included about 150 hunters who worked in pairs over a day and a half in the mountains here in south-central Wyoming that are home to sheep and cattle as well as antelope and deer. Using only a specialized "call" to lure the coyotes, the hunters killed 200 of the 545 coyotes they said they had spotted. 
 Hunting contests across the nation, primarily in Western states, have had environmentalists facing off against farmers and ranchers.
Andrea Lococo, Rocky Mountain coordinator of the Fund for Animals, which is based in New York, said, "While acceptable at one point in the past, there is no biological or ecological justification for these types of activities anymore.
"Traditions in the West are sometimes hard to break, but we find this to be particularly egregious -- killing for kicks, for fun and money, blood sport."
Such opposition has led to the cancellation of two contests in Arizona earlier this year, a review of the regulations on hunting contests in that state and new restrictions on small game hunting in Colorado.
In both Arizona and Colorado, hunters and animal-rights advocates have found themselves in an awkward alignment over the issue. "Those contests give a black eye to hunting," said Diane Gansauer, executive director of the Colorado Wildlife Federation. "It's as much hunting as shooting fish in a barrel."
But one hunter, Jeff Barnes, a 36-year-old electrical contractor from Utah, said: "We would hunt for no money.
"And we probably only kill 2 percent of what the state kills."
Mr. Johnson, and most of the hunters here, said this hunt would not make a dent in the local coyote population, and that they kill far less than the government agencies, like state Animal Damage Control agencies, which kill thousands of coyotes annually with poisons and in aerial hunts.
The attitudes of many state officials about the hunting contests were summed up by Gov. Jim Geringer of Wyoming in a recent letter to an opponent of the contest: "Briefly, these species are unregulated and are allowed to be taken by any legal method, anytime during the year. The number of coyotes taken is relatively small compared to the statewide coyote population and the economic impacts of the losses of livestock and wildlife."
Though she opposed the weekend coyote hunt, Ms. Gansauer, who is a hunter herself, said, "It's our strong opinion this is not an animal rights issue. The hunters need to police their own so the reputation of hunting is not in serious jeopardy."
The contests have historically involved prairie dogs and coyotes because of their abundance and the damage they can do to livestock, grazing areas and household pets. In Arizona, home of the Phoenix Coyotes hockey team, there are an estimated 200,000 to 300,000 coyotes, and there are unofficial estimates in Wyoming of about 100,000 coyotes.
In Wyoming, the second largest wool-producing state in the nation, ranchers and hunters say the contests are a cost-effective way to manage the coyote population.
"Man is supposed to be a manager of the land and animals," said Dan Thompson, a sheep rancher and founder of the contest here. "We want to live with them, not in spite of them."
The Wyoming Department of Agriculture recorded 59,000 sheep and lambs lost to coyote predation in 1997, which accounted for 69 percent of the losses in sheep and lambs. There are no statistics to show how many sheep were killed by other predators like bobcats, eagles and dogs. Wool production in Wyoming is a $55 million-a-year industry and losses from predators in 1997 was $7.73 million -- $3.56 million of that from coyotes. Another 15,000 sheep and lambs were lost to disease, severe weather and old age in 1997.
Overpopulation of coyotes also can increase diseases like distemper, rabies and mange among their packs, as well as decrease big-game populations of antelope, deer and elk, Governor Geringer pointed out.
This reasoning, however, is no consolation to David L. Gaillard of Predator Project, a nonprofit conservation group in Bozeman, Mont. "It's rooted in the culture to make the West safe for people and livestock," he said. "But simply shooting the coyotes doesn't solve predation. The coyotes respond by producing larger litters and dispersing adults."
Mr. Gaillard said the problem is cyclical as wildlife areas are developed, deer and other prey species are forced into urban areas, luring predators like coyotes and mountain lions. "The majority of Americans don't want to see their wildlife treated this way," he said in reference to social attitudes toward hunting.
In fact, a United States Fish and Wildlife Service survey in 1996 showed only 13 percent of men and 1 percent of women in the United States go hunting; 14 million hunting licenses were sold last year.
As the hunters face opposition, they shy away from discussing their hunts. Many will go from here to the World Coyote Calling Contest in Elko, Nev., next weekend or to another local hunt in the state.
"We're not barbarians," said Allen York, the winner of this year's hunt here. "But the 'anti's' spread so much negativity," he said, referring to hunting opponents.
Last year a photograph in the local paper showed the carcasses of 242 coyotes lying side by side in a dirt parking lot, provoking outrage over the hunt. This year, each animal was hastily loaded into a horse trailer as hunters in camouflage stood around sipping light beer and diet soft drinks, discussing sightings of wild horses and the bone-chilling wind. The pelts are used for trim on the collars and cuffs of leather and other winter coats. The proceeds from sales of the white-to-gray and fawn-colored pelts, at about $12 to $14 a piece, will go to a domestic violence project in Wyoming.
"About the worst thing to happen to hunting was Walt Disney," Mr. Thompson said. "The animated voice doesn't make them human.
"The coyote is smart, elusive. I respect him. I don't hunt him because I hate him, but we have to have checks and balances."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dead coyotes being weighed at the National Coyote Calling Championships in Rawlins, Wyo., yesterday. At least 200 coyotes were killed. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FUND FOR ANIMALS (55%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUND FOR ANIMALS (55%); FUND FOR ANIMALS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RAWLINS (WYO); WYOMING; WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HUNTING AND TRAPPING; COYOTES; CONTESTS AND PRIZES ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); MOUNTAINS (69%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%); ANIMAL CONTROL (62%); MAMMALS (58%); 

PERSON: SINK, MINDY

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



433 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
U.S. Accepts Iraq's Pledge To Allow Arms Inspections
President Clinton said that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had unconditionally retreated and once again vowed complete cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors. That vow will be tested quickly, Mr. Clinton said, and American and British forces that nearly struck Iraq on Saturday remain poised to act. A1
 
Even before the Security Council resolved to give Iraq a chance to prove that it really intended to resume cooperation with arms inspectors, some familiar code words for trouble were in the air. A11
 
Some American soldiers in Kuwait are getting weary of Saddam Hussein and expressing frustration at what they see as a problem with Iraq that will not go away. A11
 
Iraq's shift away from confrontation was greeted in the Arab world with swift statements of relief that could complicate American efforts to maintain military pressure. Three days ago, Egypt, Syria and others said Saddam Hussein alone would bear the blame for whatever his defiance provoked. A11
 
Indonesian Military Scrutinized
The unrest in Indonesia subsided, but not before some military officers on duty to keep order on Saturday said they felt uncomfortable exerting their authority during the recent protests. Indonesians, diplomats and other analysts are perplexed as to why the military acted as harshly as it did, shooting and killing six demonstrators who had made no real effort to break through its lines. A3
 
Trips to Israel for Jewish Youth
Jewish organizations plan to start a program that will pay for any Jew in the world between 15 and 26 to visit Israel for 10 days, an effort to rebuild religious identity among young Jews, who are marrying non-Jews and abandoning the faith in large numbers. While many details remain to be worked out, the program is expected to cost $300 million over five years and to be financed by the Israeli Government, a group of major Jewish donors from North America and the Council of Jewish Federations. There is a wide menu of choices -- kibbutz trips, archeological trips, hiking treks, ecological journeys and historical trips. A8
 
Albright Meeting Angers Hosts
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met the wife of a jailed Malaysian political leader in Kuala Lumpur, a gesture of solidarity that angered her hosts at the annual meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Ms. Albright's meeting and the reaction suggested that politics could swamp economics at the gathering. A6
 
Georgia Holds Local Elections
The Georgian republic, facing financial and economic woes, held its first post-Soviet local elections, a key test for President Eduard Shevardnadze and his ruling Citizens Union bloc. More than 150,000 candidates and 13 parties and blocs competed for town and village council seats. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A14-19
 
U.S. and Partners to Begin Building Space Station
The United States and 15 other nations are ready to start building the largest, most complex structure ever assembled in space, the international space station. The start of the five-year construction project comes after years of debate, hundreds of studies, thousands of pages of blueprints and billions of dollars. A1 
 
Cruise Lines Face Accusations
The booming of the cruise business has presented new concerns in part because of the size of giant liners and in part because the cruise lines operate largely outside the laws of any one country. Of particular concern are the accusations of sexual assaults committed by crew members. An examination of such cases on ships operated by the largest cruise lines found a pattern of coverups. A1
 
Lawmaker's Financial Troubles
Representative J. C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma, who is challenging Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio for his post as Republican Conference Chairman, has had to defend himself over the years against accusations arising from bad debts, unpaid state and Federal taxes, and his actions during a Federal bribery investigation in 1991. Details of Mr. Watts's finances emerged from interviews and an examination of records. A1
 
Labor Party Convenes
Delegates of the Labor Party gathered in Pittsburgh for the party's constitutional convention. A14
 
Challenging the Death Penalty
Death penalty opponents brought together 28 of the 75 people who have been released from death rows across the country since 1972 to participate in a Chicago conference. A14
 
Coyote Hunters Compete
Hunters from several states gathered in south-central Wyoming to compete in the annual National Coyote Calling Contest. A19
 
Blacks Object to Course
Leaders of the state N.A.A.C.P. in North Carolina are deciding whether to file a formal complaint over a college course that asserts that most slaves were happy in captivity. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
City's Trash Strategy Raises New Concerns
New York City is scrambling to deal with the flow of residential trash that, by law, must stop going to the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island by Dec. 31, 2001. Large swaths of the city will experience a much closer connection with garbage, both through transfer stations, where waste is loaded for shipment out of state, and the fleets of trucks traveling to them. Critics say that minority neighborhoods suffer unfairly. B1 
 
Costs of Police Inquiries
New York City has a big financial incentive to strengthen the independent agency that monitors and investigates accusations of police misconduct, with police brutality lawsuits costing the city $96.8 million over the last four years -- nearly 10 cents of every dollar that the city paid in 1997 in personal injury cases, according to a new report released by the New York Civil Liberties Union. B3
 
Court Battle on A.T.M. Fees
Connecticut officials and two major banks will face off in court today in a battle over a state rule -- one of just two in the country -- that forbids banks to charge noncustomers who use their automated teller machines. Industry officials say that if the ban is upheld, other states might seek to impose similar bans. B4
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
OBITUARIES B10-11
 
Stokely Carmichael
The flamboyant civil rights leader was 57. He changed his name in 1978 to Kwame Ture and is best remembered for his use of the phrase "black power," which in the mid-1960's ignited a white backlash and alarmed an older generation of civil rights leaders, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. B10
 
Laurence Gandar
A South African newspaper editor credited with bringing investigative journalism to a country that desperately needed it, he was 82. B11
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-12
 
Satellites on Meteor Alert
The Earth is hurtling into the path of a comet called Temple-Tuttle and, according to scientists, will witness the most intense meteor shower in more than three decades tomorrow when it enters the comet's debris-strewn backwash. The storm predicted for tomorrow will put 600 or so man-made satellites at some risk. C1
 
Ouster Expected at Universal
"Meet Joe Black," the lavish three-hour film made by Universal Studios, opened over the weekend to poor reviews and a disappointing box office, increasing expectations in the movie industry that the studio's owner, Seagram, planned to oust Frank Biondi Jr., Universal's chairman and chief executive, and overhaul Universal's corporate structure. C2
 
Taking On Operating Systems
Lawrence J. Ellison, chairman of Oracle, plans to introduce a new version of his company's data base program at the Comdex computer industry trade show in Las Vegas, Nev. The program is intended to do away almost entirely with the operating system on computer servers. C5
 
Deal for Fiber Optic Lines
Cable and Wireless of Britain has agreed to buy more than $100 million worth of fiber optic lines from Global Crossing, a small international communications carrier, executives close to the deal said. C5
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Back from the brink with Iraq; the reading room reopens; honest numbers on Capitol Hill; Steven R. Weisman on a Democratic "ground war."
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E4
 
Metro. Diary B2
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather B9

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDONESIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GEORGIA (85%); EGYPT (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDONESIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GEORGIA (85%); EGYPT (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SHOOTINGS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



434 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Are Internet offerings sound investments or just raw speculation?

BYLINE: By Reed Abelson

 BODY:
IN moonshots heard throughout cyberspace, the stocks of two newly public companies soared last week as investors again rushed to buy up the promise of the Internet. Small investors, especially those glued to their computer screens, pushed the prices of many Internet stocks to levels that seemed to defy gravity and common sense.
The two latest arrivals were among the biggest beneficiaries of the general enthusiasm for anything Internet. The stock of Theglobe.com Inc., a New York company that helps people design Web pages, raced from its initial offering price of $9, to hit $97, before closing on Friday at $63.50. Its astounding 606 percent gain was the best first-day performance for any initial public offering, excluding the tiniest offerings, according to the Securities Data Company in Newark. Its performance was more than twice that of any other new stock. 
 Theglobe.com's debut followed an earlier display by another fledgling Internet outfit, Earthweb Inc., which gained 247 percent on Wednesday, its first day of trading. Its stock closed on Friday at $67, nearly five times its initial offering price.
"The valuations being ascribed to these very young companies make almost no sense," said Lise Buyer, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, who likens the current frenzy over the Internet to the mania for tulips in Holland during the 1600's.
Theglobe.com, for example, now has a market value of $622 million, though it had $11.5 million of losses on $2.7 million of revenues for the first nine months of the year. The company "has a debatable business model," said Keith Benjamin of BancBoston Robertson Stephens.
Helping propel these stocks is the limited number of shares being sold in these offerings. Theglobe.com, for example, offered only 3.1 million shares. Companies offer a small number of shares if they believe a secondary offering, with a much higher stock price, can be a source of future capital.
With demand so great for these stocks, there appears to be a shortage of supply. The performance of Theglobe.com "would never have happened if you did not have the Internet feeding frenzy," said David Menlow, the president of IPO Financial Network in Springfield, N.J.
Investors who are are piling into Internet stocks may believe they are actually reducing their risk because they think that these companies will prosper, no matter what happens in Asia or Latin America or where interest rates are headed. "In almost a perverse way, Internet stocks have become a safe haven for technology stock investors," said Jonathan Cohen, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, who believes many Internet companies do ultimately have great potential.
The enthusiasm for Internet stocks may also be reawakening interest in the market for initial public offerings, which suffered along with the rest of the market earlier this year when many investors ran from risk. Theglobe.com, for example, had postponed its offering last month. But when Earthweb was so eagerly received, the underwriters of Theglobe.com "ran it up the flagpole," said John Fitzgibbon, the editor of the IPO Reporter, a New York newsletter on initial offerings, who thinks other companies may also try now to go public.
And many investors may simply be trying to go along for the ride, even if they do not have the benefit of getting the stock at its offering price. "If you get in early and sell, you will make money," Ms. Buyer said. The danger is that some investors may not know when to make an exit; instead, they may be caught up in a sudden change in market sentiment -- and lose money -- while waiting unsuccessfully for a greater fool to relieve them of their shares at a profit.
"How long does it go on?" Ms. Buyer asked of the latest Internet frenzy. "It could go on for years. It could go on for hours." But, she said, investors should realize that they really are taking risks with their money, because the stocks of many of these companies could tumble on the slightest dose of reality.
"This is not investing," she said. "This is speculating."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Fast Starts"
Two very successful initial public offerings last week by Theglobe.com and Earthweb may indicate that after a long drought, going public, particularly among Internet companies, is back in fashion. Here is how the two offerings stacked up against of the best ever.
 
Company -- Theglobe.com
Date it went public -- Nov. 12, 1998
Offering price -- $9.00
First day's closing price -- $63.50
Change on first day -- +606%
 
Company -- Broadcast.com
Date it went public -- July 6, 1998
Offering price -- $18.00
First day's closing price -- $62.75
Change on first day -- +249%
 
Company -- Earthweb
Date it went public -- Nov. 10, 1998
Offering price -- $14.00
First day's closing price -- $48.69
Change on first day -- +247%
 
Company -- Secure Computing
Date it went public -- Nov. 17, 1995
Offering price -- $16.00
First day's closing price -- $48.25
Change on first day -- +202%
 
Company -- Ebay
Date it went public -- Sept. 24, 1998
Offering price -- $18.00
First day's closing price -- $47.38
Change on first day -- +163%
 
Company -- Yahoo!
Date it went public -- April 12, 1996
Offering price -- $13.00
First day's closing price -- $33.00
Change on first day -- +154%
 
Company -- Rambus
Date it went public -- May 13, 1997
Offering price -- $12.00
First day's closing price -- $30.25
Change on first day -- +152%
 
Company -- Boston Chicken
Date it went public -- Nov. 8, 1993
Offering price -- $20.00
First day's closing price -- $48.50
Change on first day -- +143%
 
Company -- Planning Sciences
Date it went public -- April 30, 1996
Offering price -- $10.00
First day's closing price -- $24.13
Change on first day -- +141%
 
Company -- Home Shopping Network
Date it went public -- May 13, 1986
Offering price -- $18.00
First day's closing price -- $42.63
Change on first day -- +137%
 
(Source: Securities Data Co.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DHX (NYSE) (69%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (69%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (56%); ASIA (51%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: THEGLOBE.COM INC (84%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (70%); DICE HOLDINGS INC (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (56%); ASIA (51%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



435 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS WITH IRAQ: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON ACCEPTS IRAQ'S PROMISE TO ALLOW WEAPONS INSPECTIONS

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had unconditionally retreated and once again had vowed complete cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors. That vow will be tested quickly, Mr. Clinton said, and American and British forces that nearly struck Iraq on Saturday will remain poised to act.
"Iraq has backed down, but that is not enough," Mr. Clinton said in a brief White House appearance before reporters today. "Now Iraq must live up to its obligations." Text of the President's statement and Iraq's clarification, page A11.
Mr. Clinton also called more openly than ever before for the overthrow of Mr. Hussein, calling him "an impediment to the well-being of his people and a threat to the peace of his region and the security of the world." 
 But the Pentagon also announced today it was suspending its military buildup in the Persian Gulf region.
In the latest round of seven years of confrontation with Iraq over weapons inspections, senior American officials struggled to explain why Mr. Clinton found acceptable today what his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, had said was unacceptable the day before.
They said the Iraqis had clarified their position overnight in two letters that eliminated all unacceptable conditions. The Administration regards those letters as binding on Baghdad, officials said, despite comments today by Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz that seemed to cast doubt on their authority.
Most important, the officials said, Iraq had now agreed to hand over to the weapons inspectors two sensitive documents on its chemical and biological weapons programs and promised the inspectors full and unfettered access to all sites -- including those the Americans deemed too controversial to risk last summer.
The United Nations weapons inspection regime, called Unscom, has been stymied for the last year, the officials said. But they insisted that Mr. Hussein's retreat now had "opened a window of effectiveness for Unscom that we want to use as quickly as possible."
They said they expected United Nations inspectors to return to Iraq in about two days with a specific list of documents they want to see and sensitive sites they want to inspect, together with the personnel and the equipment to do it. At least some of those sites were at the center of a dispute with Iraq this summer.
One of those documents, dealing with Iraq's chemical-weapons program, was found at the Iraqi Air Force headquarters but was seized from Unscom by Iraqi authorities; the other document, dealing with Iraq's biological weapons program, the United Nations inspectors know about but have never seen.
If the Iraqis resist inspection efforts now, the officials said, the American and British military are prepared to attack. But the officials acknowledged that military action would be impossible so long as officials of the inspection team and the other nations on the Security Council believe they are getting adequate cooperation from the Iraqis.
In the effort to contain Iraq, economic sanctions are only helped by a functioning inspection program, one senior official of a NATO country said. "For nearly two years, Unscom has been pushed backward and for the last year, its performance has been next to useless," the official said. "But we now have an opportunity to get Unscom back to a satisfactory level of performance, and Unscom has the greatest possible leverage just now to inspect."
A senior American official said: "Unscom should feel pretty good, because they're now in a stronger position than they've been in a long time. The spotlight is on Saddam, where it belongs, and not on Unscom. And Iraqi obstruction will be clear and unacceptable."
Last February, Washington also vowed that force would be used against Iraq if Mr. Hussein broke his promises to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan that he would guarantee complete access for inspectors. But that threat proved hollow, paving the way for this latest chapter in the effort to disarm Iraq.
Today, Mr. Clinton called the return of the weapons inspectors "the best outcome, because they have been and they remain the most effective tool to uncover, destroy and prevent Iraq from rebuilding its weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them."
Mr. Clinton listed five benchmarks to judge Iraqi compliance: Iraq must allow inspectors "unfettered access" to all sites they choose to see, "with no restrictions or qualifications"; it must turn over all relevant documents on the production of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them; it must not interfere with the inspectors or question their independence or professional expertise, for example, by dictating the composition of Unscom teams; it must "resolve all outstanding issues raised" by the weapons inspectors; and it must accept all the relevant United Nations resolutions regarding weapons of mass destruction.
The Americans and the British had authorized the use of force against Iraq to break out of the cycle of Iraqi defiance and retreat, the officials acknowledged. But they also said Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain decided it would be immoral to continue with an attack once there were serious signs of an Iraqi retreat.
Iraq made its diplomatic initiative as B-52 bombers loaded with cruise missiles were airborne. There was no indication that the decision to use force on Saturday -- made by Mr. Clinton Friday night and by Mr. Blair on Saturday morning -- was leaked to Iraq, officials said.
In the hour or so before President Clinton called off the attack at about 8 A.M. on Saturday, there was a quick debate of the pros and cons of continuing with the attack, a White House official said.
"There was not much time or information," he said, and officials were spread out everywhere, from Malaysia to the Pentagon. "The President made a call to abort, and people supported the President's decision," he added.
The decision to call off the air strikes actually postponed them 24 hours, officials said. At 3:30 A.M. today, after clarifications from Iraq, Mr. Clinton decided that Washington "would take 'yes' for an answer" and called off the bombing again. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair spoke eight times on Saturday, officials said; British pilots were to be responsible for 20 percent of the targets to be hit by manned airplanes, as opposed to cruise missiles, the officials said.
"This is not over until absolute and unconditional compliance is guaranteed and delivered," Mr. Blair said this morning in London. If Iraq violates its new pledges, he said, there will be air strikes, and "there will be no warning whatsoever."
Kenneth Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said in an interview that if Mr. Hussein interferes again with the inspections, "our forces are there and we've shown we're ready to use them." What has been gained now, Mr. Bacon said, "is the chance to have a more effective inspections regime."
Mr. Hussein's two goals are to end the sanctions and the inspections, in order to keep weapons of mass destruction, Mr. Bacon said. "What he's left with this time is an international community more united behind his need to meet U.N. resolutions before sanctions are lifted."
The Pentagon announced today that it would suspend the deployment of dozens of additional aircraft and ground forces to the gulf region, where the United States already maintains some 23,000 troops as well as a dozen warships and 170 aircraft.
Those aircraft that had already arrived in the gulf -- 6 B-52's, 4 B-1's, and several support aircraft -- will remain there. Several squadrons of fighter planes got as far as American bases in Europe and will remain there. The rest of the 139 aircraft that President Clinton ordered to the region last week will remain at bases in the United States, as will roughly 4,000 ground troops who had been readied to go.
The American effort to keep the spotlight on Mr. Hussein's defiance and not on the inspection team's methods led to decisions last summer that proved highly controversial and to the resignation of an d American inspector, Scott Ritter. Mr. Ritter charged that Washington had discouraged the commission's chairman, Richard Butler, from confrontational inspections because it did not want a new crisis.
American and British officials say the charge is unfair, because the policy was designed to avoid the expulsion of Unscom and a military confrontation on Mr. Hussein's timing and terms, when there was no unity in the Security Council.
But now that the Security Council is firmly behind the inspectors' right to complete access to all sites, the officials argue, those inspections should be carried out as soon as possible, to test Mr. Hussein's compliance while military force remains on standby.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A subheading on Monday with an article about the Security Council's view of Iraqi pledges on arms inspections misstated the affiliation of the inspectors. They work for the United Nations, not the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton announced yesterday that Iraq had "backed down" on weapons inspections. With him were Gen. Hugh H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); The Iraqi press said yesterday that Baghdad's decision to allow resumption of arms inspections had robbed the United States of an excuse to launch military action. Customers flocked to a Baghdad newsstand. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GULF STATES (88%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; PERSIAN GULF; ; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GULF STATES (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); JAMES D SHELTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998



436 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
Sure, Devoted to His Wife: Question Is, Which One?

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY 

 BODY:
How's this for an idea for a play? A powerful, charismatic man of 50-some years has a strong, smart helpmeet of a wife, an adoring daughter and a reputation for social idealism. Unfortunately, he has these character flaws, too: an ungovernable sexual appetite, a dangerous love of risk and a tendency to believe that he exists outside the law. The result: he lands in a career-shattering sex scandal that is played out in front-page headlines.
That happens to be the plot of "The Ride Down Mount Morgan." This comic drama by Arthur Miller, which opened at the Joseph Papp Public Theater last night, has been described by its author as "a completely political play." Of course he said that back in 1991, when "Mount Morgan" had its world premiere in London and the Clinton Administration was still to come. Actually, the Presidency on Mr. Miller's mind just then was that of Ronald Reagan, who he said had given an "imprimatur" to selfish individualism. 
 That it has taken seven years for this play to arrive in New York turns out to be lucky, doesn't it? Mr. Miller's portrait of a self-styled, self-sabotaging superman, portrayed here by Patrick Stewart, now buzzes with a relevance it didn't have even when it made its United States debut at the Williamstown Theater Festival in 1996.
Instead of watching those old windbags on television, pontificating on sexual morality and appropriate versus inappropriate lying in the Clinton White House, you can now see the same themes explored in a theatrical entertainment rather like those risque infidelity farces of the 1960's.
Yet there's no avoiding the impression that "Mount Morgan" smells musty, despite the physical elegance of the director David Esbjornson's production and compelling performances from Mr. Stewart, the English classical actor best known here for his work on the "Star Trek" series, and Frances Conroy. This tale of a bigamous insurance executive, running scared from intimations of mortality, brings to mind a host of more vivid works about the desperation of male menopause (think Saul Bellow or Philip Roth), with the attendant sense that Mr. Miller has really brought nothing new to the table.
On one level the play is an angry indictment of a culture that encourages the desire to "have it all." The images most often evoked to characterize Lyman Felt, the double-dealing businessman played by Mr. Stewart, are those of an insatiable hunger, and Lyman, in his opening lines, speaks of the American economy as a giant breast from which to suck.
Lyman's particular appetites have led him to take on two wives, who live, unaware of each other's existence, in Manhattan and in upstate New York. There's the proper, WASP-ish Theodora (Ms. Conroy) to whom he's been married for decades, and the more recently acquired Leah (Meg Gibson), a gutsy young Jewish businesswoman of unashamed sexuality. When Lyman crashes his Porsche driving down the mountain of the title on a snowy night, both wives visit their injured spouse in the hospital on what becomes a day of reckoning.
Like much of Mr. Miller's work, from "Death of a Salesman" to last season's "Mr. Peters' Connections," "Mount Morgan" has a dreamlike aspect, the sense that what is happening takes place inside its central character's head. At least that's the way it is set up, as Lyman ponders conflicted past and perilous future in his sickbed, with John Arnone's fluid set designs and Brian MacDevitt's lighting evoking the appropriate phantasmal atmosphere.
But prosaic reality keeps asserting itself. The scene in which the two wives meet, which Lyman thinks he is only imagining, is indeed what really happens. As Tom (John C. Vennema), his lawyer and longtime friend, observes tartly of the accuracy of Lyman's vision: "Well, that wouldn't be too difficult. It's all pretty inevitable."
That's true of the play, too. It all feels inevitable, predetermined by theatrical convention and the questions of ethics that have always obsessed Mr. Miller but that he usually doesn't state quite so baldly. As the evening slides between past and present, much time is given to the farcical mechanics of maintaining two wives, "Captain's Paradise" style, and assorted scenes in which Lyman considers with alarm the prospect of disappearing "without a trace."
Mr. Miller has revised "Mount Morgan" since its Williamstown production, wisely eliminating the presence of the ghost of Lyman's father. It also helps that the playwright has some sympathy for his capitalist devil. If you gave Lyman a vocal conscience, he wouldn't be so different from the rueful Quentin, Mr. Miller's alter ego in "After the Fall." Unlike F. Murray Abraham, who played the part in Williamstown as a reptilian whiner, Mr. Stewart exudes a brusque sensuality and provides lovely facial shadings of ambivalence that undermine his character's confident assertions.
At other moments, however, there's a quality of impersonation about the performance, a sense of distance between the actor and his role. This partly comes from Lyman's being weighted with too much generic Milleresque history: an Albanian father and a Jewish mother to embody his dual nature; an earlier, abandoned career as a poet; an episode of having betrayed a friend to the Government.
The stoical, conservative Theodora is even more a compendium of social cliches. Yet Ms. Conroy magically transmutes these elements into a deeply affecting portrait of a wounded woman possessed of a buried, self-aware irony that is dragged to the surface by events.
One wishes that she were better matched in Ms. Gibson, who performs with a soap-opera-ish self-consciousness that ill suits her tough, sexy character. Even Ms. Conroy's most obvious comic moments seem to occur on several levels, and her Theodora holds onto her dignity, even through a humiliating fantasy sequence and a scene in which she has lost her skirt.
Overall, in fact, this "Mount Morgan" has an elegiac dignity that its Williamstown incarnation, directed by Scott Elliott, lacked. Mr. Elliott exaggerated the farcical elements in ways that were particularly unflattering to the production's actresses and seemed to confirm the theory that Mr. Miller has only limited gifts for creating female characters.
But along with Elizabeth Franz's excellent Linda Loman in the Broadway-bound revival of "Death of a Salesman," Ms. Conroy's Theodora suggests that there can indeed be more to Miller women than meets the eye. It's too bad that you leave "Mount Morgan" thinking that Theo deserves not just a better husband but a better play.
 
THE RIDE DOWN MOUNT MORGAN
 
By Arthur Miller; directed by David Esbjornson; sets by John Arnone; costumes by Elizabeth Hope Clancy; lighting by Brian MacDevitt; original music by Dan Moses Schreier; production dramaturgue, Shirley Fishman; production stage manager, Erica Schwartz. associate producer, Wiley Hausam; artistic associate, Brian Kulick; associate producer, Bonnie Metzgar; general manager, Michael Hurst. Presented by the Joseph Papp Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival, George C. Wolfe, producer; Rosemarie Tichler, artistic producer; Mark Litvin, managing director. At the Newman Theater, in the Joseph Papp Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village.
 
WITH: Patrick Stewart (Lyman), Oni Faida Lampley (Nurse Logan), Frances Conroy (Theo), Kali Rocha (Bessie), Meg Gibson (Leah), John C. Vennema (Tom) and Glen Pearson (Pianist).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick Stewart with Frances Conroy as his first wife and Kali Rocha as his daughter in "The Ride Down Mount Morgan" at the Public Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RIDE DOWN MOUNT MORGAN, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: PAPP, JOSEPH, PUBLIC THEATER/NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL

ORGANIZATION: PAPP, JOSEPH, PUBLIC THEATER/NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (93%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); POLYGAMY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); FESTIVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: MILLER, ARTHUR; BRANTLEY, BEN; ESBJORNSON, DAVID RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



437 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE MARK GAINS. The dollar was lower as tension eased in the Middle East and uncertainty continued about further reductions in interest rates. In New York, the dollar settled at 1.6677 marks, down from 1.6841 marks late Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German mark to the dollar, since May, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (74%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; IRAQ; UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (74%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



438 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
German Giants Spinning Off Big Businesses

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 16

 BODY:
The streamlining of corporate Germany, which has been under way in fits and starts for several years, has accelerated. In the last two weeks, three of the biggest conglomerates have announced plans to spin off huge chunks of their empires, which employ tens of thousands of people.
First came Siemens A.G., the giant electronics and engineering company, which announced on Nov. 4 that it would spin off businesses accounting for more than $10 billion of its $70 billion in annual sales and with that, 60,000 workers. 
 Then Viag A.G., which owns everything from electric utilities to chemical plants. announced plans on Nov. 9 to sell companies with about $9 billion in revenue and 13,000 workers.
And last Friday, the nation's biggest retailing company said it too would slim down. Metro A.G., which is second only to Wal-Mart as an owner of stores, said it would sell a collection of chains that generate $9.6 billion in sales and employ 34,000 people.
Three companies do not necessarily add up to a trend, and each company was motivated by different reasons. But analysts said the flurry of revamping reflected growing pressure on European conglomerates to shed businesses that drag down overall profit.
"Each case is specific, of course," said Mark Davies-Jones of Salomon Smith Barney in London. "But I think there is a general trend, as well. What we are seeing are the effects of globalization, both of their markets and of their investor base."
Until recently, most of the restructuring in German industry has been achieved through cost-cutting. Textile companies like Hugo Boss shifted production to low-wage countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. Machine-tool and engineering companies made their assembly lines more efficient and flexible. Steel companies merged and shut down factories. Banks have begun merging and closing branches.
Only a handful of companies have rethought their central strategies. Daimler, which just completed the takeover of Chrysler, abandoned unsuccessful acquisitions in aircraft, insurance and other industries.
Veba A.G., a conglomerate involved in chemicals, packaging, telecommunications and electric-power generating, has sold scores of small businesses since 1993. This year alone, it is spinning off businesses with sales of more than $5 billion.
Hoechst A.G. has been trying to put itself through a more radical transformation, though its success so far has been mixed at best. The company, based here, is selling or spinning off its chemicals businesses while pushing further into pharmaceuticals and buying its way into agricultural products.
More companies are listing shares in the United States or borrowing money in international bond markets.
Siemens, based in Munich, had been frustrating investors for years with mediocre profits. With businesses as far flung as semiconductors, mobile phones, power-plant construction and medical-imaging equipment, the company has been trying to shave costs and streamline its organization.
But while Siemens abandoned businesses in dental equipment, military electronics and personal computers, analysts complained that it had never confronted its structural problems.
That changed two weeks ago, when Heinrich von Pierer, the Siemens chairman, announced plans to spin off units with one-seventh of the company's 416,000 employees, including the chip-making division. It marked a big departure from past strategy: Siemens had always argued that it had to have a strong presence in computer chips if it was going to succeed as a maker of electronic equipment that relied on such chips.
The reorganization at Metro A.G., based in Cologne, was also drastic. The company owns a vast array of retailing companies, from department stores and discount warehouses to chains of shoe stores.
Two years ago, Metro typified the push toward sheer bigness by merging with two other large retailers. But analysts said that the combinations turned out to be disappointing and that competition was intensifying.
In an abrupt reversal, the company announced it would spin off divisions accounting for about a sixth of its $38 billion in sales. Those businesses are to be folded into a new holding company that will be organized by Deutsche Bank. The idea is to then list as many as six of these companies on the stock exchange.
For Metro, the move is an attempt to refocus its capital on its supermarkets and hypermarkets as European retailers cross national borders. Analysts said the move was also a response to bruising new competition, including from Wal-Mart.
"Retailing is one of the last segments to go international," said Nick Jones of Goldman, Sachs in London. "A lot of retailers, within and without Germany, have growth ambitions. As individual subsections of the industry become more and more concentrated, companies are either forced to keep diversifying or to go abroad."
In Metro's case, diversification seemed to bring confusion rather than strength. "The conglomerate didn't evolve as part of a coherent strategy," Mr. Jones said. "There was no guiding principle behind it."
Metro is now expected to concentrate on such businesses as its Galeria department stores, Saturn electronics dealers and Praktiker home-improvement stores.
Some experts caution that German companies are not necessarily embracing Wall Street pieties about increasing "shareholder value."
That may be the case with Viag, which announced plans to spin off its interests in logistics services, shipping and steel-trading businesses that have sales of about $9 billion. Viag has annual sales of about $30 billion.
But Lynn Reinhardt, head of equity research in Merrill Lynch's Frankfurt office, maintained that the moves primarily reflected the change in leadership at Viag, where Wilhelm Simson became chairman in July. And some of the changes were practical: Viag's decision to sell its 30 percent stake in a shipping company called Kuhne & Nagel came after it failed to persuade the company's controlling shareholder to sell his stake.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (85%); SIE (LSE) (85%); SIE (FRA) (85%); SIE (BIT) (85%); SI (NYSE) (85%); EOAN (FRA) (84%); EOAN (BIT) (84%); MEO3 (FRA) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (69%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (69%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (69%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (69%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG; VIAG AG; METRO AG SIEMENS AG (85%); E.ON SE (84%); METRO AG (69%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIEMENS AG; VIAG AG; METRO AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (91%); TRENDS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); TEXTILE MFG (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TEXTILES (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); BONDS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (53%); AVIATION INSURANCE (50%); AIRCRAFT INSURANCE (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



439 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: A Weak Tobacco Deal

 BODY:
The deal negotiated by eight state attorneys general and the tobacco industry would do far too little to combat teen-age smoking, the primary goal that any legal settlement should advance. Instead, this proposal is mostly a financial agreement in which the companies would pay off state lawsuits for Medicaid costs incurred for smoking-related diseases. The states that were not at the negotiating table have been given until Friday to accept the settlement. That is an unreasonably short time for the public to review a deal of this magnitude. At a minimum, there needs to be opportunity for comment and input from health experts.
For small states, a quick settlement may be hard to resist. But for big states like New York and California, which are both participants, giving up the right to sue -- a condition of the settlement -- means handing over to the tobacco industry the big legal cudgel it fears most. Many observers believe the industry would not have agreed to any deal without the two big states' participation. 
 New York State's Attorney General, Dennis Vacco, helped negotiate the proposed settlement, which could reportedly bring the state $25 billion over 25 years. The money is enticing, but the deal, which has not been subject to any public debate, does not look good enough for New York to abandon its lawsuit. Although Mr. Vacco has the power to make this deal, the lawsuit cannot be withdrawn until the court overseeing the case approves the settlement. There is good reason for public health advocates to argue before the court that the public should have some say in whether New York goes forward with this deal.
The odd political circumstances also militate against a rush to settlement. Eliot Spitzer, who is locked in a tight election vote count with Mr. Vacco and may yet win the New York State Attorney General's office, is one of those who opposes the settlement as too lax on public health measures.
The proposal would pay the states roughly $206 billion over 25 years. Minnesota, Florida, Texas and Mississippi, which have already settled their suits for a total of more than $40 billion, would not be part of this deal. Apart from the money, the industry would agree to some advertising restrictions, such as bans on billboard ads and promotional gifts. The plan would set up a foundation to reduce teen-age smoking and offer funding for a smoking-cessation campaign. But these measures are fig leaves for a plan that would have very little impact on tobacco use. Tobacco companies would have no trouble shifting the nearly $6 billion a year they spend on marketing to formats that are not prohibited.
The total settlement is expected to raise cigarette prices by 35 cents per pack over five years. Health economists argue that the cost must increase by $1.50 to $2 a pack to have a significant impact. The plan contains no industry penalties if teen-agers' consumption continues to rise. New data show that youth smoking has soared in the past decade, a reflection of tobacco marketing efforts. The plan's elements are not ambitious enough to attack this trend. Significantly, the public health community was not allowed at the negotiating table.
If the states reject the deal, they can still seek individual settlements. Indeed, Minnesota achieved a substantial settlement on its own. It will receive $6.1 billion, along with a billboard and promotional product ban, a ban on placing tobacco products in movies shown nationwide, more lobbying disclosure and a decree banning industry misrepresentation of health risks. Evidence from the Minnesota trial, which forced the industry to settle, will be useful in trials elsewhere. There is something to be said for a uniform nationwide deal. But the health-related benefits must be greater than what Mr. Vacco has bargained for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOBACCO COS (62%); MEDICAID (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDITORIALS; STATES (US); ATTORNEYS GENERAL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); LITIGATION (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); SMOKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (84%); MEDICAID (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: VACCO, DENNIS C (ATTY GEN) ELIOT SPITZER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



440 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Slate's Coverage of Microsoft Trial Is Proving Difficult

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
When Michael Kinsley -- editor of the on-line magazine Slate, which is owned by the Microsoft Corporation -- first heard that Microsoft was going to trial in an antitrust lawsuit filed by the Justice Department, he knew he would not emerge unscathed. How does a magazine owned by a giant corporation cover its parent's antitrust trial? 
 "My initial thought was 'Can we get away with skipping it?' " Mr. Kinsley said. But he felt he would disappoint readers if he did not cover some aspects of the trial. Mr. Kinsley hired the rapier-witted journalist and author Michael Lewis to post his impressions from Washington.
On Oct. 19, Mr. Lewis fired off his first tart dispatch. He wrote that Microsoft's chairman, William H. Gates, looked in his videotaped testimony "as if he had swallowed a bad oyster." He continued, "I doubt any sane and reasonable man could come away from today thinking anything but that Microsoft is guilty of many awful things, and if those things aren't strictly illegal, they should be."
Mr. Lewis's correspondence seemed mightily unfettered by Microsoft. He referred to a Microsoft lawyer, John Warden, as "a great Hogarthian ball of pink flesh with jowls that ripple over his white, starched shirt." Mr. Lewis dismissed the "ineptitude" of the Microsoft lawyers. In his last missive on Nov. 5, he described another Microsoft lawyer as having "the warmth of a corpse." He added, "If the courtroom population were asked to vote who in the chamber was most likely to be a vampire, he'd win."
Mr. Kinsley joked about the close relationship between Slate and Microsoft in his regular letter from the editor. On Oct. 23, he posted a disclaimer of sorts in his weekly "Read Me" column: "Mr. Lewis's views do not reflect those of Slate magazine, its editors, or its advertisers. Especially its editors."
His disclaimer set the press critics in motion. The New York Observer pointed out how difficult it was for Slate to cover the trial and keep the "whole enterprise honest when that doesn't interfere with the mother corporation's interests."
Then, after the "vampire" salvo, Mr. Lewis resigned. The Internet magazine Salon published an article last week suggesting that higher powers at Microsoft had asked for Mr. Lewis's resignation. Readers of Slate began to E-mail in complaints.
Mr. Lewis, who is a contributor to The New York Times Magazine, said yesterday that he and Mr. Kinsley had long ago agreed that he would only write the column for a limited time, and that he intended to return to work on a book about Silicon Valley to be published next year. Mr. Lewis pointed out that "there were so many conflicts of interests here it was impossible to keep track of them, to be honest."
Mr. Kinsley said that he had tried to solve the problem by asking Mr. Lewis to write the impressionistic essays for which Mr. Lewis is well known, rather than straight reporting.
Mr. Lewis was replaced on Nov. 10 by Herbert Stein, the former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. Mr. Stein -- who opened his first column with a lengthy, drowsy football metaphor -- wrote only two columns, turning it over last Friday to Jodie T. Allen, Slate's Washington editor. Ms. Allen began her column by announcing her fidelity to Microsoft: "I will not pretend to be an objective observer of the Microsoft trial. You wouldn't believe me if I did."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB LITIGATION (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WITNESSES (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); 

PERSON: KINSLEY, MICHAEL; LEWIS, MICHAEL; GATES, BILL (WILLIAM H) BILL GATES (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



441 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Two Depart at Fox and Universal After TV and Film Setbacks;
Shifting Priorities Lead To Biondi's Dismissal

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Frank Biondi Jr., the Seagram Company's highest-ranking Hollywood executive and chairman of Universal Studios, was ousted today by Seagram's chief executive, Edgar Bronfman Jr., who said he would take more hands-on control of the company's growing entertainment operations.
Mr. Biondi will be replaced by his No. 2, Ron Meyer, the president and chief operating officer at Universal, who will report directly to Mr. Bronfman. Under the arrangement, Mr. Meyer will oversee three of Universal's entertainment businesses: movies, television and theme parks. Sepa rately, Doug Morris, chairman of Universal's music business, will also report to Mr. Bronfman. 
Mr. Bronfman said in a telephone interview that the shifts would help the company run more smoothly as it neared completion of its $10.4 billion purchase of Polygram N.V., the world's largest music company. That purchase -- coupled with Mr. Bronfman's decision last year to sell most of Universal's television assets to Barry Diller's USA Networks -- seriously diminished the power of Mr. Biondi, a respected figure on Wall Street. Mr. Bronfman personally negotiated the Polygram deal and has a personal and active interest in music.
"Strategically, the company has taken a couple of very significant turns since Frank joined them," said Jeffrey Logsdon, an analyst at the Seidler Companies. He said Mr. Bronfman's company was seeking to turn into the dominant player in the music world and was increasingly emphasizing theme parks in its expansion efforts.
"These are not businesses that Frank had a great deal of experience with coming into the job," Mr. Logsdon said. In fact, Mr. Biondi's expertise, in previous top jobs at Viacom Inc. and Home Box Office, a unit of Time Warner Inc., was in television and cable.
Mr. Bronfman said the company had completed most of its significant expansion efforts in entertainment.
Responding to a question, Mr. Bronfman said he had been thinking about removing Mr. Biondi for a while. "I thought this was the best way to do it," he said. "It was the right way to structure the company." Mr. Bronfman added that he personally had "more confidence to manage the business more actively and productively as a result of three and a half years here."
He added, "The closure of the Polygram transaction is really the final step of Seagram's transformation into an operating company which is a leader in the field of entertainment and spirits and wine."
Mr. Bronfman said that his focus in the last few years had been deals -- he called them "asset transformation" -- involving areas such as music and televsion. "It's been a large and, I think, pretty dramatic series of asset transformations," Mr. Bronfman said. "Those asset transformations are behind us now."
Asked about the past confusion in the entertainment business about who does what at Seagram -- and the seemingly overlapping responsibilities between Mr. Meyer, Mr. Biondi and even Mr. Bronfman -- the 43-year-old scion of the Bronfman family fortune replied tartly, "There's really room for one C.E.O., and it's me."
As to Universal's sluggish movie division, and the disappointing opening over the weekend of "Meet Joe Black," Mr. Bronfman said, "There's no question we've had a disappointing year, although I have confidence in 'Meet Joe Black.' " He said Universal's slate of coming films "is looking pretty good in the next couple of quarters."
Mr. Biondi, 53, is expected to leave with a severance package as high as $30 million. He was similarly forced out of Viacom in 1996 after its chairman, Sumner M. Redstone, said he wanted to take a larger role in day-to-day operations.
Mr. Biondi said in an interview that he held no bitterness toward Mr. Bronfman. "Edgar said he wanted to be more hands on," Mr. Biondi said. "It's his company, and that's his prerogative." He added, "In some respects, it really wasn't a surprise."
Mr. Biondi said his job had changed considerably and unexpectedly since he took over Universal, formerly MCA Inc., three years ago.
"This is not really what I signed up for," Mr. Biondi said. "The company has been changed. The job has been changed. Assets have been sold. Assets have been bought. Line reporting has been changed."
Mr. Biondi said of Mr. Bronfman: "His family is the controlling shareholder, and he's the C.E.O. He can do it. These things happen. They treated me better than fine."
Mr. Biondi, who said he had no immediate job plans, added that Mr. Bronfman "has a lot riding on Polygram and making Universal continue to grow." He added that Universal would have "a sensational year and, hopefully, film performance will improve." Actually, Mr. Biondi barely focused on the troubled film side, leaving decision-making to Mr. Meyer and Casey Silver, the studio chairman.
Shares of Seagram fell 25 cents today, to $34.0625. The company's shares have dropped from about $45 in May, partly because of Seagram's downturn in its liquor business in Asia, the result of economic turmoil.
Although Universal's music division has revived under Mr. Morris, the movie side and, in some cases, the corporate hierarchy, had been besieged in the last two years by executive turnover. At the same time, Universal seemed to be floating listlessly, until the Polygram deal, without a viable strategy.
The Seagram's announcement also said that two other divisions -- the Spirits and Wine Group and Chateau and Estate Wines -- would also report to Mr. Bronfman.
"Our decision to acquire Polygram N.V., coupled with our ongoing commitment to maximize shareholder value, led us to critically examine Universal's existing structure and operations," Mr. Bronfman said in a statement. "As a result of that evaluation, we have implemented today's changes."
Mr. Meyer essentially replaces Mr. Biondi, but not in title. A well-liked figure in the movie business, Mr. Meyer was one of the founders of the Creative Artists Agency with Michael Ovitz and several others. "Ron Meyer has proven himself as one of the industry's most effective executives at managing and developing talent across entertainment sectors," Mr. Bronfman said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (81%); VIA (NASDAQ) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL STUDIOS INC SEAGRAM CO LTD (91%); TIME WARNER INC (81%); POLYGRAM NV (69%); SEIDLER COS INC (67%); VIACOM INC (65%); HOME BOX OFFICE INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL STUDIOS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (90%); FILM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); RECORD INDUSTRY (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BIONDI, FRANK JR; MORRIS, DOUG; MEYER, RON; BRONFMAN, EDGAR JR EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (93%); RON MEYER (88%); DOUG MORRIS (73%); BARRY DILLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



442 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Registers Fourth Drop in Five Months

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Industrial production unexpectedly fell in October, the fourth drop in five months, prompting many analysts to predict that the Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel will cut interest rates again at its meeting on Tuesday.
Industrial production declined one-tenth of a percent last month, reflecting falling production at utilities and mines and a small rebound from the previous month's drop in factory output, according to Fed figures released today. In September, industrial production fell five-tenths of a percent. 
 The plant-use rate, which tracks the amount of industrial capacity in use, declined for the third consecutive month. The drop to 80.6 percent in October from 81 percent in September left the reading at its lowest level since September 1992. Economists were expecting a rise of two-tenths of a percent in October production and a plant-use rate of 81 percent.
While manufacturing output rose three-tenths of a percent last month, that came after a decline of six-tenths of a percent in September. "The trend is flat at best," said Astrid Adolfson, an economist at MCM Moneywatch in New York. She is predicting that the Federal Open Market Committee will again cut interest rates because Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, "is focused on the global situation -- and that hasn't changed."
The committee meets on Tuesday, and many investors and analysts expect a quarter-point reduction in the overnight bank lending rate. The Fed has cut the target rate for overnight loans by 50 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, in two steps since the end of September, responding to concerns about a worldwide credit squeeze.
Industrial production fell one-tenth of a percent during the third quarter, its weakest showing since a decline of more than 8 percent during the first quarter of 1991 at the end of the 1990-91 recession, Fed statistics showed.
Economic turbulence in Asia and in emerging markets elsewhere has depressed demand and led to lower prices for industrial goods and commodities, ranging from computer chips and oil to iron and steel. The dollar's strength against the yen, meantime, has pushed down import prices for United States consumers, intensifying price competition in heavy industry. Production of nondurable goods has declined for three consecutive months.

GRAPHIC: Graphs' "Industrial Production" tracks total industrial production, seasonally adjusted, since May 1997. (Source: Federal Reserve Board); "Capacity Utilization" tracks output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, since May 1997. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); IMPORT PRICES (61%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



443 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
NETHERLANDS: 3 GUILTY OF WAR CRIMES -- In the first war crimes trial to focus on atrocities against Serbs, a United Nations tribunal found two Bosnian Muslims and a Bosnian Croat guilty of torturing and killing Serbian prisoners at the Celebici camp during the conflict in Bosnia in 1992. Hazim Delic, was sentenced to 20 years, Esad Landzo to 17 years and Zdravko Mucic to 7 years. Zenjnil Delalic, a Muslim, was acquitted. (NYT) 

RUSSIA: GERMAN AID LIKELY TO END -- On his first official trip to Russia, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany suggested that Germany is not likely to come up with more aid for Russia, noting that "Germany's financial potential has been more or less tapped." Mr. Schroder, who was scheduled to meet President Boris N. Yeltsin today, also sought to detach himself from the close personal relationship that his predecessor, Helmut Kohl, had with Mr. Yeltsin, saying that German-Russian relations should "develop independently of concrete political figures." Celestine Bohlen (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: NEW PARTY IS FORMED -- Mayor Yuri Luzhkov of Moscow, a potential presidential candidate in 2000, is forming his own political movement. Mr. Luzhkov said the new movement, to be called Fatherland, would advocate free-market principles and preserve a strong state sector in the economy, drawing "everything logical from the left and right." (AP)
 
BRITAIN: ULSTER MOVE IS REBUFFED -- Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam, left, rejected Conservative Party calls to halt the early release of prisoners while the Irish Republican Army refuses to disarm. Ms. Mowlam accused the Tory leader, William Hague, of risking the bipartisan Ulster peace effort. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: ANIMAL TESTING OF COSMETICS BANNED -- Britain became the first country in the European Union to ban the use of animals for testing cosmetic products, but the move will not block animal testing for drugs and scientific research. Last year, experiments were carried out involving 2.6 million animals, of which only 1,266 were used to test cosmetics, the Home Office said. (AP)
 
SPAIN: PRISON TERM FOR SELLING NEO-NAZI WORKS -- A court sentenced Pedro Varela, the owner of a Barcelona bookstore that sold neo-Nazi materials denying the Holocaust, to five years in jail. In the first such conviction in Spain, the court ruled that "respect for human rights is above any other individual right, even that of expression." (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
JAPAN: OKINAWA GOVERNOR LOSES ELECTION -- Okinawa's governor, who was opposed to having United States troops on the island, lost his bid for re-election following a campaign in which the American military presence became a central issue. The governor, Masahide Ota, was defeated by Keiichi Inamine, a business consultant who said he hoped to improve the island's economy. Two-thirds of the 47,000 American troops in Japan are concentrated on Okinawa. (AP)
 
NORTH KOREA: TALKS ON NUCLEAR SITE -- A United States special envoy, Charles Kartman, arrived in North Korea for talks about a suspected underground nuclear complex. The United States is demanding that he be allowed to see the site near Yongbyon. (Reuters)
 
INDONESIA: VILLAGE MASSACRES REPORTED -- Indonesian troops massacred scores of villagers in July after they raised the separatist West Papua New Guinea flag in the remote Irian Jaya province, the Sydney Morning Herald reported. After President Suharto left office, the villagers believed that if they flew the independence movement's flag for 72 hours they would be free, the newspaper said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CHINA: PRICE PAID FOR OVERSPENDING -- A Communist Party official in Tianjin has been given a suspended death sentence for spending too much -- $65,000 in public money over 14 months -- on official wining and dining. The sentence imposed on the official, Yuan Jinjin, is the most severe ever for such an offense, the Hunan Daily newspaper said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ: HUSSEIN SISTER-IN-LAW DIES -- Ahlam Barzan, the wife of Saddam Hussein's half-brother, Barzan al-Tikriti, has died of cancer at a clinic in Switzerland. Mr. Barzan resigned in August from his post as Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva. and stayed in Switzerland, prompting speculation that he might be planning to defect. Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
ZAMBIA: SUPPORT FOR NAMIBIA SEPARATISTS -- A Zambian opposition leader has announced support for rebels trying to secede in neighboring Namibia and admitted meeting with them, the Times of Zambia reported. The opposition leader, Akashambatwa Lewanika, said there was a historical basis for self-determination in the Caprivi Strip, a sliver of northeastern Namibian territory between Zambia and Botswana. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: CONSERVATIVE PARTY PICKS A LEADER -- Joe Clark, who was briefly Prime Minister almost 20 years ago, was elected leader of Canada's Conservative Party in a runoff election over the weekend. Mr. Clark will take over a party that is fifth in a five-party Parliament and more than $6 million in debt. He has rejected a motion from some members who have argued that the only way for the Conservative Party to survive is for it to merge with the western Reform Party and form a united right alternative. Anthony DePalma (NYT)
 
MEXICO: FOOD AGENCY IS CLOSED -- As a cost-cutting measure, Mexico will close down a scandal-plagued 33-year-old agency, Conasupo, which distributed subsidized food to the poor. An investigation of possible embezzlement at the agency by Raul Salinas de Gortari, the brother of the former President, was halted by President Ernesto Zedillo two years ago. Julia Preston (NYT)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of Africa showing location of the Caprivi Strip.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SERBIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (70%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

COMPANY: GEMEY MAYBELLINE GARNIER SNC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SERBIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WAR CRIMES (92%); SENTENCING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (88%); COSMETICS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TORTURE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRISONS (77%); RELIGION (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); DISARMAMENT (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); HOLOCAUST (73%); ACQUITTAL (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); PEACE PROCESS (51%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



444 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
Return to Los Angeles? N.F.L. Has Options

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
Since the Rams and the Raiders fled four seasons ago, the Los Angeles market has been a black hole for the National Football League.
While St. Louis snared the Rams and Oakland took the Raiders back, the N.F.L. has expanded to Charlotte, Jacksonville and Cleveland. 
 There is no guarantee that expansion will yield a 32d team. It should. Thirty-one is too odd. If expansion arrives, the name in the envelope may not be Los Angeles.
The winner could be Houston, whose Oilers left in 1996, and where a well-regarded bid by Bob McNair could catch the N.F.L.'s fancy. So the league has one city to play off another, and two Los Angeles bidders to play off each other. The setup could not elate the league more.
The N.F.L. does not always make the expected decision. When Baltimore and St. Louis were favorites for expansion in 1993, the league chose Jacksonville.
You never know what will happen when the owners meet on Feb. 16.
But there is hope among two high-powered Los Angeles groups that the N.F.L. feels it must return to the country's second-largest TV market.
"Deep down, the N.F.L. knows it must be in Los Angeles," Michael Ovitz, the former talent agent, said during an interview in Manhattan last week. "Los Angeles is the world's 11th-largest economy."
Ovitz's Hollywood group -- including Tom Cruise, Kevin Costner, Shaquille O'Neal and the venture capitalist Ted Forstmann -- wants to build a 77,000-seat stadium and 1.2 million-square-foot mall in Carson. If the bid fails, Ovitz will at least have a snazzy cast for a film.
Edward Roski Jr. is Ovitz's rival. Ovitz is a renowned deal maker, but he has never owned a sports team or erected a sports facility. Roski owns the Los Angeles Kings with Philip Anschutz; together they are building the downtown Staples Center that will house the Kings, the Lakers and the Clippers. Last week, Roski and Anschutz exercised an option to buy 25 percent of the Lakers.
His plan is to gut the innards of the 75-year-old Los Angeles Coliseum, keep the familiar exterior, and rebuild it into a 67,000-seat stadium with dandy sightlines.
"It would be a defining stadium for the N.F.L.," Roski said.
To win hearts and votes, Roski must overcome the owners' residual distaste for the Coliseum's inner-city neighborhood, which is part of Exposition Park and adjacent to the University of Southern California.
"The area has changed," Roski said. "Close to $6 billion has been invested in the area the last four or five years."
Roski would also have to sell the Silverton Hotel Casino in Las Vegas, Nev. Last week, The Los Angeles Times reported that he owned the casino. N.F.L. rules prohibit casino ownership.
"If that's the rule, I'll accept it and live within it," Roski said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Ovitz's plan -- which began as a discussion with the real estate developer Herbert Glimcher about a mall -- is to create a new experience, with a Mission-style stadium with bells that would ring after a home-team touchdown.
"It's up to the owners to see if they want to go back to where they've been," Ovitz said. "What works in Los Angeles is something new, fresh and exciting."
Both men say their sites would be the most central and most reachable on Sunday afternoons. Ovitz said Carson is 10 minutes from downtown, 25 from Beverly Hills and 35 from Pasadena. Six million people live within 20 minutes of Carson, he said.
"All major freeways come right to the area," Ovitz said.
Roski rejected the Carson site for his arena because it is a landfill that needs a state-approved $35 million cleanup.
"It'll take time and money," Ovitz said. "There's no flat land in L.A. without something dumped on it."
Roski said: "At the Coliseum, we don't have to face an environmental process. All the infrastructure work is done. We don't have to buy the land."
The team will cost Ovitz, Roski or McNair plenty. Thanks to the $70 million a year that each team will get from CBS, ABC, Fox and ESPN, the N.F.L. can justify the $530 million that Al Lerner paid for the Browns.
"They've told us it won't be less than Cleveland," said Roski, who would own at least half the team and stadium.
McNair loaded up for the purchase last week by selling the bulk of his power company, Cogen Technologies, for $1.1 billion and $350 million in assumed debt.
It may not matter that Los Angeles and Houston fans did not mourn for their lost teams as Browns fans did. What may matter is the moneyed enthusiasm of the bidders, who will be happy to force their cash upon the N.F.L.'s owners.
 
Airwaves
 Viewers missed seeing Kansas State's Darnell McDonald catch the winning touchdown during Saturday's game against Nebraska because ABC's cameraman followed quarterback Michael Bishop's fake instead of the pass, which was seen in replays. ABC's crews are being staffed by nonunion workers during a lockout of unionized technicians and electricians. . . . Fox Sports is discussing making a bid for the Indianapolis 500 TV package -- which includes the Brickyard 400 and 10 Indy Racing League events -- that is ABC's through 1999. . . . "Real Sports" on HBO tonight features Bryant Gumbel's searing interview of golfer John Daly about his struggle to beat alcohol addiction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); ST LOUIS RAMS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (93%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (93%); TENNESSEE OILERS (57%); HOUSTON OILERS (57%); HOUSTON OILERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE ST LOUIS RAMS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (93%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (93%); TENNESSEE OILERS (57%); HOUSTON OILERS (57%); HOUSTON OILERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CITY LIFE (69%); CASINOS (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (56%); TOM CRUISE (50%); PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



445 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: A Move to Increase Research in the Region

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
Hoping to recapture the New York region's pre-eminence as America's center of medical and biological research, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is expected to announce today that the city will commit $12 million to a major research study on cancer that will involve 300,000 residents whose health and lifestyle will be tracked for two decades.
The study, called the New York Cancer Project, is the first major initiative of a newly created consortium of the region's 25 leading medical schools, hospitals and academic institutes. They have been longtime rivals but are now eager to take advantage of a boom in Federal grant-giving and to lure the nation's best scientists to the region. 
 During the last 15 years, New York State has slipped from its perch as the top recipient of grants from the National Institutes of Health, the country's largest and most prestigious source of biomedical research money. New York is now third behind California and Massachusetts. New York City is second behind Boston.
New York's turf-conscious medical and academic establishment for years paid little notice to the decline. But it was jolted into action when the Federal Government recently announced that it would double the N.I.H. research budget during the next five years.
"For the first time," Mayor Giuliani said, "the city is providing seed money that will launch a major cancer research project that will bring together the unparalleled resources of New York City's medical community in the fight against cancer." Officials said every member of the consortium would play a role in the cancer project, with each institution contributing its expertise.
"It is the perfect project to ask for the cooperation and collaboration of all the institutions because it's quite clear that no one institution could accomplish the ambitious goal they have in place," said Dr. Arnold Levine, president of Rockefeller University, which will work on the identification of new genes that predispose people to cancer and develop ways to prevent the cancer.
The cancer project, which appears to be the largest population-based study in the nation, is unique among such studies because of its size and scope, officials said. The study will include the collection of blood and urine samples, extensive face-to-face questioning of participants about their health behavior and an intensive public education campaign about cancer.
"That sounds very big to me," said Dr. Brenda Edwards, the associate director for cancer surveillance research at the National Cancer Institute, which is part of the N.I.H. and sets aside 80 percent of its budget for external grants. "I would think they are positioning themselves to be very competitive."
The New York cancer study is one of a number of long-term, population-based studies under way across the country. Others have recruited a smaller number of people.
A model for the New York project is the Framingham Heart Study, which has followed the health of more than 5,000 residents in a middle-class Boston suburb for 50 years, and in doing so, advanced the nation's knowledge of heart disease.
With cancer expected in a few years to overtake heart disease as the leading cause of death, the New York study will follow residents to see which ones develop cancer and which ones do not.
Because of the city's richly diverse population, the project is expected to yield new findings about the genetic and environmental factors related to various types of cancers and other diseases, and lead to better methods for early detection and treatment.
"We will be able to look at whatever cancers are most prevalent in ethnic groups and try to understand why that's the case so we can ultimately develop treatment," said Dr. Maria K. Mitchell, the president of the consortium and a former chairwoman of the Health and Hospitals Corporation board. "Historically, a lot of research has been done in more homogeneous groups."
The project will take place in two stages, with the first phase seeking to recruit 5,000 healthy New York City residents for an initial two-year period. The project will then grow to include 300,000 New Yorkers.
The huge volume of information from study participants, whose ages will range from 35 to 64, will be overseen by the consortium, which was formed a year and a half ago as Amdec, for the Academic Medicine Development Company. The date will be kept at the various institutions.
One of the biggest challenges will be finding recruits and keeping them involved for 20 years, Dr. Mitchell said. Residents, who will receive a $50 stipend for signing up, are to be recruited through employers, health care centers and community organizations.
City officials anticipate that the cancer project will have substantial economic benefits to the city, generating $500 million over the life of the 20-year project. The city's investment of $12 million from the Economic Development Corporation for a two-year pilot project is likely to lead to $200 million from the Federal Government to finance the full term of the project.
In addition, hundreds of millions of dollars in financing is expected from philanthropic foundations, businesses, large drug companies and venture capital.
The hope is that the project also will reverse trends that have led to only 86 of the top 1,300 biotech companies calling New York State home, and resulted in New York City having the lowest growth rate in biomedical research financing of any of the nation's top 10 metropolitan areas.
In New York City alone, the biomedical sector directly employs 32,000 people, with 16,600 New Yorkers employed elsewhere throughout the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (74%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (74%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CANCER; RESEARCH; LIFE STYLES MEDICAL RESEARCH (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CANCER (90%); ONCOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CANCER HOSPITALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



446 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Back Above 9,000 on Expectations of Fed Rate Cut

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices rose yesterday, pushing at least one key measure to a level not seen since late July, on hopes that the Federal Reserve Board will lower interest rates at a policy-making meeting in Washington today.
Optimism about another cut in the overnight Federal funds rate persists even though recent data show the economy remains healthy. 
 "I think equity investors are conditioned for a friendly Fed policy," said Bob Gasser, head of block trading at J. P. Morgan & Company. Although improved, "fixed-income markets are still suffering from a lack of liquidity," he added.
Stocks were also helped yesterday by news of a new Japanese stimulus plan, this one a huge $195 billion package of tax cuts, spending and lending measures intended to help ratchet the world's second-largest economy out of a deep malaise.
Stocks opened sharply higher, lost much of their gains by early afternoon and then had a late rally.
At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 91.66 points, or 1.03 percent, at 9,011.25. It was the blue-chip average's first close above 9,000 since July 30. Despite its sharp plunge in August and September, the Dow average is now up nearly 14 percent this year.
Broader market indexes also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 10.15 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,135.87. The Nasdaq composite index rose 13.69 points, or 0.74 percent, to 1,861.68. And the Russell 2000 index of mostly small-capitalization companies gained 1.06, or 0.27 percent, to 390.42.
Expectations of another rate cut helped push up shares of banks and other financial service companies. And the possibility that Japan and Asia might be over the worst of their problems helped buoy big exporters and multinational companies.
"The Japanese have always believed that no action is better than lots of action, but they are moving fast," said Jack Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest Inc.
Toting up all the stimulative measures Tokyo has announced this year, Mr. Shaughnessy said the amount equaled "more than 7 percent of their gross domestic product."
"That is a big number," he said. "They are hyperactive now."
Among financial stocks, Merrill Lynch rose 1 1/2, to 63 1/2. American Express, a Dow stock, gained 2 3/8, to 96 15/16. And J. P. Morgan, another Dow stock, closed at 103 1/2, up 1 5/8.
While economic data seem to argue against a rate cut, another such move would be consistent with recent actions by other central banks.
Since the start of November, monetary authorities in 13 countries have moved to lower interest rates, analysts at the ISI Group noted in a letter to clients yesterday.
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, a big exporter, was the Dow's biggest gainer yesterday, rising 3 1/4, to 80 1/16.
Other big exporters and multinational companies also did well.
General Electric was up 2, to 90 3/16. Intel gained 3 1/8, to 106 7/8. And communication equipment makers rose on expectations that a revived Japanese economy might increase Asian demand for their products. Cisco Systems rose 2 1/4, to 661 5/16. And Lucent Technologies was up 1 5/8, to 85 1/4.
"There would be a pullback in the market if the Fed does not vote to ease," Mr. Shaughnessy said, "and the need is not as compelling as it was a month ago.
"But if they don't go in November, I think they will move in December, and again in January."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
Treasury Prices Drop
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell for the first time in more than a week yesterday, as some investors fretted that the Federal Reserve's policy-setting Open Market Committee might refrain from cutting interest rates when it meets today.
"The call for tomorrow is a lot closer than it was a few weeks back," Jerry Zukowski, an economist at Paine Webber Inc., said yesterday.
The 30-year bond fell 2 1/32, to 99 15/32, sending its yield to 5.29 percent, from 5.24 percent on Friday. Yields on two-year notes, the most actively traded Treasuries and among those most sensitive to expectations about Fed policy, rose 5 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.56 percent.
Rates on short-term Treasury securities fell in yesterday's auction.
The Treasury Department sold $8 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.400 percent, down from 4.470 percent last week. An additional $8 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 4.430 percent, down from 4.500 percent. Following are the auction results:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.888	97.760	High Rate	4.40%	4.43%	Coupon Yield	4.51%	4.59%	Low Rate	4.36%	4.35%	Median Rate	4.39%	4.40%	Total applied for	$35,410,892	$28,744,618	Accepted	$11,607,309	$11,863,858	Noncompetitive	$1,245,713	$1,118,438	
 
Both issues are dated Nov. 19, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 18, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on May 20, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: RUSSELL 2,000 STOCK INDEX; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); 3M CO (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUSSELL 2,000 STOCK INDEX; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JACK SHAUGHNESSY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



447 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1805 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Influencing Doctor's Orders

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly souping up their advertising for prescription drugs in a style more commonly associated with products sold from open shelves in drugstores and supermarkets.
Consider the blowups of Joan Lunden, a former host of ABC's "Good Morning America," elbowing aside other drugstore displays in a promotion for Claritin, an allergy treatment. Ms. Lunden is also featured in television commercials for the drug -- the first TV celebrity endorsement of a prescription drug. 
 The Schering-Plough Corporation, which makes Claritin, has even handed out leaflets inviting customers to try Claritin and enter a contest to win a vacation in Hawaii.
Merck & Company has also joined the promotional fray, offering a money-back guarantee in full-page newspaper ads to customers who are not satisfied with Zocor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, after six months. Pharmaceutical analysts said the offer was yet another first for prescription drug advertising.
Spending on consumer advertising has exploded since the Food and Drug Administration in August 1997 loosened longstanding restraints on television commercials for prescription drugs. Consumer advertising for prescription drugs rose to $100 million a month this year, almost five times the total only three years ago, according to Competitive Media Reporting, a marketing research firm. The ads have paid off for a number of drugs, particularly allergy treatments, whose sales have surged.
But the demand generated by consumer advertising has raised questions about how such ads are changing the practice of medicine. Some physicians contend that the ads artificially stoke demand for the most expensive treatments and waste time for both patients and doctors. And insurers complain that the demand is inflating their pharmaceutical budgets.
Nearly 3 patients in 10 who had taken any prescription drug said they had talked with their doctors about a drug they saw advertised, according to a survey of 2,015 people in June by Louis Harris & Associates for the Harvard School of Public Health, Andersen Consulting and London & Associates. But only 40 percent said the doctor had prescribed the drug they had discussed.
"The Harvard study means half the effort caused by the advertising is probably wasting the doctor's time and wasting expense within the H.M.O., which drives up the cost for everybody," said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical management and economics at the University of Minnesota.
The most successful ads have been for treatments for allergies, stomach problems, impotence -- conditions that are apparent to the sufferers, unlike, say, high blood pressure.
Indeed, sales of three allergy treatments -- Claritin, Hoechst Marion Roussel Inc.'s Allegra and Pfizer Inc.'s Zyrtec -- have risen sharply this year, according to IMS Health, a health care information company.
Claritin was the No. 1 prescription drug advertiser in the first half of the year. Its sales rose 32 percent, to $912.5 million, for the six months from the similar period a year ago, said Neil Sweig, a Wall Street analyst at Southeast Research Partners. Allegra sales doubled to $186 million in the first half of 1998, while Zyrtec sales rose 56 percent, to $178 million.
Over the same period, spending on consumer advertising for the three products jumped 15 percent, to $132 million from the first half of 1997, before the F.D.A. lowered some barriers on commercials, according to Competitive Media Reporting.
Zyban, Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C.'s new smoking cessation treatment; Prilosec, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P.'s treatment for stomach problems, and Paxil, SmithKline Beecham P.L.C.'s antidepressant, also showed strong sales gains.
The new drug commercials are following temporary guidelines issued by the F.D.A. in August 1997. The guidelines allow drug makers to name their products and discuss their effectiveness without including a full list of possible side effects. Only doctors can prescribe the products, and the agency requires advertisers to tell consumers that they can get more information by consulting a physician, a print ad, a Web site or calling an "800" number.
Drug manufacturers say their advertisements are educating consumers and empowering them to discuss useful treatments with their doctors.
Indeed, market research surveys affirm the effectiveness of drug ads in alerting prospective customers. But no one has measured precisely how many people visited a doctor solely to ask about an advertised condition, compared with those who broached the subject during a visit scheduled for other reasons.
Still, some health care economists contend the advertising is fueling a renewed upswing in drug costs, which rose 12 to 15 percent this year and are projected to be even higher in 1999, according to Watson Wyatt, a management consulting firm.
To be sure, drug costs have also been pushed higher by the introduction of dozens of effective new drugs and the growing reluctance of embattled H.M.O.'s to anger members by denying their requests.
But ads "are essentially encouraging the more expensive drugs within a category," said Dr. Thomas Simmer, medical director of the Health Alliance Plan of the Henry Ford Health System in Detroit.
Patient visits to doctors increased 2 percent between January and September but visits for allergies rose five times as fast, said Scott-Levin, a drug marketing research firm. Looked at another way, the number who got in touch with a doctor after seeing an antihistamine ad increased to 9 percent in 1998, from 7 percent in 1997 and 5 percent in 1996, when Claritin began its consumer advertising, said Market Measures Inc., another drug market research firm.
In seven heavily advertised groups, there were 3.2 million, or 22 percent, more new patients in the first half of 1998 than the first half of '97, according to IMS Health. The areas were cholesterol problems (Pravachol), smoking cessation (Zyban), osteoporosis (Evista), hair loss (Propecia), ulcers (Prilosec), postmenopausal problems (Premarin) and depression (Prozac).
There was a cost for a doctor's time, and at least half the consultations motivated by drug ads did not result in a prescription for the drug. A recent study by Princeton Survey Research Associates for Prevention magazine said 54 million people had spoken to their doctors about a medicine they had seen advertised.
Fee-for-service physicians often charge more than $100 for a routine visit. Employers and employees often divide that cost. A visit to a managed care doctor costs less -- about $60, on average, said Gary Lin, an actuary with Watson Wyatt, ranging from $40 in a health maintenance organization in Minneapolis to $70 in some New York health plans.
And insurers say that growing demand for heavily advertised drugs is inflating health plan pharmaceutical budgets. "Except for antibiotics, we are spending more money on runny noses than anything else," said Mark DiGiorgio, a spokesman for Cigna Healthcare, a big health maintenance organization. It spends 10 percent of its $250 million pharmacy budget for allergy and sinus drugs, a Wall Street analyst estimated.
Some employers and health plans plan to buck the trend by paying for only 60 percent of the price of expensive, advertised drugs in some cases, if other equally effective, less costly drugs are available, said Helen Darling, a health care expert with Watson Wyatt. Health plans typically pay all but a nominal amount for drugs on their approved lists.
A daily dose of Claritin, Allegra or Zyrtec can cost $2 or more, while Tavist, an over-the-counter allergy treatment costs about 96 cents a day, pharmacists said. (Tavist, made by Novartis, is more likely to cause drowsiness.)
Spokesmen for drug makers and advertisers say that many medicines, however costly, reduce costs by keeping patients out of hospitals.
"We are all eager to attempt to address the major problems -- underdiagnosis and undertreatment of disease," said Alan F. Holmer, president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association, a trade group. "All the consumer ads are doing is to empower the patients so they can have a more informed conversation with their doctors."
And such conversations can have unexpected benefits. The study by Prevention also showed that 1 in 20 patients who spoke to a doctor about an advertised medicine were found to have a different problem that might otherwise have gone untreated.
If advertising "leads to a discussion, that's fine," said Dr. Phil R. Manning, an associate vice president of health affairs at the University of Southern California. But he is concerned that insistent demands by patients "open the door to injudicious use of certain drugs."
Indeed, almost 3 in 10 respondents in a recent market survey for Time Inc. said they would consider switching doctors if they did not get a prescription they requested. Health plan officials said that some drug companies were brandishing the statistic in an unsubtle sales pitch. But Caryn Klein, associate director of research at Time, said she was not satisfied with the finding because respondents were not asked about specific drugs and maladies.
"The patient is not an educated consumer," said Dr. Brian Strom, chairman of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Pennsylvania. "The patient is really an unwitting tool of the manufacturer's marketing department."
Nancy M. Ostrove, chief of marketing practices at the F.D.A., said the agency was evaluating consumer ads to see whether they were undermining physician-patient relationships, promoting "inappropriate prescribing" or otherwise affecting public health. She said the increased costs, if any, generated by the ads were not within the F.D.A.'s purview.
The lowering of barriers to medical marketing -- once confined largely to professional journals and visits to physicians by salespeople -- has not been limited to TV.
For their blockbuster products, drug makers have Web sites where prospective customers are offered referrals to doctors, information about medical problems and personalized newsletters.
And as drug makers pursue new marketing opportunities, they are also continuing their longstanding tactic of dispatching thousands of salespeople to visit doctors.
Industry analysts expect the F.D.A. to revise the guidelines within a few months. But unless the rules are drastically tightened, aggressive campaigns to reach consumers are expected to continue, even though many physicians object.
"Pharmaceuticals are not toothpaste or types of cereal," Dr. Strom said. "If a patient isn't bothered by a problem, why create demand by driving them to the physician? We spend too much on health care. The focus nationally is on trying to reduce health costs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Direct Pitches -- Pharmaceutical companies' marketing to consumers ranges from print ads like those for Zocor and an alternative to Viagra to television commercials for Claritin that feature Joan Lunden.
 
Chart: "Promoting Growth"
Consumer advertising techniques, permitted by regulators since August 1997, have bolstered sales more readily for drugs that treat conditions that are more apparent to the sufferers, like allergies and hair loss.
 
Advertising figures for Jan.-Aug.; sales figures for Jan.-June (in millions)

	1997 CONSUMER ADVERTISING	1997	1998	1998	1997-1998		SPENDING	SALES	CONSUMER	SALES	SALES				ADVERTISING		GROWTH				SPENDING	 	 	Claritin: Allergies	$34.2	$691.1	$74.1	$912.5	+32.0%	Schering-Plough	 	 	 	 	 	Pravachol: Cholesterol	37.0	376.5	57.8	436.5	+15.9	Bristol-Myers Squibb	 	 	 	 	 	Zyrtec: Allergies	49.6	114.3	54.5	178.1	+55.8	Pfizer	 	 	 	 	 	Propecia: Hair loss	0.0	0.0	47.6	25.7	n.a.	Merck	 	 	 	 	 	Allegra: Allergies	51.1	90.6	40.1	185.6	+104.8	Hoechst	 	 	 	 	 	Prilosec: Stomach ailments	24.6	1,060.6	33.9	1,387.7	+30.8	Astra Pharmaceuticals	 	 	 	 	 	
 
(Sources: Competitive Media Reporting; IMS Health) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (93%); MRK (NYSE) (93%); PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); ACN (NYSE) (81%); HPOL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING; FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION MERCK & CO INC (93%); PFIZER INC (85%); ACCENTURE PLC (81%); HOECHST MARION ROUSSEL INC (61%); HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (53%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING; FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ADVERTISING; FINANCES; DOCTORS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SALES; TELEVISION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ALLERGIES (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (79%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); BUDGETS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); INSURANCE (64%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (64%); HYPERTENSION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (54%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



448 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: GORE, IN MALAYSIA, SAYS ITS LEADERS SUPPRESS FREEDOM

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore today rebuked the Malaysian Government for suppressing freedom and championed the growing protest movement here as tensions between the United States and Malaysia boiled over at a meeting of Pacific Rim countries.
Standing in for President Clinton at the annual meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, Mr. Gore praised Malaysians who have rallied against Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad as brave people. 
 "Democracies have done better in coping with economic crises than nations where freedom is suppressed," Mr. Gore said in a speech. "Democracy confers a stamp of legitimacy that reforms must have in order to be effective.
"And so, among nations suffering economic crises, we continue to hear calls for democracy and reform in many languages -- people's power, doi moi, reformasi," he said, referring to the slogans of reform movements in the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia. "We hear them today -- right here, right now -- among the brave people of Malaysia."
"Reformasi," or reform, is the rallying cry of protesters who are demanding the resignation of Dr. Mahathir. The Prime Minister has been under searing criticism for ousting and imprisoning his reform-minded deputy, Anwar Ibrahim, who is on trial on corruption and sex-related charges.
 The Malaysian Government reacted angrily to the remarks early Tuesday, saying they were an incitement to unrest, Agence France-Presse reported.
 "Malaysia rejects as most unwarranted the provocative remarks made by U.S. Vice President Al Gore and the White House," a statementby Foreign Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said. "Malaysians would hold the U.S. accountable for any rupture of this harmony arising from this irresponsible incitement."
Though few people have taken to the heavily guarded streets of Kuala Lumpur this week, the Anwar case has poisoned the atmosphere at a meeting of leaders who were trying to focus on the crushing economic crisis.
Mr. Gore's broadside against his Malaysian hosts eclipsed his announcement that the United States and Japan would join in a plan to provide $10 billion in financing to help rebuild Asia's shattered banks and corporations.
The plan is the first major collaboration of the United States and Japan in confronting the Asian crisis. And it comes after the two countries sparred over lowering trade barriers.
Today, though, the rancor was entirely between the United States and Malaysia. Prime Minister Mahathir and other top Malaysian officials were in the audience during Mr. Gore's speech, and his words drew a sulfurous reaction.
"It was the most disgusting speech I've heard in my life," Trade Minister Rafidah Aziz said to a group of reporters afterward.
The ill will between the United States and Malaysia has been building since this meeting began. When Mr. Clinton, who started these gatherings six years ago, canceled his visit because of the Iraq crisis, some people here interpreted it as a convenient excuse to avoid coming to a country in disfavor.
 The speech that Mr. Gore delivered was drafted for President Clinton by the National Security Council, a senior Administration official in Washington said. But Mr. Clinton, immersed in the standoff with Iraq, did not see the speech before it was given to Mr. Gore. So it is impossible to know, the official said, whether Mr. Clinton would have delivered it as drafted -- or toned it down, something he often does in a foreign land.
 "The Vice President read it as it was written for him," another official said.
On Sunday, Ms. Rafidah clashed publicly with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who met with Mr. Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, during her 24-hour visit here.
American officials are not the only visitors who have sought to make an issue of Mr. Anwar's plight. President Joseph Estrada of the Philippines met with Mr. Anwar's wife today, and on Saturday the Canadian Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy, also met with Ms. Wan Azizah.
Dr. Mahathir has bitterly criticized visitors for meddling in Malaysia's internal affairs, and people who watched him tonight during Mr. Gore's speech said he appeared deeply offended by the Vice President's remarks.
The wording particularly stung in Malaysia because Dr. Mahathir views himself as far more savvy than President Suharto, the fallen Indonesian leader, and believes that his country has been the most advanced in Southeast Asia in promoting high technology and designing an economy to attract world markets.
Although several hundred people milled outside the convention center while Mr. Gore spoke -- a typical prelude to a demonstration in this country -- the crowd did not coalesce and it eventually dispersed. Red water-cannon trucks were parked prominently around the building.
After Mr. Gore's speech American and Japanese officials struggled to switch the focus to their new financing package. Under the terms of the plan, the United States has pledged to contribute $5 billion worth of trade financing and insurance to help bolster the efforts of Governments in Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia to recapitalize their debt-stricken banks and companies.
Another $5 billion is to be provided by a separate Asian recovery fund, officials said. Japan has agreed to commit $3 billion to that fund, which is also to include money from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Malaysia may qualify for some aid from the fund, but neither American nor Japanese officials specified it as a potential recipient.
With its emphasis on recovery rather than rescue, the proposal is in keeping with the tone of this meeting, which aside from the political pyrotechnics has been marked by subdued reflection on the costs of the Asian crisis.
President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea said his country had to bear much of the responsibility for its currency collapse in July 1997, which devastated South Korea's economy and left it within a whisker of defaulting on its loans.
"We now know why and how the crisis came," Mr. Kim said. "It was because of the collusive ties between politics and businesses, Government-controlled financing and widespread corruption."
Western business leaders exhorted Asian countries not to give up on reforming their economies. But they acknowledged that the United States and Europe bore some responsibility for the crisis.
Jon S. Corzine, the co-chairman of Goldman Sachs & Company, said developed countries must rein in the vast, unpredictable flows of capital in and out of emerging markets. Mr. Corzine even called for government regulation of hedge funds, which contribute to these sudden surges.
But after Mr. Gore's speech, it is not clear that Kuala Lumpur will be a place for earnest discussions of global finance. Asked this evening about the American commitment to provide $5 billion in financing to Asia, Ms. Rafidah said: "I don't care. To me it's not worth five cents."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia listened, Vice President Al Gore criticized his Government for suppressing democracy. (Associated Press; Reuters)(pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; KUALA LUMPUR (MALAYSIA); JAPAN; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MALAYSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; BANKS AND BANKING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



449 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS WITH IRAQ: HOUR BY HOUR;
From the Brink to the Blink: Washington's Iraq Weekend

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER and PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16

 BODY:
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen told the President to attack Iraq. Her aides said Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who was then en route to an economic summit in Malaysia, would agree.
But it was President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, serving as the conduit between the senior officials and the President, whose view prevailed. Spurred by a vague bulletin on CNN, Mr. Berger advised Mr. Clinton on Saturday morning to hold off. 
 Only minutes before hundreds of cruise missiles were to rain down on Iraq, Mr. Clinton called off what would have been the deadliest military attack of his Presidency, according to a reconstruction of this weekend's events based on interviews with several of the participants who insisted on anonymity.
"It was very close, as close as it could possibly come," Mr. Cohen said at a news conference today.
The attack was set to begin at 9 A.M. on Saturday, Eastern time. A few minutes past 8, the phone rang in Mr. Berger's Washington home. The galvanizing news came not from the Central Intelligence Agency, but CNN, reporting from Baghdad that Iraq had blinked. The Iraqis had sent a letter to the United Nations agreeing to allow weapons inspectors to resume their work.
The President would have to decide whether to call off the attack or kill an unpredictable number of Iraqis, including civilians, even as Baghdad was appearing to capitulate. Armed only with this secondhand information, Mr. Berger raced to the White House, arriving in his office in the West Wing at about 8:15 A.M.
Nobody knew what the Iraqi letter said. And even if the Iraqis had agreed to allow the arms inspections to resume, why should the United States trust them this time?
"It was touch and go," a senior Administration official said, adding, in reference to Mr. Berger: "Sandy's saying: 'Get me the text of that letter right now! Get what you can off the wires right now! We've got 60 minutes, 45 minutes left.' And the President had to sit there and stare at the phone and make the decision."
Mr. Clinton sat by a phone in his residence on the second floor of the White House. With only minutes to go, Mr. Berger called the Pentagon, the State Department and the office of Vice President Al Gore, asking all to offer advice on whether the President should delay the attack.
Mr. Berger felt that the attack should be delayed to study the Iraqi offer. Mr. Cohen thought that it should go forward, and that the Iraqi letter was too late and too confused.
Senior aides who had spoken to Ms. Albright, who was then flying to the meeting of Pacific Rim leaders, said she would also want the attack to proceed. Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview today that "all the pros and cons were discussed" and that the military had been ready to carry out the President's orders.
Administration officials said the tone of the debate among the President's security advisers was understandably tense given the time pressure, but never angry. "This was not people at one extreme or the other," a senior official said.
Aides to Mr. Clinton said that in making his decision, he was troubled by Pentagon estimates that several thousand Iraqis, including civilians, would be killed in the air strikes, a death toll far greater than from any other American military strike since the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
"Can you order a military mission that kills thousands of people if there is the possibility that your adversary is giving in to your demands?" a White House official asked. "To my mind, he had no choice but to delay this thing."
Mr. Clinton picked up the phone, called the Pentagon and aborted the attack. By the time his order reached seven B-52 bombers nearing Iraq and 14 warships in the Persian Gulf poised to fire nearly 300 cruise missiles, it was 8:45 A.M. -- 15 minutes to go until an assault that could have killed thousands of people.
Mr. Clinton realized that he was about to make war on a nation that might have just sued for peace, his aides said. "The President decided at that point to halt -- to put a pause, actually -- in the operation to see what that response was," another senior official said.
Thus began a day and a night of nonstop talks in the White House and around the world. The argument swung back and forth. The attack was rescheduled for Sunday. But after receiving assurances from the Iraqis and Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations, that the ousted weapons inspectors could return to work unhampered by President Saddam Hussein's soldiers and spies, Mr. Clinton decided that there would be no war.
His decision to call off the mission entirely came shortly after 3 A.M. Sunday.
Less than 40 hours before, Mr. Clinton had ordered the Pentagon to bombard Mr. Hussein's strongholds. "We were going to give it to him with both barrels," an official said.
Then President Hussein tossed a monkey wrench into the war machine, in the form of a four-page fax to Mr. Annan that arrived in New York at about 7:30 A.M on Saturday. A copy of the letter reached the White House at mid-morning, as the President, Mr. Gore and top national security officials convened in person and by telephone at the White House situation room. The meeting went on into late afternoon.
They studied the letter and decided that it might be another Iraqi ruse.
"The more we looked at it, the less we liked it," a senior official said. "The President said 'I'm not prepared to accept this.' "
The war plans were back on.
On Saturday afternoon, in the White House situation room, the Director of Central Intelligence, George J. Tenet, offered the C.I.A.'s opinion that if Iraq readmitted the weapons inspectors, Mr. Hussein would probably cooperate for a few days, perhaps a few weeks -- unless the inspectors found his cache of biological or chemical weapons materiel. But sooner or later, the C.I.A.'s analysts predicted, the Iraqi leader would return to his old ways of concealment and deception, blocking the inspectors' work.
On Saturday evening, two more letters arrived at the White House. They had been sent to the United Nations Security Council by the Iraqi delegate, Nizar Hamdoon. At 7:20 P.M., the Iraqis offered unconditional cooperation with the weapons inspectors. By telephone, the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, weighed in, saying Iraq should specifically renounce its Aug. 5 and Oct. 31 refusals to comply with the weapons inspectors. A second letter from the Iraqis followed at 9:06 P.M. It met Mr. Blair's demand.
At this point the United States thought that it had what it sought, an unconditional, unequivocal statement that Iraq would let the weapons inspectors do their work. But the argument continued through the night: Should the attack plans be called off? Should a lesser attack proceed? Could the Iraqis be trusted in any way, given their record of breaking agreements with the inspectors?
Mr. Clinton returned to the Oval Office shortly after 9 P.M. on Saturday. He spent most of the next five hours on the telephone with Mr. Gore, who was in Air Force Two, on his way to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; with Secretary Albright, who already had arrived there after a 20-hour trip; and with Mr. Cohen, Mr. Tenet, General Shelton, Mr. Blair and the French President, Jacques Chirac.
Ultimately, senior officials said, the consensus was that the United States could not strike Iraq if the Iraqis had essentially done what Washington had demanded.
At 3 A.M. on Sunday, Mr. Berger talked to Mr. Annan in New York, trying to make sure that they were agreed on what the Iraqis' statements meant. They agreed on the promises that Iraq had made.
A few minutes later, Mr. Berger called General Shelton at the Pentagon and transmitted an order from the President: Cancel the attack .
Now the decision had to be explained to the American people.
Senior Administration officials, including Mr. Berger, had been saying privately all week that the United Nations' weapons inspection program was essentially dead, killed by Mr. Hussein's intransigence. The weapons inspectors had not conducted a thorough search since August; 100 days had passed, allowing Mr. Hussein to hide evidence of his suspected biological and chemical weapons programs. Now the United States had to strike Iraq swiftly and severely or lose all credibility, they had argued.
Mr. Clinton evidently disagreed. On Sunday, he called the weapons inspectors' ability to return to Iraq "the best outcome" of the crisis, the saving grace of the frustrated war plans. Bombing Iraq, he argued, probably would not have achieved that result.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Navy crewmen on the aircraft carrier Eisenhower in the Persian Gulf prepared to launch F-14 and F/A-18 Hornet warplanes on Saturday just minutes before Washington called off the planned attack on Iraq. (Reuters)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; CABLE NEWS NETWORK PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (50%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; CABLE NEWS NETWORK UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); GULF STATES (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERGER, SAMUEL R; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); JAMES D SHELTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



450 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Average Tops 9,000 On Hope for a Rate Cut
Stock prices rose, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average past 9,000 for the first time since late July, on hopes the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates at today's policy-making meeting.
The Dow industrials were up 91.66 points, or 1.03 percent, at 9,011.25. Broader market indexes also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 10.16 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,135.88, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 13.69 points, or 0.74 percent, to 1,861.68. Page C13. 

G.M. expects to raise $1.5 billion from spinning off as much as 19 percent of its Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation supplier unit. C12.
 
Treasury prices fell for the first time in more than a week on uncertainty over a rate cut. The 30-year bond yield rose to 5.29 percent. C13.
 
Hewlett-Packard Exceeds Forecast
Hewlett-Packard reported a 12 percent drop in fourth-quarter earnings that nevertheless exceeded analysts' estimates. C2.
 
Industrial Production Off in October
Industrial production unexpectedly fell one-tenth of a percent in October, the fourth drop in five months. C2.
 
Two Plead Guilty in Insider Case
Two former brokers pleaded guilty to taking secret stock information, another victory for New York State prosecutors in an important insider trading case. C8.
 
Amazon.com in Holiday Expansion
Amazon.com, the on-line retailer that dominates Internet book sales and, increasingly, music, is expanding into a broader array of merchandise that includes consumer electronics, games and toys. C12.
 
Profit Slide Continues at Toys 'R' Us
Toys "R" Us, the world's biggest toy retailer, reported a 57 percent slide in third-quarter operating profit. The fall was expected because of slow sales and competition from discount chains like Wal-Mart. C2.
 
Nike Shifts to Safer Solvents
Nike said it was shifting to safer glues and solvents, so that less than 1 percent of its Asian work force now came into contact with dangerous vapors from petroleum-based solvents, a three-quarters reduction from last year. C6.
 
Skepticism Greets Japanese Plan
Although the $195 billion economic stimulus plan announced by Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan is the nation's largest ever, investors were not overly enthusiastic. They have been disappointed in Japan so many times that they are hard to impress. The benchmark Nikkei index of 225 stocks ended up 160.06 points, or a modest 1.12 percent, at 14,428.27. But critics called the package misguided. News Analysis. A7.
 
Moody's lowered Japan's top-rated credit rating because of its troubled economy. C2.
 
Telebras Spinoffs on Big Board
The 12 holding companies spun off from Brazil's telecommunications giant Telebras during its privatization in the summer began trading on the New York Stock Exchange, bolstered by the Government's rescue agreement with the I.M.F. Market Place. C12.
 
Corporate Germany Cutting Back
The streamlining of corporate Germany is accelerating, reflecting pressure to shed businesses that drag down overall profit. In the last two weeks three of the biggest conglomerates, Siemens, Viag and Metro, have announced plans for huge spinoffs of units that employ tens of thousands of people. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,011.25 up 91.66
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.29% down 0.05
The Dollar -- 120.07 yen down 2.65
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Consumer Price Index
October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.2%
 
Another graph tracks the Dow Industrials, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TELB3 (BOVESPA) (80%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (70%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (70%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (80%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (70%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); TOYS 'R' US INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); RETAILERS (86%); SOLVENTS (85%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



451 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Decides to Downgrade Its Financial Ratings for Japan

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Japan lost its top "Aaa" credit rating from Moody's Investors Service, as the nation remains mired in its worst recession in five decades.
The rating company cut Japan's foreign currency ceilings for bonds, notes and bank deposits one notch to "Aa1," as well as its rating on securities issued or guaranteed by the Government. The move indicates that Japan may not be in as solid a position to repay debts as other top-rated countries such as the United States, Germany and Britain. 
 Moody's said that the downgrade from "Aaa," which Japan had held for 17 years, reflects "uncertainties and heightened risks over the long term arising from economic and policy weaknesses that have led to sig nificant deterioration in the government's fiscal position."
Moody's downgrade -- the first of a Group of Seven nation since Canada was cut to "Aa2" in 1995 -- comes one day after the Government announced its biggest-ever economic stimulus package, about 24 trillion yen, or $197 billion, in public works spending and tax cuts.
"It's understandable that someone needed to give a black mark to Japan" after the country announced the measures, said Tetsu Aikawa, a foreign exchange manager at Sanwa Bank. "That's because Japan's budget deficit will expand."
The dollar surged after Moody's announcement, trading for 121.90 yen, up from 120.36 yen in New York trading on Monday. The announcement was made after the Japanese stock and bond markets closed for today's midday break. In the morning session, the Nikkei 225 stock index slipped 15 points, to 14,413.25, while bonds were little changed.
Asked about the Moody's downgrade, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japanese Government bonds are "the most trustworthy in the world."
Moody's placed Japan on review for downgrade on July 23. The cut gives Japan the same credit rating as Belgium, Denmark and Singapore, among others.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (71%); BELGIUM (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (71%); BELGIUM (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); TRENDS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



452 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: Livery Cabs Get the Blame For Increase in Accidents

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN and JOSH BARBANEL 

 BODY:
As taxi accidents have risen steadily in New York City over the past decade, the most recognizable image of the danger has been that of a yellow cab wrecked on a Manhattan sidewalk, debris strewn about, perhaps a pedestrian pinned against a light pole. But an analysis of newly released accident data shows that car services and livery cabs are actually responsible for the increase.
The New York Times analysis of more than 100,000 accidents reported to the state found that crashes involving livery vehicles -- which include call-for-pickup car services, corporate "black cars," some commuter vans and vans for the handicapped -- increased by 60 percent from 1990 to 1997. 
 The number of yellow-cab crashes in the city, the analysis found, has dropped significantly since 1994 after rising during the early 90's and is now only slightly above what it was at the start of the decade.
Serious injuries in yellow-cab accidents are down by more than 20 percent since 1990, even including the rash of disfiguring facial injuries caused by partitions affixed to the driver's seat since they became standard equipment in yellow cabs in 1994.
The number of livery cars has increased significantly over that period while the number of medallion cabs is up only slightly. On a per-cab basis, livery-car accidents were still up 25 percent while yellow-cab accidents were virtually the same in 1997 as in 1990.
The analysis sheds light on an overlooked sector of the transportation industry that does most of its business in the boroughs outside Manhattan and that regulators have only recently begun to take seriously, even though livery cars outnumber yellow cabs more than three to one.
The diverging trends had been hidden because the State Department of Motor Vehicles lumps all vehicles for hire together as "taxis" and because the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission did not track accidents at all from 1990 until it passed a broad package of new rules in May.
The state agency turned down repeated requests from The Times for data on individual accidents for eight months, saying that generating the data would require an extensive computer run that was beyond the requirements of the Freedom of Information Law. It finally released the data last week, but still has not furnished it to the taxi commission.
Earlier this year, the only data available from the state showed a 40 percent increase in accidents involving all "taxis" from 1990 to 1996. This, along with several high-profile yellow-cab crashes, prompted a spate of news articles, including several in The Times, and helped spur a crackdown by the city that included a ticket-writing blitz against yellow cabs and much steeper fines and insurance requirements for all kinds of taxis.
But the trends are sharply different in various parts of the city. In Manhattan south of 96th Street, where yellow cabs predominate, accidents involving all "taxis" have increased 17 percent since 1990, although in recent years the numbers have declined. But outside Manhattan, where yellow cabs are seldom seen except at the airports, accidents involving all cars classified as "taxis" have increased by 53 percent since 1990. "Taxi" accidents in Brooklyn have jumped even more dramatically, by 81 percent over the decade.
Experts and officials offered several possible explanations for the accident pattern. Livery cars, which are only allowed to pick up riders by prearrangement, have been far less regulated over the years than yellow cabs, which can cruise for fares, and several police and taxi commission initiatives during the 90's have applied only to yellow cabs. And Bruce Schaller, a former regulator for the taxi commission, has produced a study showing that the economic boom of the last few years may have done more to increase wages for yellow cabbies than for livery drivers, leading them, he concluded, to drive less recklessly.
Eugene Pero, the president of the Livery Owners Coalition of New York, said that much of the increase in livery accidents was due simply to the increase in livery cars -- to about 41,000 in 1997, up from about 32,000 in 1990, according to the commission. (There are 12,187 yellow cabs, up 400 since 1990.)
But the increase in accidents has outpaced the growth in the fleet, with the accident rate per livery car up by about 25 percent, the analysis showed. The accident rate per yellow cab, by contrast, was virtually the same in 1997 as in 1990.
The accident rate per car for yellow cabs is somewhat higher than that for liveries, but most yellow cabs are driven round the clock while most livery cars are driven less than 12 hours a day.
Whatever the reason, the analysis was greeted with an "I-told-you-so" by yellow-cab executives, who, along with their biggest insurer, American Transit Insurance Company, asserted for months as they fought the new rules that yellow-cab accidents were dropping.
"I think we've been unfairly blamed and targeted," said Ronald Sherman, president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents big fleet owners. "We would hope that the T.L.C. and the city adjust their enforcement accordingly."
But the chairwoman of the taxi commission, Diane McGrath-McKechnie, said the agency would not change course.
"This is not a numbers game for the T.L.C.," Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said. "This is about public safety. Whether the numbers go up a little bit or down a little bit, there are still too many accidents, and we need safe drivers for medallion cabs and for livery vehicles."
The Police Department, however, said it would consider cracking down on livery cars. This spring, when attention was focused on taxi dangers, a special police department unit that focuses on yellow cabs stepped up its enforcement sharply; tickets written by the unit rose 36 percent for the first eight months of this year over the same period in 1997.
"We have had focused enforcement on livery cabs and will continue to do so," said Lieut. Stephen Biegel, a police spokesman. "We'll also review the data and see if a formal unit would be in order."
Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said the commission's new rules, most of which apply equally to yellow and livery cabs, should bring the two industries into line with each other. And she said she planned to call for votes at the next commission meeting on Thursday on the two proposed rules that the commissioners balked at passing in May.
One rule would require all yellow-cab owners to post a $100,000 bond for accident victims to collect against. The other would lower the penalty-point threshold at which drivers lose their licenses.
The Times analysis found that yellow cab accidents reported to the state increased from about 3,850 in 1990 to a peak of about 4,850 in 1994, then decreased to about 3,950 last year. Accidents involving livery cars rose steadily from about 6,300 in 1990 to about 9,050 in 1994 and 10,150 last year. The analysis used statistical methods to estimate the distribution of accidents where data was incomplete.
Serious injuries in livery accidents, including severe cuts, broken bones, and other internal injuries also increased during the decade, to about 800 in 1997 from 675 in 1990. During the same period, serious injuries in yellow cabs dropped to about 350 in 1997 from about 450 in 1990.
The Times analysis found that in 1994, when the partitions became standard, the number of yellow-cab accidents in which the most serious injury was to the face or eye jumped drastically, to 81 from 52. But those accidents represent such a small portion of the total -- 2 or 3 percent -- that the increase was swallowed up by the overall decrease.
And by the end of 1997, yellow-cab accidents in which the most serious injury was to the face or eye had dropped below the 1990 level of 46, to 36, due at least in part to an aggressive campaign by the taxi commission to get passengers to wear their seat belts.
Fidel F. Del Valle, the chairman of the taxi commission from 1991 to 1995, said that until the new rules were passed, most of the enforcement against livery cabs consisted of making sure the cars were properly registered and were not cruising for fares. He said that holders of livery licenses often allowed friends or relatives to work their cars when they were not using them, whether or not they had hack licenses.
"Until the recent rules," he said, "there have been no real rules as to the behavior of for-hire vehicle drivers."
Yellow cabs, meanwhile, have been held to a standard that, whatever its shortcomings, has become more strict over the course of the decade. In 1990, the commission began a persistent-violator program for yellow cabs that has resulted in hundreds of suspensions. In 1995, the police took over enforcement against yellow cabs from taxi commission inspectors and began writing what many yellow-cab drivers complained was a blizzard of nuisance tickets for minor infractions.
In 1996, the commission passed a rule requiring owners to buy new cabs every four years at most. Some livery drivers, Mr. Pero said, keep their cars on the road for up to 15 years.
"I see cars on the road in the livery industry that I'd be ashamed to put in my fleet," said Mr. Pero, who runs a fleet of 42 car-service and black cars.
Mr. Pero agreed that regulation of liveries had been too lax, but like many yellow-cab owners, he said that the commission and the police had gone overboard since the new rules were passed in the spring, and he said he was worried that it could get much harder for him to make a living.
"What has happened in past administrations is that they haven't corrected the industry," he said. "The T.L.C. hasn't protected the public until now. But all of a sudden they implement this stuff on both industries and it becomes chaotic."
 
Analysis Methods
The Times analysis was based on an examination of a state database of nearly 120,000 taxi accidents involving 127,000 cabs, 133,000 other vehicles and 320,000 people, more than half of whom were injured, across New York State between 1990 and 1997.
The database, compiled from police reports, included the license plate number of each vehicle. The Times classified each New York City taxi as either a yellow cab or a livery car based on unique sequences of plate numbers assigned to each type.
In roughly 15 to 20 percent of all New York City taxi accidents, the plate number was missing from the state files, typically because the plate number reported by the police did not match state license records.
The analysis found that the pattern of missing records strongly matched the pattern of medallion taxi accidents across the city. As a result, The Times classified these accidents based on a statistical model that considered the number of medallion and livery plates in each precinct.
Over all years, 80 percent of the missing cases were allocated to yellow cabs. Experts said yellow cab license plates were complicated, often containing a small subscripted number that caused errors in state accident reports. The model assumed that there were no other factors that might explain the pattern of missing plates. But even if all the missing plates were livery cars or taxis, the pattern the analysis found -- a decline in yellow cab accidents and an increase in livery car accidents -- was still valid.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Map: "BY THE NUMBERS: Look Both Ways"
Graph shows number of livery cabs and yellow cabs in New York City and indicates how many of each were involved in accidents, plotted from 1990 through 1997. Map of New York City indicates where the accidents occured. (Source: N.Y.C. Taxi and Limousine Commission; New York Times analysis of State Dept. Motor Vehicles data)(pg. B14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: LIVERY OWNERS COALITION (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIVERY OWNERS COALITION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); TRENDS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (76%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); FACIAL INJURIES (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; BARBANEL, JOSH

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



453 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
German Central Banker Opposes Rate Cut Now

BYLINE: Bridge News 

 BODY:
A member of the Bundesbank council, Guntram Palm, said yesterday that it would not be appropriate now to reduce official German interest rates, an action that has been repeatedly called for by members of the new German Government. Mr. Palm also rejected establishing foreign-exchange target zones for the United States dollar, the euro and the Japanese yen.
In a speech prepared for delivery at a Baden-Wurttemberg state central bank function, Mr. Palm said the money supply in Germany and Europe was ample for economic growth. He would not rule out a rate move by the European Central Bank during 1999, but he stressed that rate cuts were not a cure-all for economic problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: BADEN-WURTTEMBERG, GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); BADEN-WURTTEMBERG, GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EURO (88%); US DOLLAR (87%); CURRENCIES (87%); MONEY SUPPLY (83%); TRENDS (83%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (83%); 

PERSON: PALM, GUNTRAM GUNTRAM PALM (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



454 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: What to Do About the Gridlock?;
Second Ave. Subway

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Nov. 12 news article on lagging subway service points out that the sharp increase in ridership has increased crowding and slowed service but produced a $240 million budget surplus so far for New York City Transit.
In order to alleviate these problems and take advantage of the growing surplus, New York City Transit should restart a project that has been in limbo for more than two decades. This would be to revive the now-forgotten Second Avenue subway line construction. 
 This would be an economic boon for the city because of the jobs it would create. Also, with the effect of the economic multiplier, several times the annual construction expenditures would flow into the city's economy.
 
E. MAGNUS OPPENHEIM
New York, Nov. 13, 1998
 
The writer is an economist and investment analyst.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); BUDGETS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (68%); 

PERSON: OPPENHEIM, E MAGNUS

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998



455 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 14; Column 3; Giving 

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Confronting a $1.4 Billion Blank Page

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
DORIS DUKE, reputedly the richest woman in the United States when she died in 1993 at the age of 80, loved jazz, modern dance, gospel music and Islamic art. She cared about children, animals and the great outdoors. She worried about people with heart disease, cancer, AIDS and sickle cell anemia.
What Ms. Duke did not pay much attention to, apparently, was organization. 
 When Joan E. Spero, the president of the brand-new, $1.4 billion Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, showed up for her first day on the job in February 1997, she found a temporary office near Times Square lent by Morgan Stanley (whose president, John J. Mack, sits on the board) and a temporary secretary.
"I gave her $20 to go out and get some supplies," Ms. Spero recalled. Then she opened her briefcase, which contained a copy of Ms. Duke's will, a few notes from debriefing the estate's lawyers, their printout of key phone numbers and a virgin Filofax, and sat down to work.
But to do what? Many rich people leave detailed instructions and even established organizations to carry out their philanthropic wishes. But not Ms. Duke, who was famous for her independent spirit. Her will directed that money go toward "the improvement of humanity" and made references to entertainers, flora, fauna and a few other causes close to her heart. That was about it.
Ms. Spero, 54, had to build an organization for the 25th largest American foundation from scratch -- in time to hand out nearly $20 million last year, as required by law. With the annual sum beginning this year at around $55 million, the nonprofit world has been watching.
"There had just been cuts in government funding, so the idea of a new foundation with a substantial amount of money was a boost to all of us in the field," said Harvey Lichtenstein, the president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Now, almost two years later, suspense remains rampant -- even more so after the announcement last December that the initial grants each exceeded $1 million, a huge sum for perpetually needy organizations.
Though now ensconced in its own office on Fifth Avenue overlooking St. Patrick's Cathedral, the Duke foundation is not fully in place. "We still don't have the capacity to take grant applications," Ms. Spero said, sounding apologetic, "although we're in dialogue with some people." She promised to have some guidelines ready by January.
Serious, mild-mannered and dressed in shades of gray and powder blue, Joan Spero seems an unlikely alter ego for the flamboyant Ms. Duke, whom most people remember for the posthumous legal battles with the alcoholic, semiliterate butler she had named as executor and with the adopted daughter Ms. Duke had disinherited.
Nevertheless, as soon as Ms. Spero took the job, "I was everybody's new best friend in New York." Ms. Duke's will had been posted on the Internet, allowing everyone to read about, among other things, her "special interest in the prevention of cruelty to animals" and of the $100,000 she left in trust for the care of her dog. Thousands of music and ballet companies, environment and historic-preservation groups and others had inundated the foundation with pleas for money. "Of course we made a call," Mr. Lichtenstein said.
The foundation's trustees -- who include James F. Gill, a lawyer who acts as the chairman; Marion Charles, a Newport resident known as "Oatsie," and Harry Demopoulos, Ms. Duke's former doctor -- were counting on Ms. Spero's broad experience to help her sort everything out. Before taking the $400,000-a-year job, she was Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs. Before that, Ms. Spero held posts at American Express Company, where she rose to executive vice president, and was an assistant professor at Columbia University.
The trustees cared little that she had no experience in the nonprofit world, though that prolonged her learning curve. For months, she was the foundation's only professional employee; she said she felt she could not hire staff until she had a strategy.
She began meeting with the foundation's trustees individually to solicit their ideas. She hired a management consultant, Brian Knapp, to help her design a structure for the foundation, and she visited other foundation officials, like Susan V. Berresford, president of the Ford Foundation, and William G. Bowen, president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, to pick their brains about the business.
But Ms. Spero also needed to learn about Doris Duke. Besides reading books and newspaper clippings, reviewing decades of her charity records, poring over her personal papers and going through her possessions, Ms. Spero visited Ms. Duke's properties -- Duke Farms in Somerville, N.J.; Rough Point, a mansion in Newport, R.I., that will probably house her decorative-arts collection, and Shangri-La, a Moroccan-style mansion in Honolulu that likely will become an Islamic art center (all of which fall under Ms. Spero's bailiwick).
She interviewed dozens of people who knew Ms. Duke, like Tony Gsell, who manages the gardens at Duke Farms, which Ms. Duke helped design; "Cupie," her Indian housekeeper, and Phil Mello, the manager of Rough Point, with whom Ms. Duke restored furniture. In Hawaii, Ms. Spero even tracked down Johnny Gomez, who, she said, traveled around the world with Ms. Duke in the 30's.
Ms. Spero, not surprisingly, is protective of Ms. Duke and reluctant to say anything that might further her legend as an eccentric. She said she learned about Ms. Duke's idiosyncrasies, but also developed an appreciation for Ms. Duke's serious side.
"She was a hands-on person," Ms. Spero said. "And Oatsie Charles has said that she was a very take-charge person. When she led the restoration of Newport, she purchased the properties herself. These things were rundown, but she had a good eye and knew what had to be done to them."
The point of Ms. Spero's research was to shape Ms. Duke's patchwork of wishes into a few defined program areas. By April 1997, Ms. Spero had settled on the performing arts, the environment and medical research. Lacking experience in these fields, she hired consultants to be temporary program officers. Mary Hays, a former executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, and Susan Bloom, a former cultural-affairs officer at American Express, worked in the arts; Pat Noonan, a former president of the Nature Conservancy, assisted on the environment; Joan Leiman and Richard Sohn of Columbia University Medical School advised her on medicine.
As part of what she called her fast-track plan, Ms. Spero decided that the Duke foundation would make large grants to well-established institutions (which may, in turn, disperse the money to individuals), and that it would initiate its own grants, filling in perceived needs instead of responding to requests.
Many grants have captured Ms. Duke's offbeat nature: $4.9 million to create the Doris Duke Clinical Scientist Award Program to support medical research; $2 million to the National Dance Project of the New England Foundation for the Arts to finance new choreography; $1.5 million to the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis to pay for new dance programming and create a performing arts endowment, and $2 million for the Jazz at Lincoln Center program.
Ms. Spero said that the willingness to take risks on individual artists, as Ms. Duke did, would happen indirectly. "We didn't have the capacity to judge, so we're outsourcing," she explained.
Ms. Spero's tenure has been hailed, especially by recipients of unsolicited Duke grants. Several praised the size of the awards because, as Mr. Lichtenstein said, "that kind of money can really make a difference." At the very least, others, many of whom covet grants, gave her a "so far, so good" grade.
As the foundation doles out its money, Ms. Spero said "a byproduct of what we want to do is to tell the world that Doris Duke was more than a lady who left the money to the butler." In the beginning, $8 million to $10 million will maintain Ms. Duke's three properties and build an archive of her possessions. The other $45 million of the $55 million in annual grants will be split among the arts, environment and medicine for now. "But we're trying to stay flexible," Ms. Spero said.
"We have over $1 billion that we can put to some definition of the public good, and that is awesome," she said. "It is frightening."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan E. Spero, above, plumbed Doris Duke's life for clues on turning her fortune into good works. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION MORGAN STANLEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE, DORIS, CHARITABLE FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FOUNDATIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); DANCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); ANEMIA (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; SPERO, JOAN EDELMAN; DUKE, DORIS (1912-93) JOHN J MACK (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



456 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Giving 

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: The $20,000 Surprise and Other Foundation Shakers

BYLINE: By ANNE ADAMS LANG; Anne Adams Lang writes about political, social and health issues.

 BODY:
"IT'S become the Wild West," said Virginia Esposito, the president of the National Center for Family Philanthropy in Washington. "The changes are seismic. It's the numbers of people involved, the diversity of interests and opportunity, with new foundations being created every day."
Parvenus, freshly minted millionaires and roll-up-your-sleeves venture capitalists are invading foundation country. The onslaught is turning the staid world of Northeastern patricians and elite professionals into an anarchic laboratory of do-gooders running their own private and family foundations. 
 The numbers are impressive. The ranks of family and private foundations swelled to 54,000 in 1997 from 22,000 in 1980, according to Internal Revenue Service figures. The Foundation Center in New York estimates that the assets of these organizations have sextupled to an astonishing $300 billion from a decade-and-a-half ago.
And they are everywhere. From Indiana, Nebraska and Ohio to Texas, California and Washington State, a new generation of philanthropists is branding the landscape with names as remote as some of the places they serve. Several, like the Packard Foundation, have endowments larger than an island nation's G.N.P. Most flex their social muscles on a great deal less.
"What you've got are large numbers of families and individuals who have never had a legacy of wealth and are just beginning in philanthropy," said Peter Karoff, the president of the Philanthropic Initiative, a Boston consulting firm that advises the wealthy on philanthropic options. "People are starting projects directly out of their life experiences. They are using a whole new language and a whole new approach to giving."
In the last few months, Mr. Karoff said, one man offered to "throw $300 million" at locating the "brilliant black and Hispanic kids who don't know that they are brilliant." Another neophyte suggested that $40 million "felt like the right number" to do "something with accountability in the public schools." Both these programs are being developed.
Mr. Karoff guided another first-timer who "hates organizations and would just as soon drive down a street in Roxbury and throw the money out the window" into creating Boston Neighborhood Fellows.
"This guy finds six unsung heroes each year, calls them up and says, 'You won $20,000,' " Mr. Karoff said. "This year, he's raising it to $25,000."
This infusion of untamed blood into a field seen as the preserve of Rockefellers, Carnegies and Fords is forcing citizens of the foundation universe to examine what they do and how they do it. Old ways are under attack as the arrivistes take a get-in-the-trenches approach.
An emerging force is Paul Brainerd, who founded Social Venture Partners in Seattle. Mr. Brainerd, the software savant behind desktop publishing, sold his company in 1994 and promptly started a family foundation devoted to local environmental issues. But in conversations with suddenly rich high-techies, Mr. Brainerd discovered a passionate desire to give back to the community and a frustrating lack of skills.
In June 1997, he joined with Scott Oki, one of the many Microscoft millionaires, to start Social Venture Partners. By the end of this year, S.V.P. will have 110 partners who have each contributed a minimum of $5,000 into an operating-investment pool that distributed $300,000 to education and child welfare projects in its first year.
"We use the venture capital model as a way to invest in the community," Mr. Brainerd explained. "People give more than money. They give time and expertise. It's more of a partnership with the nonprofits we're going to serve. Like venture capitalists, we're willing to take more risks and eventually hope to have a portfolio of community investments, both high and low risk."
REJECTING the standard practice of sifting through written proposals and responding -- in writing -- months later, Mr. Brainerd said S.V.P. talks directly with grant applicants about their projects, their leadership and their problems. "Many grantees told us this was the first time anyone has done this," he said.
The venture-capital approach focuses on measurable results. Mr. Brainerd acknowledged that in some areas, like education, that is hard to achieve. "But we're not religious about the venture-capital model," he said, adding that S.V.P. partners study where the model breaks down while seeking alternatives.
William O'Neill Jr. came to the foundation-as-investor model after setting up the William J. and Dorothy O'Neill Foundation in Cleveland primarily as an estate-planning vehicle. For the first few years, Mr. O'Neill said, the foundation was passive, limiting its work to check writing.
By 1992, Mr. O'Neill was urging his 60 clan members to select a focus and "become involved with time and whatever talents we could bring to bear." They chose family issues, he said, because "if we could restore families to what they can and should be, we might be able to get at a lot of other problems, like poverty and unwed teen-age parents."
The foundation developed a partnership with the Cleveland Center for Families and Children and created Fathers and Families Together. The program recruits fathers from the distressed Glenville neighborhood to attend classes in education, motivation, self-image and some job skills so that they can reunite with their children and families in a "caring, supporting, respecting way." Mr. O'Neill said 60 fathers graduate annually and have an alumni support group to keep them going.
Like other venture capital philanthropists, Mr. O'Neill conceded: "We're trying to measure things that are sort of intangible. But we figure if it costs $2,000 a year per graduate and even half those graduates permanently reunite with their families and become responsible fathers, the return to society has to be at least $2,000 a year."
Approaches like that of the O'Neill Foundation directly challenge the established order. During the 1960's and 70's, mainline foundations like Ford and Rockefeller operated on the principle that once a problem was identified, they could pour money into a test program and, if it worked, the Federal Government would pick up the financing. But in the 1980's Federal dollars for these initiatives began evaporating.
David Saltzman, the executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, in New York, said: "There are now as many different operating ideologies as there are foundations. The influx of living donors is a powerful force because they want to control how their money is spent. Most want an accounting of every penny."
That degree of control can backfire, said Susan Berresford, the president of the Ford Foundation. "A venture capital investor is in a very strong position, putting certain people on the board and making decisions based on looking for a return on investment," Ms. Berresford said. "To be a foundation is to make an investment in other people. You have to stay back to a degree so that they can build independence and organizational capacity."
But the venture-capital model has underscored critiques of mainline foundations as far removed from the needs of grant recipients.
"When foundations mature and move away from the donor and the heirs to a self-selecting and self-perpetuating board," said Bruce Sievers, the executive director of the Walter and Elise Haas Fund in San Francisco, "the question is, where are they getting their inspiration and legitimacy for managing this money? They operate in their own little world without much negative feedback."
The criticisms and competition have put mainline foundations on the defensive.
Ms. Berresford countered that Ford wants to insure that "people with fresh ideas know they're welcome here." This means identifying new fields of operation and building alliances with the public and private sectors, and with other foundations and nonprofits.
A recent example: a $50 million grant to the Center for Community Self-Help in North Carolina will guarantee loans that banks make to low-income home buyers so that those loans can be sold to Fannie Mae. Over the five-year course of the grant, Ford expects 35,000 families to become home owners.
So it is that Rockefeller, working in historically high-unemployment neighborhoods in Milwaukee, Indianapolis and Seattle, is negotiating with private businesses to hire community residents. At the same time, it is prodding government agencies to maintain safety-net protections, including food stamps, subsidized housing and training programs.
"That's an unusual approach for foundations like ours," said Denise Grey-Felder, Rockefeller's director of communications. Rockefeller, she said, is even contemplating using the endowment less as a grant and more as an investment, in line with the venture-capital model.
"This is an amazing time of upheaval," said Stacy Palmer, the editor of the Chronicle of Philanthropy. "You've got a lot of people experimenting with all kinds of things. What you're seeing is that people haven't figured out what the solutions are; they don't how to cope with the fact that the ground is shifting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Brainerd organized Social Venture Partners in Seattle, Susan Berresford has sought new directions as the Ford Foundation's president and William O'Neill Jr. focused his family's Cleveland foundation on family issues. (Photos by Therese Frare for The New York Times; Barney Taxel for The New York Times; Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOUNDATION CENTER (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); FOUNDATION CENTER (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); FOUNDATION CENTER (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS FOUNDATIONS (93%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (60%); 

PERSON: LANG, ANNE ADAMS PAUL BRAINERD (85%); PETER KAROFF (69%); WILLIAM O'NEILL JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



457 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 7; Column 1; Giving 

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Giving Is Easy, but Growing Is Hard

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR 

 BODY:
THE idea was too good to pass up: turning pennies salvaged from sidewalks and purse bottoms into thousands of dollars for charities. But from the start, Theodore F. Gross was ambivalent about pursuing the idea himself. He was a playwright, not a neighborhood do-gooder.
Still, using pennies to promote community service -- an idea born after his daughter, Nora, who was 4, asked how they could help a homeless man -- struck Mr. Gross as powerful. So, in late 1989, half hiding behind his child, Mr. Gross went door-to-door asking his Manhattan neighbors for pennies. Their bounty that year: $1,879. 
 Since then, the Grosses' penny-collecting campaign has grown into a citywide civic program in which students collect pennies, then form "round tables" to decide where to donate their money. Last year, about 470 public and private schools in New York collected and gave away close to $300,000.
But as the program has matured, so have the organization and its founder, experiencing growing pains along the way.
Common Cents, the nonprofit group, has evolved in only eight years from a daughter-and-pop enterprise operated in Mr. Gross's apartment with a staff of two (Mr. Gross and Nora), a pocket-change budget and friends volunteering, into something that looks suspiciously like a traditional grant-making foundation. It has a professional staff of three plus six full-time Americorps-Vista volunteers; a proposed million-dollar budget; a $10,000 endowment; a roster of organizations courted for contributions and a board of trustees with their eye on raising money.
Like many nonprofit agencies, it has also struggled with finances. "As adolescence goes, it's been pretty smooth," said Ted Greenwood, an executive at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the president of the Common Cents board. "But growth is hard. We've had moments of financial crisis. It's not a good thing not to know how to meet next month's payroll."
While Common Cents has transformed itself, so has Mr. Gross -- from a creative guy with a good idea to a social entrepreneur learning to make hard decisions. His admirers are many; his critics, generally gentle in their rebukes. Both say it is an odd mix of passion and reluctance -- Mr. Gross's passion for his idea and reluctance to be its sole champion -- that has moved Common Cents from baby to teen-ager with its mission clear and virtue intact.
It hasn't been easy for him.
"Teddy is engaging, tenacious and determined, and these are good qualities," said Hildy J. Simmons, a managing director in charge of community relations and philanthropic services at J. P. Morgan. "But there is never enough money for everything, and decisions are always difficult, especially with these small organizations. It's been very hard to manage all the complicated pieces and keep the core of engagement and excitement."
Mr. Gross described his work as a "journey" and a "transformational experience." When he began to expand the organization, he looked for someone else to lead the charge. "We needed someone who understood the nuts and bolts of a nonprofit," he said. "I didn't have nearly the confidence in myself that I felt we needed."
About the same time, the Robin Hood Foundation approached him with an offer to run the program. But according to Mr. Gross, when the foundation insisted that its board members decide how the pennies were donated, he balked. David Saltzman, the executive director of Robin Hood, said that discussions with Mr. Gross about taking over the penny harvesting had ended because of "insurmountable differences in opinion about how the program should be run, where the money should go and how much the program should cost."
Mr. Gross decided that diversifying -- starting penny harvests in other communities besides New York -- would help to secure the program's future. He wrote a handbook and sent hundreds of copies nationwide to respond to queries. He even appeared on "The Oprah Winfrey Show." Still, there was not much follow-through.
Meanwhile, in New York, the program was taking off and needed Mr. Gross's full attention. He began establishing a focus -- children -- with schools as his vehicle. And on July 1, 1995, he became the full-time director of Common Cents, earning $40,000 a year. Six months later, he set up an office on West 88th Street in Manhattan.
"That was a moment of truth," Mr. Gross said, "when I decided this was going to be my occupation."
Since then, Mr. Gross has undergone a crash course in nonprofit administration. He called on the organizational skills he developed as a playwright and as a former editor of The Boston Phoenix weekly newspaper. He even dredged up lessons he learned as a boy while proofreading his father's books on management. His father, Bertram M. Gross, a public-policy specialist, author and academician, helped devise policies that were cornerstones of the New Deal.
So, despite his own iconoclastic tendencies, Mr. Gross said, he has "come to respect some traditional approaches."
Until recently, for example, securing grant money has been something of an afterthought. "We are running on fumes," Mr. Gross said. Financial statements bear that out. Between 1991 and 1997, the total amount of money supplied by support grants -- the main source of income other than penny-harvest money -- went from from $77,194 to $135,371. Thousands of dollars in equipment and services were donated, too. But during the same period, as salaries and the staff size increased, operating expenses rose almost fourfold, jumping to $186,420 from $45,450, creating a budget gap.
Mr. Gross has responded by establishing an endowment and trying to build long-standing foundation support. His trustees is also changing. "We were like his band of merry men" -- mostly old friends and devoted supporters, said Michael Miller, an editor at The Wall Street Journal and a former trustee. Now, the group includes some people with previous corporate-board experience or with ties to the city's public schools.
Perhaps the two most critical decisions in Mr. Gross's brief administrative life have involved resisting temptation: first, the allure of commercial interests willing to finance the organization's operations -- at a price; then, the enticements of power and a national stage.
Coin-sorting companies have suggested becoming Common Cents's partner by handling the coin bagging chores, which would allow them to put their sorting machines in schools. Mr. Gross refused. "They were just trying to make a buck, and we are trying to give children a way to feel that they count," he explained.
Controlling growth has been tougher and costlier. Early on, a trustee quit when Mr. Gross and his supporters decided to place penny harvesting in the hands of schoolchildren, not adults. More recently, Mr. Gross recommended that Common Cents set aside plans to go national until it stabilized the New York operation. The board agreed. "There are so many pressures on nonprofits," said Raymond D. Horton, the director of the public and nonprofit management program at Columbia University's business school. "The ability to stop and sit back and review is a big-time skill and smart management."
Mr. Gross said his learning curve is still uphill. Although he hired an executive director fairly quickly, it took him awhile to see the need for an office manager. He was also slow to grasp the importance of making his own salary -- now $80,000 -- more competitive.
"People often ask how we are doing this, and the fact of the matter is, we're still trying to figure out program designs that have wheels," he said.
 
Where Some Children Put Their Pennies
THOUGH there are general rules about who gets the money harvested by Common Cents participants (people, not animals, for one), students are urged to research and pick causes that interest them.
"Philanthropy is not what we are really teaching," said Theodore F. Gross, the director of Common Cents, which is in New York. "It's just a tool in our case, a tool for an education in democracy and moral civic skills and cooperative learning."
A few schools have dropped the program, citing scheduling problems. And others said they could have used more administrative support from Common Cents -- help finding telephone numbers for charities, for example. There is no formal method to make sure the money is being used as intended. Still, Rudy Crew, the New York City schools chancellor, describes the Common Cents programs as "a golden opportunity." New schools continue to join the program, and interviews with more than 50 students, teachers and administrators underscored participants' delight.
On a warm day last spring at Public School 98, in Douglaston, Queens, seven fourth graders gathered in the guidance counselor's office to determine who gets the grants.
Initially, the students did not understand the concept of giving money away, the counselor, Veronica Matuk, said. But after figuring out what charities were, they made suggestions, looked up telephone numbers, wrote a script for the cold calls and took to the phones. In some cases, the students said, they were dismissed by the charities as pranksters. A few respondents even hung up.
"They didn't believe we were a real organization," said Sean Ford, a fifth grader last spring.
Only three charities responded by filling out a form. The students chose, among others, a senior citizens' center nearby.
When they visited the site, the youngsters talked with the residents and created artwork together -- the sort of intergenerational activity their grant would support. "It felt great to be helping them," said Delilah Hutson-Ellenberg, one of the children.
Sheila Huggins, the school's principal, said that for students, "it's another way to relate to each other, and they've learned things they didn't even know they didn't know." MARY B. W. TABOR

GRAPHIC: Photo: Theodore F. Gross, the founder of Common Cents, with children participating in a penny harvest organized by the charity at Public School 84 in Manhattan. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMON CENTS (ORGN) J P MORGAN DELAWARE (50%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CENTS (ORGN)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FINANCES FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: TABOR, MARY B W; GROSS, THEODORE F THEODORE F GROSS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



458 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Growing Gap Is Found in College Affordability and Grants to Needy Students

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
As college costs have risen and Federal grants to needy students have declined over the last two decades, higher education has become significantly less affordable for students from poor families, a new national survey shows.
Some academicians who took part in the survey blamed the higher-education lobby in Washington for the predicament, maintaining that the lobbyists exercised political triage by throwing most of their weight behind winning a lower interest rate on federally backed college loans rather than more money for Federal Pell grants. Loans serve primarily the middle class, while Pell grants help low-income families. 
 In 1976 and 1977, the average Pell grant covered 19 percent of the annual price of a private four-year institution and 39 percent of a public four-year institution. But in 1996 and 1997, it covered only 9 percent of a private college and 22 percent of a public college, the survey found.
Similarly, over the same period, the maximum Pell grant declined to 13 percent of the price of a private college, from 35 percent, and to 34 percent of the price of a public institution, from 72 percent.
The last Congress raised maximum Pell grants to $3,125, from $3,000, and reduced the interest rate on college loans to 7.46 percent, from 8.25 percent.
The continuing erosion of Pell grants is partly a result of the priorities of the higher-education lobby facing the realities of Congress, said Thomas D. Parker, a senior vice president of the Educational Resources Institute. The institute, based in Boston, is a nonprofit educational research organization that cosponsored the survey, with the Institute for Higher Education Policy, whose headquarters are in Washington.
"We did get a small expansion of the Pell grants last year," Mr. Parker said, "but the higher-education lobbyists in Washington decided that it's better to accept the fact that it won't be possible to get much of an increase in Pell grants than to make a stink about it. They decided to put most of their effort behind Federal college loans, which have a much bigger constituency: the middle class. The result is that many low-income people can't even begin to think about going to a four-year college."
Terry Hartle, a spokesman for the American Council on Education, an organization based in Washington that represents 1,600 colleges and universities, called Mr. Parker "woefully misinformed" and said the Pell grant program had been "the most important Federal policy objective of colleges and universities for the past 25 years."
"Over the last two years, the value of the maximum Pell grant has increased by $425, or 14 percent," Mr. Hartle said. "Increasing the Pell grant by $100 costs $350 million, which is a lot even by Washington standards, especially when it competes directly with Head Start, biomedical research and job training."
The survey, entitled "Do Grants Matter? Student Grant Aid and College Affordability," found that in the six years that ended in the 1995-96 academic year, the average net cost of a public four-year institution rose 28 percent, to $7,829 from $6,140, for undergraduates whose annual family incomes were $20,000 to $39,999.
The researchers also found an overall disparity between the college enrollment of low-income and high-income students.
"Overall enrollments are up and Federal funding has modestly increased," said Jamie P. Merisotis, president of the Institute for Higher Education Policy, the cosponsor of the survey, "but these trends mask the fact that there is a gap of almost 30 percentage points in enrollment between low-income and high-income students."
Mr. Merisotis said colleges deserved credit for having invested heavily in financial aid based on need, but added, "The fact remains that the prices are still increasing, and the lower-income students and parents bear the brunt of that."
Asked about a possible solution, Mr. Merisotis replied, "It's not just more Federal money that's needed, but a different political attitude about how and why we should be investing in student aid."
"In addition, the schools must keep prices down by improved cost-management strategies," he said. "For example, some colleges might consider eliminating a program in electrical engineering that is high-cost and has very few graduates."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; FINANCES; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); GRANTS & GIFTS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H JAMIE P MERISOTIS (62%); THOMAS D PARKER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



459 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
SharesRally, Then Sputter, After the Fed Trims Rates

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Widely anticipated cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board did not invigorate the stock market yesterday. Prices, which have rallied sharply the last six weeks, closed mixed in moderate trading.
Stocks moved lower early in the session, then jumped abruptly in midafternoon after the Fed announced its third cut in the overnight Federal funds rate and second reduction in its discount rate in the last seven weeks. But sellers emerged in the last hour of trading, particularly in big, blue-chip issues. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which fell as much as 82 points in the morning and was up as much as 91 after the Fed's announcement, closed down 24.97, or nearly three-tenths of 1 percent, at 8,986.28. Nearly all the average's decline resulted from a sharp slide in Hewlett-Packard, which closed at 60 1/16, down 6 1/16. Hewlett-Packard warned that first-quarter earnings might fall and that sales in its 1999 fiscal year were not likely to meet forecasts because of increased competition and weakness in Asia and Latin America.
Most broader market indexes did better than the Dow. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.45, or three-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,139.32. And the Nasdaq composite index gained 16.84, or nine-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,878.52. But the Russell 2000 index of mostly small-capitalization stocks dipped 0.99 point, or a quarter of 1 percent, closing at 389.43.
"We have come a very long way in a very short time," said Al Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards, noting that since Oct. 8 the Dow rose 21 percent; the S.& P. 500, 24 percent, and the Nasdaq composite, 39 percent.
"The market was doing some consolidating last week and is likely to be doing some more of that," he said. "But I don't see a lot of downside risk below 8,600 on the Dow. If there had been a 1-in-3 risk of a recession next year before the Fed started to cut rates, it has been reduced to a risk of 1 in 10."
The cuts in the Federal funds rate and the discount rate pushed those two rates to their lowest levels in four years and helped lift prices of financial service and bank stocks, which have been on the rise since the Fed began to cut rates in late September.
J. P. Morgan and American Express, two Dow stocks, rose for the second consecutive day. Morgan gained 3 3/8, to 106 7/8. American Express rose 2 7/16, to 99 3/8. BankAmerica rose 1, to 60 3/4, and Chase Manhattan climbed 3 3/8, to 61 1/4.
Brokerage stocks also gained. Merrill Lynch rose 2 13/16, to 66 5/16, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter closed at 66 5/8, up 2 9/16.
But not everyone was sanguine. Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch, said Hewlett-Packard was not likely to be the last company to issue a somber message on earnings for the coming year.
"Most people think that if you get Fed easing, you will get earnings growth," he said. "But we are in a period where earnings growth is negative. That is something people have pretty much ignored over the last six to seven weeks."
With interest rates at current levels, Mr. Bernstein said stocks were between 10 and 20 percent above what he considered fair valuation.
Slumping crude oil prices, which fell to a 10-year low in London and a 4-year low in New York, pushed down oil stocks.
Chevron fell 2 1/2, to 80 3/4. Exxon dropped 7/8, to 70 9/16. And Mobil lost 11/16, to 71 15/16.
With much fanfare, DaimlerChrysler, formed by the merger of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler, introduced its shares on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. But the stock ended lower, closing at 83 7/8, down 7/16.
The stars of Nasdaq included Amazon.com. Shares in the on-line bookseller soared 22 1/4, to 148 1/2, after it said it had opened an on-line video store to compete with Hollywood Entertainment's Reel.com Web site.
Bigger high-technology companies that trade on the Nasdaq system also moved higher. Microsoft gained 3 1/16, to 111 7/8. Cisco Systems rose 1 13/16, to 68 3/4. And Intel closed at 108 1/2, up 1 5/8.
K-Tel International was one of the session's biggest losers. The seller of music, videos and other entertainment was notified by Nasdaq that it had failed to meet the minimum tangible net asset requirement for trading, and faced delisting. The stock tumbled 5 5/8, to 12.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Are Mixed
By Reuters
 Treasury bond prices ended mixed yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates as investors booked profits on the view the Fed would keep rates steady for the near future.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 5/32, to 99 10/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.30 percent, from 5.29 percent on Monday.
"It was buy the rumor, sell the fact," said Charles Parkhurst, the head bond trader at Salomon Smith Barney.
Treasuries rose early in the session and held those gains until the Fed announced late in the session that it had lowered its Federal funds rate by a quarter of a point, to 4.75 percent, and cut the discount rate also by a quarter of a point, to 4.5 percent.
The early gains were extended after the Fed's announcement, but the rally quickly faded as a wave of retail selling emerged.
"People were ready to sell when the market went up," said John Spinello, fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); RECESSION (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



460 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Gore Scolded In Malaysia For Defense Of Dissenters

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Declaring that it would hold the United States responsible for outbreaks of "lawlessness," Malaysia denounced Vice President Al Gore today for a speech here in which he praised simmering protests against Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
In a statement, Malaysia's Foreign Minister said that Mr. Gore's remarks on Monday were a "gross interference in the internal affairs of the country and a brazen violation of the basic tenets of relations between sovereign states." 
 "Malaysians hold dearly the harmony and stability which they have painstakingly built up through the years," said the Foreign Minister, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi. "Malaysians would hold the United States accountable for any rupture of harmony arising from this irresponsible incitement."
In his speech at a regional summit meeting of Pacific Rim countries, Mr. Gore accused Malaysia of suppressing freedom.
As Dr. Mahathir and other Malaysian officials seethed in the audience, Mr. Gore saluted anti-Government protesters as brave people. He even invoked the rallying cry "reformasi," which was coined during Indonesia's student movement and is now chanted here to protest the jailing of Malaysia's former Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim.
Mr. Gore's blunt words, and Malaysia's enraged reaction, have left this meeting of Pacific Rim nations in a shambles. At the gathering, called the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, discussions of how to lower trade barriers or rein in global capital flows were scarcely heard today.
Instead, there were sharp divisions over whether the Vice President had taken a principled stand in defense of human rights or hijacked a meeting intended to be devoted to the Asian financial crisis.
New Zealand's Prime Minister, Jenny Shipley, accused Mr. Gore of practicing "megaphone diplomacy," while officials from Singapore and China offered more subtle criticism of the speech -- reaffirming that they would stick to economic matters and not wade into the affairs of other countries.
However, the President of the Philippines, Joseph Estrada, said in an interview, "I feel the same way as the Vice President."
"I don't interfere in Malaysia's domestic problems, but I've said human rights and due process of law transcend all boundaries," said Mr. Estrada, who earlier threatened to boycott the meeting to protest Mr. Anwar's treatment.
Early this morning, Mr. Estrada met with Mr. Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, defying a stern warning by Dr. Mahathir that visiting dignitaries should not use the summit meeting to get involved in the Anwar dispute.
"I told her that it was a great sacrifice on the part of Anwar for the future of freedom," Mr. Estrada said of the meeting.
"I really can't tell you if he will receive a fair trial. Hopefully because of the media, it will help."
If Mr. Gore's speech was meant to be a call to arms, however, it had a muffled echo on the streets of Kuala Lumpur. About 500 people gathered in a neighborhood near Mr. Gore's hotel this evening to chant and wave placards calling for Dr. Mahathir to step down. But they did not carry through on a threat to march to the luxury hotel where the Vice President was staying.
Protesters have assembled in front of a mosque here nearly every weekend since Mr. Anwar was arrested. And while this was the first rally held during the week, it lacked the size or intensity of previous protests.
People here said the demonstrators may have been discouraged by a phalanx of riot policemen who stood three deep across the road, wielding bamboo sticks and glaring from behind plastic shields.
Some political analysts who support Mr. Anwar said they were troubled by the stridency of the speech. They said Mr. Gore might have played into the hands of Dr. Mahathir.
"This speech may have given ammunition to Dr. Mahathir to discredit the reform movement, in the sense that he can now say it is sponsored by the U.S.," said Chandra Muzaffar, a professor of political science at the University of Malaya.
Advisers to Mr. Gore contended that the Vice President's speech was no different from President Clinton's performance in Beijing last July, when he pointedly challenged the Chinese Government's human rights record in a televised news conference with President Jiang Zemin.
And despite the furor over his words, Mr. Gore did not retreat today. "My point is very simple," he said. "These economies have some very difficult choices to make. Democracy and freedom are essential prerequisites for making those choices." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA PACIFIC VENTURES (54%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (82%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (82%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); POLITICS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); DUE PROCESS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) AL GORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



461 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: SCHRODER AND YELTSIN MEET -- Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany met President Boris N. Yeltsin and said Russia could draw on eastern Germany's experience of making the transition from a planned economy to the free market. Mr. Schroder indicated that he saw Germany's role as an advocate for Russia in global financial organizations. (Reuters)
 
RUSSIA: BANKS IN NEED OF MILLIONS -- Russia will need to find at least another $588 million to stabilize its teetering commercial banks, the chairman of the central bank, Viktor Gerashchenko, said. The banking sector was exposed to huge debts owed to foreign creditors when a Government-imposed moratorium on loan repayments expired last Friday. (Agence France-Presse) 

RUSSIA: NAVY'S WHALES DISCHARGED -- The cash-strapped Russian Navy has closed a Pacific base that trained whales for combat purposes and sent the last trainees, five belugas, to a civilian research center on the Black Sea. The base at Vityaz Bay was used to teach whales to detect enemy divers and carry out other tasks. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: PINOCHET COURT DATE -- A lawyer said Gen. Augusto Pinochet is well enough to leave the hospital, prompting a British judge to order the onetime Chilean dictator to appear in court on Dec. 2 for extradition proceedings -- unless he wins a battle for immunity from arrest. Britain's Home Secretary must decide by Dec. 2 whether extradition proceedings instigated by Spain should go ahead. (AP)
 
ITALY: NAZIS' LIFE TERMS CONFIRMED -- Italy's highest appeals court confirmed life sentences against two former SS officers, Erich Priebke, 83, and Karl Hass, 84, who were found guilty last year of taking part in the March 1944 massacre of 335 civilians in Rome. Both men argued that they were only following orders. (NYT)
 
FRANCE: LE PEN'S SENTENCE REDUCED -- An appeals court upheld the conviction of the far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen for assaulting a Socialist politician at a 1997 rally but reduced his punishment by banning him from politics for one year instead of two. The ruling means that Mr. Le Pen cannot hold office or vote for a year. (AP)
 
YUGOSLAVIA: U.N. PLEA TO MILOSEVIC -- Exasperated with President Slobodan Milosevic's failure to cooperate with the war crimes tribunal for the Balkans, the United Nations Security Council told Yugoslavia to let investigators, led by the tribunal's chief prosecutor, Louise Arbour of Canada, into Kosovo, the southernmost province of Serbia. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST -- ISRAEL: U.S. SPY LOSES IN COURT -- Jonathan Pollard, an American serving a life sentence in the United States for spying for Israel, lost an attempt in an Israeli court to block the release of Palestinian prisoners until he is freed. The court accepted the Israeli Government's argument that no such commitment on such an arrangement had been given at the peace talks at the Wye Plantation in Maryland last month. (Reuters)
 
ISRAEL: U.S. CHARITY BELONGS AT HOME -- A leading Israeli philanthropist told American Jews to reverse the trend of sending the bulk of fund-raising money to Israel and spend it on their own communities instead. Dov Lautman, who heads the Israeli branch of the United Jewish Appeal, said in an interview with the newspaper Haaretz that American Jews must realize Israel is no longer a poor country in need of the intensive support it once received. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
PAKISTAN: SUPPORT FOR ISLAMIC JUSTICE -- Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, left, has called for the introduction of swift Islamic justice in Pakistan, including the hanging of rapists within 24 hours of being arrested. Mr. Sharif, who said his goal was a system of justice like that followed by the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, announced in August that he planned to introduce Islamic law to rid the country of crime and corruption. (Reuters)
 
CHINA: CORRUPTION IS DENOUNCED -- Prime Minister Zhu Rongji said corrupt officials who turn a blind eye to illegal trade are hampering the overhaul of China's grain market, The People's Daily reported. China began to reform its grain distribution system in April to sideline private traders who buy grain from peasant farmers at low prices and sell it to consumers at a much higher price. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CAMBODIA: POL POT'S WIDOW REMARRIES -- The widow of Pol Pot, the leader of Cambodia's Khmer Rouge guerrilla movement, has married one of her late husband's aides, another former rebel commander said. The widow, Mea Som, married Tep Khunnal, a middle-ranking Khmer Rouge official, soon after the two defected to the Government in September. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
CONGO: EMERGENCY FOOD AID -- The United Nations World Food Program began airlifting emergency food supplies to more than 150,000 people facing food shortages in Brazzaville, Congo Republic, and Kinshasa, capital of Congo, the former Zaire. (NYT)
 
UGANDA: PRISON DEATH TOLLS -- An average of 480 people a year die in Ugandan prisons because of poor living conditions, the commissioner for Ugandan prisons said. He was responding to allegations from the Uganda Prisoners Aid Foundation that deaths in Ugandan prisons number in the thousands. (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: REMEMBERING THE HOLOCAUST -- Foreign Minister Guido Di Tella suggested that Argentina build a Holocaust museum in Buenos Aires. He made the proposal at a conference of a Government-appointed panel investigating Nazi activities in Argentina during and after World War II. Clifford Krauss (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map showing the location of Vityaz Bay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (50%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); FRANCE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHILE (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ROME, ITALY (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); NAVIES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); VERDICTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); IMMUNITY (69%); LAWYERS (68%); JUDGES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



462 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Fed Thinks Globally, Acts Locally, to Tepid Wall St. Response;
Stock and Bond Investors Brace for an End to Cuts

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board bowed to investors' expectations with its rate cuts yesterday. But for its trouble, it earned only half-hearted applause from stock and bond traders.
There's a good reason for that muted reaction. Ever since investors fled risky markets this summer for the safe haven of United States Treasuries, the bond market has been leading the Fed on interest-rate policy, trading at levels that predicted even further drops in key rates. But yesterday, both stock and bond investors seemed to respond to signals in the Fed's comments that this, its third cut since Sept. 29, could be the last for the year. 
 The two quarter-point cuts yesterday -- one in the Federal funds rate to 4.75 percent, another in the discount rate to 4.5 percent -- was pretty much what stock traders had been counting on from the Fed's monetary policy meeting. Consequently, while the moves briefly helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average to around 9,100 points, up more than 92 points, by the end of the day the rate cuts were not enough to keep the average in positive territory. The Dow ended the day down 24.97 points, closing at 8,986.28.
Other indexes reacted more positively. The Standard & Poor's 500 crept up 3.45 points. The Nasdaq composite ended the day up 16.84 points, almost 1 percent.
Bond traders had been less cocky about a Fed cut. When the announcement came, Treasury bonds mustered only a temporary rally, hitting a wall of selling that left the yield on the 30-year bond up just one-hundredth of a percentage point, at 5.30 percent. Yields on bonds with shorter maturities -- notes coming due in two years and five years, for instance -- inched up further.
Assessing the markets' reaction to yesterday's move by the Fed is more crucial than usual because financial-market stress -- not troubling economic figures -- has driven Fed policy in recent months. This is unusual. The last time it happened was in 1987, after the stock market crashed.
Had the Fed been looking strictly at recent economic data, it would almost certainly not have cut rates. "Where is the slowdown?" asked Peter Canelo, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "What they did today was unnecessary, it was a precautionary move. The economy is doing well and is going to be doing even better now."
Indeed, gross domestic product is growing at more than a 3 percent clip, there is a boom in housing demand, and sales of both automobiles and smaller-ticket consumer goods are strong. Consumer confidence is rising again after a couple of troubling dips and the stock market is soaring. None of this would typically signal a need for a drop in rates.
Bond-market stability is, however, a more complex matter to measure. The Fed has been looking for signs of a credit contraction there that could push the economy into a recession. If the markets appear to be more stable in the coming weeks, then the likelihood of further rate cuts recedes.
By several measures, stability is returning to some of the investment arenas that had been hardest hit by the Russian default and other meltdowns in emerging markets. What had been cavernous spreads in September in the yields between Treasuries and non-Treasury debt like junk bonds or mortgage securities are much narrower now.
The yield on Merrill Lynch's master index of high-yield bonds closed yesterday 5.37 percentage points more than Treasuries with similar maturities. Though still wide, the gap is a full percentage point slimmer than it had been. Furthermore, investors are piling into junk-bond funds at a furious rate -- roughly $1 billion a week recently -- enlivening a market that had been comatose.
"The environment certainly seems to have changed dramatically from late September, when companies were starting to fail for lack of ability to roll over their debts," Martin Fridson, chief high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch, said. That's exactly the reaction from investors the Fed was hoping for.
And investors in the stock market are almost swaggering again. Mr. Canelo noted that after the market crash of 1987, it took 15 months for stock prices to recover half of what they had lost. Following this summer's market drop, it took less than four weeks to recover half of what stock indexes had lost.
One reason stock prices may have rebounded so spectacularly is that the supply of money in the country's financial system has ballooned of late. And while some of this money has flowed into the stock market, the growth may also preclude a recession next year.
"I have never seen a recession take place when money growth is rising at these rates," said Lief Olson, director of Absolute Return Investors, an institutional money management firm in New Canaan, Conn. "With low inflation, continuing growth, and low interest rates, you do not have a recipe for weak growth or recession."
But even if the nation averts a recession, higher stock prices may not be the result. Daniel Laufenberg, chief United States economist for American Express Financial Advisers in Minneapolis, is a bull on corporate earnings for next year, but he thinks stock prices will only tread water in 1999.
Why? Because he reckons that interest rates will rise. "Credit spreads and risk aversion by investors has created the need for the Fed to ease," Mr. Laufenberg said. "At some point, the Fed will have to start focusing on economic fundamentals rather than financial market conditions and when they do, I believe the Fed will discover that the fundamentals are still very positive."
A rate increase next year, he said, could be the result.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Bullish Hour"
The Dow Jones industrials rose more than 150 points yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut rates, but later gave back most of the gains. Graph tracks data yesterday. (Source: Bridge Information Systems) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MORGAN STANLEY (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; DISCOUNT RATE STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



463 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Many Big Retailers Meet Analysts' 3d-Quarter Expectations

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Global political and economic turmoil in recent months did not hurt profits at many of the nation's biggest retailers, which yesterday reported third-quarter results that met Wall Street analysts' expectations.
The Dayton Hudson Corporation's third-quarter profits rose 14 percent from the corresponding period a year ago, led by strength at its Target discount stores. 
 Strong sales in the J. C. Penney Company's catalogue, drugstores and direct marketing divisions offset continued weakness at its department stores.
The Limited Inc.'s strength came from a turnaround in its once-troubled Express chain, as well as its stake in Intimate Brands, which owns Victoria's Secret and Bath and Body Works.
Earnings at the Home Depot surged amid continued strength in the housing market, which fueled demand for its wide selection of home-improvement merchandise.
Saks Inc., which was acquired by Proffitt's Inc. in July, said earnings increased.
Dayton Hudson, which is based in Minneapolis and operates 1,182 stores in 41 states, earned $182 million, or 39 cents a diluted share, up from $160 million, or 34 cents a share, in the period a year ago.
Total revenues increased 10.1 percent in the quarter to $7.29 billion.
Target's pretax profit for the quarter increased 18 percent, to $293 million, compared with $249 million in the period in 1997. Target's total revenues for the quarter increased 12.1 percent, and comparable-store sales in the quarter increased 5.1 percent.
Dayton Hudson's results met Wall Street analysts' expectations for the quarter, but its shares fell $2, to $43.
J. C. Penney, which is based in Plano, Tex., earned $186 million, or 68 cents a diluted share, compared with $113 million, or 40 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
The results last year included a pretax charge of 45 cents a share related to the costs of a voluntary early retirement program and in expenses for the acquisition of Eckerd drugstores. Excluding the charge, the company earned $229 million, or 85 cents a share, in the third quarter a year ago.
Sales were $7.55 billion, up from $7.44 billion a year ago.
"Our third-quarter operating results did not meet our expectations, principally due to soft sales in our department stores," said James E. Oesterreicher, chairman and chief executive officer. "The positive contributions from the J. C. Penney catalog, drug stores, and direct marketing services were offset by the sales and profit declines in J. C. Penney stores."
Penney's results were slightly above Wall Street analysts' expectations. Its stock, however, was down $1.4375, to $50.1875, on the Big Board.
Limited, which is based in Columbus, Ohio, earned $39.4 million, or 17 cents a diluted share, compared with $79.7 million, or 29 cents a share, for the period a year earlier.
The 1997 results include a gain of $62.8 million related to the sale of one-half of the Limited's interest in Brylane Inc.
The company said third-quarter sales decreased 3 percent, to $2 billion, from $2.071 billion in last year's quarter.
The 1998 results include a gain of $1.65 billion from the spinoff of Abercrombie & Fitch in May. Excluding the gain, net income was $98 million, or 39 cents a share on a diluted basis.
The Limited operates about 3,600 stores, including the Express, Lerner New York, Lane Bryant and Limited Stores chains. The company also owns about 84 percent of Intimate Brands Inc., which operates more than 1,800 stores through Victoria's Secret and Bath and Body Works.
The Limited's results met Wall Street analysts' expectations. Shares of Limited fell $1.625, to $27.125.
Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, earned $392 million, or 26 cents a share on a diluted basis, compared with $299 million, or 20 cents a share on a diluted basis, a year ago.
The 1997 results include a $104 million charge to cover gender discrimination lawsuits.
Sales were $7.7 billion, an increase of 24 percent from $6.2 billion in the third quarter of the 1997 fiscal year. Comparable store sales, which are considered the best gauge of a retailer's strength, rose 7 percent.
Home Depot's results topped Wall Street analysts' estimates. Its stock was up 50 cents, to $47.875.
Saks said third-quarter income before charges related to its merger was $53.9 million, or 37 cents a share, up from $37.9 million, or 27 cents a share. Sales increased 4 percent, to $1.47 billion from $1.42 billion. For the quarter, net income was a loss of $127.7 million, including extraordinary items of $181.6 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); TGT (NYSE) (94%); HD (NYSE) (91%); LTD (NYSE) (71%); SKS (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (91%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (91%); NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (71%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (71%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DAYTON HUDSON CORP; PENNEY, J C, CO; LIMITED INC; SAKS INC; HOME DEPOT INC J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); TARGET CORP (94%); HOME DEPOT INC (91%); L BRANDS INC (71%); SAKS INC (69%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (56%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAYTON HUDSON CORP; PENNEY, J C, CO; LIMITED INC; SAKS INC; HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); RETAILERS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); HOME CENTERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



464 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
What Can He Say About New York? Plenty

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
AS befits the co-author of a 1,383-page history of New York City -- and that's only Volume I -- Mike Wallace is not a man of few words. Just give him a topic: J.P. Morgan! The Erie Canal! Elizabeth Cady Stanton! And Mr. Wallace is off.
"Push a button, and I blather," said Mr. Wallace on Monday, at the end of a two-and-a-half-hour interview in the 1870-ish Brooklyn row house that he shares with his wife, Hope Cooke, the former American debutante and Queen of Sikkim who is now a walking-tour guide. (Another story entirely.) Of course, Mr. Wallace should be indulged: for two decades he has been mired with his co-author, Edwin G. (Ted) Burrows, on "Gotham: A History of New York to 1898," published by Oxford University Press this month. He seems happy to be out in the light. 
 "Some of it is spending so many years in your room talking only to Hope and Ted," said Mr. Wallace, 56, a history professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. "Now I've been unleashed. I'm on motor-mouth mode."
Fortunately, he's entertaining. "If Christopher Columbus had been squashed by a crate on the loading dock in Genoa, would America never have been 'discovered?' " Mr. Wallace asked, then answered his own question. "Certainly it would have been discovered, and very soon thereafter. The players are important, but they're acting in congruence with great historical forces."
That is a central theme of "Gotham," a populist narrative with a sense of humor, like the city itself. Mr. Wallace, for example, calls the Dutch purchase of Manhattan from the Indians for $24 the city's "primal deal," and says it is generally thought to have taken place. But since Mr. Wallace says his work is not reducible to a sound bite or bumper sticker, it is with some trepidation that the question is asked: What is the essential element that made New York New York?
"It's location, plus seizing the advantages," Mr. Wallace said simply. The port was the "indispensable basic" that transformed New York from a "pissant little edge of the Dutch empire to the crucial link between Western goods and European markets to the headquarters of an industrial continent."
Along the way, readers meet prostitutes and socialites, robber barons and reformers, wise men and fools. (The title, which means "Goats' Town" in old Anglo-Saxon, comes from a real village near Sherwood Forest in the English county of Nottinghamshire -- the butt of jokes in the Middle Ages about its foolish citizens. In 1807, Washington Irving bestowed the name on New York; Bob Kane and Bill Finger revived it in the 1930's Batman comic books.)
ONE of Mr. Wallace's favorite "Gotham" fools is the Rev. Charles Parkhurst of the Madison Square Presbyterian Church, who in 1892 attacked Mayor Hugh J. Grant and Tammany Hall as a "perjured, rum-soaked and libidinous lot." Pressed for evidence, Parkhurst said he had none -- then embarked on a comprehensive tour of New York's netherworld with a private detective to prove his point. One evening, the men saw five women strip and play leapfrog in a Tenderloin house. "Did you join in this leapfrog business?" the detective was later asked. "Yes," he responded. "I was the frog."
"Gotham" is receiving excellent notice. For Mr. Wallace, it was a gamble that paid off. "Instead of working on a series of smaller topics, which would build his reputation, he put his efforts into this large study," said his friend Eric Foner, a specialist in 19th-century American history at Columbia University. "He sort of disappeared from the radar screen of a lot of historians for a while."
Mr. Burrows, a history professor at Brooklyn College, agreed. "Here we were, slogging away, out of the mainstream," he said. Although the writing was a collaboration, Mr. Burrows, an expert on the 17th and 18th centuries, was in charge of the first third of the book, including the lyrical descriptions of a Garden of Eden-like New York, just 300 years ago, full of "playful whales," oysters crowding offshore waters and woods teeming with bears, wolves and 40-pound wild turkeys. "I loved writing that," he said.
Mr. Wallace is now at work solo on Volume II, which will take him up to the present. Mr. Wallace sees the 1950's and 60's as the city's "Augustan Age," and worries about manufacturing continuing to "bleed" away. "So the story is that we have sawed off several of the legs of the stool on which the city's economy rests," he said.
Mr. Wallace met his wife at a history conference in 1984, when she was at work on a walking-tour book. He was a New York boy -- born in Brooklyn, raised in Valley Stream and Great Neck. (His father sold houses on Long Island.) He now lives in Carroll Gardens. At Columbia College he switched from premed, his mother's idea, to history, and became a research assistant to the historian Richard Hofstadter. He helped found the Radical History Review, was its editor for many years, and is a force behind "public history" -- a term for a range of activities, like documentaries and museum exhibits, that historians use to bring the past to the larger public.
At one point, Mr. Wallace and Mr. Burrows were planning an even larger history than "Gotham."
"Originally, this thing was an even more lunatic enterprise," Mr. Wallace said. "It was going to be a history of the U.S. of A."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Wallace is the co-author of a 1,383-page history of New York. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: GOTHAM: A HISTORY OF NEW YORK TO 1898 (BOOK)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); SIKKIM, INDIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (65%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); SIKKIM, INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HISTORY WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; WALLACE, MIKE; BURROWS, EDWIN G MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



465 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: A Prudent Move by the Fed

 BODY:
The world's financial markets have calmed down since the Federal Reserve first moved to lower interest rates seven weeks ago. But economic problems remain, and the Fed acted wisely yesterday when it imposed its third cut in two months.
The rebound in the Dow Jones industrial average, which has made up nearly all its plunge of almost 20 percent this past summer, overstates the extent to which financial markets have rallied since the Fed signaled in late September that it was determined to fight the prospect of world recession. Markets in other countries, and for smaller stocks in this country, remain far below their peaks of earlier this year. 
 Perhaps more important, there are still signs of credit stringency in the premium rates companies here and abroad must pay to borrow money. Those conditions have eased from the peak of panic in the summer, but are not back to normal. Most of Asia remains in recession, and it is too early to know whether the Brazilian rescue package will keep the Asian flu from infecting Latin America.
Nonetheless, the Fed's decision yesterday to lower the Federal funds rate at which banks borrow from each other by a quarter-point, to 4.75 percent, was a relatively close call. That is because the American economy remains strong and consumers are still spending. There are signs that rampant speculation is returning, at least in Internet stocks. One such stock, Theglobe.com, was unable to sell stock just four weeks ago. But last week it sold shares at $9 each and saw the price leap to a high of $97 within minutes. It has since come back down to just over $40, but even that price shows a lot of optimism.
Whether or not such optimism is warranted for Internet companies, the picture for the entire economy is mixed. While the chances of a recession have declined, the weak international economy means that corporate profits are not likely to be nearly as strong as they were in recent years. The Fed's pre-emptive rate cuts will help, but they cannot completely insulate the United States from international economic woes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM THEGLOBE.COM INC (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TRENDS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INFLUENZA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



466 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Championing Democracy in Malaysia

 BODY:
Malaysia's Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, is fuming, and his countrymen should relish every second of his discomfort. Vice President Al Gore and other foreign leaders have used an economic summit meeting in Dr. Mahathir's capital to call for greater democracy and economic reform in Malaysia.
Championing the cause of freedom and human rights with a zest that he has rarely demonstrated before, Mr. Gore was especially effective in defending the cause of Anwar Ibrahim, Malaysia's former Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Anwar was jailed in September on dubious charges of corruption and sexual misconduct and is now on trial. Most Malaysians recognize the case for what it is, namely a political vendetta against one of Southeast Asia's most articulate and thoughtful reformers. 
Mr. Anwar's supporters have been roughed up in the streets and otherwise intimidated. But their movement has endured and become a force for needed political and economic change. Mr. Gore was not the only visiting foreigner to raise concerns about the Anwar case. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright made a point of visiting Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, Mr. Anwar's wife, as did President Joseph Estrada of the Philippines and Canada's Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy.
Diplomatic protocol calls for speaking positively of one's hosts. Mr. Gore, Ms. Albright and the others were right to be rude. America's interest in Asia is to encourage human rights and democratic change, not to flatter embattled autocrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (96%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA (96%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CORRUPTION (71%); MISCONDUCT (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



467 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Chief Supports Debt Relief for Honduras and Nicaragua

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The chief of the International Monetary Fund, Michael Camdessus, said today that he favored giving Nicaragua and Honduras, both devastated by a hurricane last month, a break on loans, canceling 80 percent of the debts to the fund.
While touring the region, Mr. Camdessus urged individual governments to help ease a debt load that had stalled development in the two countries long before the hurricane, called Mitch, struck. 
 President Arnoldo Aleman of Nicaragua said after a breakfast meeting with Mr. Camdessus such aid would help Nicaragua use "the painful experience of Hurricane Mitch to rebuild and transform the country."
Mr. Camdessus pledged "our total commitment" to help Nicaragua and praised the Government for pledging to continue with fiscal changes that were agreed on months ago in an aid package.
"This should be a very powerful incentive" for other agencies to help, Mr. Camdessus said, "because now we are dealing not only with immediate aid for rebuilding, but also for the reconstruction of a new and better country." As of last year, two-thirds of Nicaragua's foreign debt was with other governments and one-fourth with multilateral organizations like the I.M.F. and the World Bank. Most of the remainder was with commercial lenders or suppliers.
Austria, Cuba, France, Spain, the United States and other countries have announced that they will pardon all or some debts. Nicaragua owes more than $6 billion and Honduras $4.3 billion.
Both Governments have struggled for years to reduce the debts. The $300 million that Nicaragua owes each year is equivalent to 40 percent of all its exports.
The president of the Central Bank of Nicaragua, Noel Ramirez, estimated that the storm had caused $1.5 billion in damage. President Carlos Flores Facusse of Honduras has said damage there could exceed $4 billion.
Mr. Ramirez said Nicaragua had received $50 million in low-interest loans from the Inter-American Development Bank, $70 million from the World Bank and $50 million from the I.M.F.
Mr. Camdessus arrived here shortly after Hillary Rodham Clinton departed on Monday. Mrs. Clinton said the United States would double emergency aid to the region, to more than $250 million.
An adviser to Mr. Facusse told reporters today that no aid had reached 60,000 Miskito Indians on the Atlantic Coast.
"We are trying to bring humanitarian aid to the Miskitos," the adviser said. "But it is difficult to do that, because the zone can be only reached by canoe."
Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina of Cuba arrived today in Honduras with a 20-member medical team to add to Cuban workers who already helping in the region. Cuba says it has 103 doctors and 50 other health workers who are aiding hurricane victims in Central America.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Canada Suspends Debt
 By The New York Times
 TORONTO, Nov. 17 -- To help Honduras recover from the storm damage Canada will provide $65 million in aid over four years, the Foreign Ministry announced today. On Friday, Canada agreed to suspend $20 million in Honduran debt. Honduras will not have to pay principal or interest on the debt until a new repayment schedule is in place.
Nicaragua has no outstanding debt with Canada.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); HONDURAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS; NICARAGUA; NICARAGUA (99%); HONDURAS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; CREDIT; HURRICANE MITCH HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEATHER (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); 

PERSON: CAMDESSUS, MICHEL HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



468 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Blair Backs Clinton's Call for Iraqi Opposition Groups to Topple Hussein

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Prime Minister Tony Blair said today that Britain had evidence of growing opposition to President Saddam Hussein inside Iraq that would seem to give the Clinton Administration's new call for his overthrow a better chance of success than in the past.
In an interview in his 10 Downing Street office, Mr. Blair said, "I don't want to go into the detail of that too much, because that is obviously something we should discuss with the Americans, and we are not issuing promises here that we can't keep. 
 "But there is a buildup of concern within Iraq over the incredible damage he is doing to his own country. Now he may try to explain what has happened over the weekend, as he always does and even did at the end of the gulf war, as a wonderful victory, but our assessment is that the claims against him are only increasing."
Since 1991 the Central Intelligence Agency has come up with at least six plans to undermine the Iraqi leader, but they have fallen victim to quarrels among exile groups or have been crushed by Mr. Hussein's Republican Guards.
British security services have assisted propaganda campaigns by organizations like the Iraqi National Congress, a coalition of a dozen opposition groups based in London.
On Monday Mr. Blair told Parliament that Britain would join the American effort to strengthen coup-prone Iraqi dissident groups, a shift in British policy from one of containing Mr. Hussein to one of trying to remove him.
Mr. Blair said today that he fully supported the decision to call off the planned air strikes on Saturday and discounted the view that the events of the weekend had left Mr. Hussein more forceful than ever. Mr. Blair had given the go-ahead for British Tornado fighter-bombers to join American aircraft and cruise missiles in the attack.
The strikes were called off after the Iraqi leader sent word to the United Nations that he was prepared to resume cooperation with weapons inspectors.
"A lot of people, including some heads of government, think that Saddam Hussein wanted us to strike, that it would boost his position enormously -- that he was really encouraged by the possibility and that we were playing into his hands if we struck," Mr. Blair said.
"I didn't buy any of it," he added. "What the weekend proved is that the thesis is complete nonsense. This is a dictator who, when he saw we really were prepared to take action, completely crumpled. Now no one can seriously think in terms of the stream of clarifications -- written and oral -- that they were giving that they were anything other than pretty desperate not to be attacked."
Mr. Blair pointed to what he called another "lesson for the future" drawn from the experience. "There were people, even on our own side, who were asking, 'Do you really intend to carry this thing through?' " Mr. Blair said. "Well, I don't think there can be any doubt about that anymore.
"We were literally minutes away from the attack taking place, and the authorization had been given. So I think all those things put us in a stronger position for dealing with this thing in the future."
Mr. Blair said he found analyses that placed the United States and Britain in the same position with Mr. Hussein as after the last confrontation "clever but ultimately not very deep."
"In February when the memorandum of understanding was entered into, there had been a buildup over a period of months," he said. "This time there was really only two weeks between the 30th of October and the decision to use force. Next time there won't be any negotiation at all -- there will just be action. And I think by having built that strong base, by showing the international community that we were prepared to give every chance for Iraq to come back into compliance, that we've strengthened our hand."
On the subject of whether there was any hope that the Iraqi leader might now keep cooperating with the United Nations inspectors, Mr. Blair said: "Again, let's be very blunt here. Nobody relies on Saddam Hussein's good faith, because he doesn't have any. It doesn't follow from that, however, that now that he knows -- and I think he must surely understand and believe that we will take action -- that he will not come back into compliance."
Asked about charges that France might have tipped Mr. Hussein off to the timing of the attacks, Mr. Blair said, "The thought is there on paper, so obviously I have read it. I simply don't know if that is the case, and I hope it's not the case. I mean I can't believe that any country close to us would do such a thing."
Last week, a diplomat at the United Nations said, Britain's representative there, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, warned the French representative, Alain Dejammet, that it was difficult to conduct sensitive discussions in the Security Council when it was clear that the substance of talks was leaking immediately to the Iraqis.
In his 18 months in office, Mr. Blair has sought to make Britain a leader in European social and economic politics even while the country is staying out of the European monetary union, which begins in January. Asked in the interview if the perception that Britain was close to the United States aided or inhibited the country's efforts at associating itself more closely with Europe, Mr. Blair said, "I am a passionate believer that Britain does not have to choose between a relationship with the European Union and a relationship with the United States.
"I think this is really central to Britain's future, that we have to play a role to bring the U.S. and E.U. closer together in terms of understanding and cooperation across a whole range of issues, because you only have to look at this Iraq situation again to realize that if it weren't for the U.S., the world would be a far less secure place.
"At one level the European Union understands this, but it's important that we in Britain, if we are key players in Europe, are positive constructors and reinforce that sense."
As for monetary union, he said his Government was bent on preparing Britain for the beginning of the new European currency, the euro, next year and for the day when a promised referendum is held in Britain on whether the country should forsake the pound for the euro.
Britain's stepped-up activity in recent weeks in this regard has been widely interpreted as signaling acceptance of the decision that its entry is no longer in doubt, just its timing.
Mr. Blair said he still anticipated that any action would be after the next national election, or after about 2001. The British economy is performing better than most economies in Europe, and convergence at the moment would be detrimental to London.
"Monetary union cannot be conceived of except politically, but it can't work except economically," Mr. Blair said. "So we have set the test for us, we've eliminated all the barriers of principle, we're preparing the country, we're out there. We will publish in the next few weeks a national changeover plan to show people how it could work, but we have to reserve that final position until we see the clear economics."
Mr. Blair's status in European capitals has grown because center-left governments have come to power in most of them and because of the attraction of his vaunted "third way," which promises reduced state spending and regulation and growing opportunities for private enterprise. The most recent new arrival on the continental scene, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, made it a point to come to London on his first trip abroad after taking office.
Mr. Blair conceded today that there were contradictory approaches cohabiting the center-left rubric but argued that the many conceptual similarities would ease agreement.
"I think the values that underpin our policies of social justice, of community and of social cohesion are all very important," he said, "and we need totally new ways of, for example, reforming welfare and tax and benefit systems to encourage greater work and less dependency.
"We've got that opportunity and there are big structural changes that we can make in Europe, and I believe that it's easier for center-left parties to make changes. But that's a theory that has got to be tested now in practice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain spoke to Parliament Monday. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUPS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); TONY BLAIR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



469 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
Peace Plan Is Ratified By Israeli Parliament
Parliament approved the American-brokered peace plan by a strong majority, reflecting a widespread, pragmatic acceptance in Israel of partitioning the country. A1
 
The Israeli Army has begun clearing the way for a road linking a Jewish settlement to a highway in the West Bank. The road is one of the bypass roads that the Palestinians see as part of a plan to block the establishment of a Palestinian state there. A6 

Blair Sees Iraqi Resistance
Prime Minister Tony Blair said Britain had evidence of growing opposition inside Iraq to President Saddam Hussein that could enhance chances for his overthrow. A14
 
Many people in Kuwait and other Arab nations believe in a conspiracy theory that Mr. Hussein gives the West an excuse to keep military forces in the area. A14
 
United Nations weapons inspectors preparing to resume their work were greeted with fresh denunciations in the official Iraqi press. A14
 
Malaysia Scolds Gore
Malaysia denounced Vice President Al Gore for a speech in Kuala Lumpur and declared it would hold the United States responsible for outbreaks of "lawlessness." A14
 
China Debates Divorce Rules
Proposals to make divorce more difficult and to punish adulterers have stirred a rare and passionate public debate in China. A11
 
Pressure on I.R.A. Eases
The British and Irish Governments are relaxing pressure on the I.R.A. to disarm in a gradual but distinct change in policy. A13
 
Argentina Campaign Promises
The two leading opposition candidates vying for the Argentine presidency have pledged to make wide-ranging corruption inquiries into the current Government if they win. A12
 
Debt Relief in Central America
The head of the I.M.F. said he favored canceling 80 percent of the debts to the fund owed by Nicaragua and Honduras, which have been devastated by a hurricane. A9
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A20-28
 
Starr Formulates Approach To Impeachment Hearing
The independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr has rehearsed testimony for his appearance before the House Judiciary Committee tomorrow that details a pattern of obstruction by the White House extending beyond the Lewinsky matter, but he has not made a final decision on his statement's contents, lawyers said. A1
 
Republicans decided to call more witnesses in the impeachment inquiry, and the White House demanded more time to question Mr. Starr. A22
 
Recordings made by Linda Tripp of her conversations with Monica S. Lewinsky were made public. A1
 
G.O.P. Battle in the House
House Republicans choose their leaders today. Steve Largent failed to persuade Jennifer Dunn, a rival in a three-way contest for House majority leader, to quit. A26
 
Guidelines for Supplements
The F.T.C. is issuing, for the first time, advertising guidelines for the dietary supplement industry. A26
 
Criticism for Book on Cancer
A dispute has arisen over a best-selling book, "The Breast Cancer Prevention Diet: The Powerful Foods, Supplements and Drugs that Can Save Your Life," by Dr. Bob Arnot, an NBC correspondent. A28
 
Ethics of Hybrid-Cell Creation
The ethical implications of creating hybrid human-cow cells were discussed at a meeting of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. A26
 
College Smoking on Rise
Smoking among college students has substantially increased in recent years, a national survey showed. A28
 
Dinosaur Fossils With Skin
A fossil-hunting expedition in Argentina found fossilized embryos of dinosaurs whose delicate skin survived in mineralized form. A28
 
Satellites Appear Safe
There were no immediate reports that the Leonid meteor storm had damaged any satellites. A28
 
New Leaders of Bishops' Group
The National Conference of Catholic bishops elected Bishop Joseph A. Fiorenza of Texas president. Bishop Wilton D. Gregory of Illinois was elected vice-president, becoming the first African-American to hold one of the top two positions. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-13
 
Mayor and Council End Standoff Over the Budget
Mayor Giuliani will release most of the $150 million that he has withheld from the city budget since July and drop his opposition to the elimination of a 12.5 percent surcharge on personal income tax, ending a standoff with the City Council, which also made concessions. B1
 
Slow Pace for School Repairs
City school officials have completed only about a third of the major repair projects they identified as priorities when the plan was begun in 1994. B1
 
No Indictment of Rally Leader
A grand jury decided not to indict Khallid Abdul Muhammad for his actions at a Harlem rally that ended in violence, prosecutors said. B3
 
Cuomo vs. Giuliani?
Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo would not rule out running for the Senate from New York in 2000, and said Mayor Giuliani could be a formidable opponent. B5
 
Connecticut Courts Patriots
Gov. John G. Rowland has offered to build a stadium for the New England Patriots in Hartford. B5
 
Preparing for Teacher Strike
Officials of the Jersey City school district and its 36 schools were preparing last night for a possible teachers' strike this morning. B4
 
ARTS E1-14
 
DINING F1-18
 
EDUCATION B14
 
Ousted President Settles
Adelphi University agreed to a settlement with its ousted president, Dr. Peter Diamandopoulos, that leaves him with $1.4 million before taxes and resolves suits over his removal last year. B1

Teachers' Role Paramount
Americans see the quality of the teacher as the most important element in lifting student achievement, ahead of stronger curriculum and stricter discipline, a poll found. B14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
3d Rate Cut in 7 Weeks
The Fed cut interest rates again by a quarter of a percentage point to help keep a gradual economic slowdown from turning into a recession, but the central bank signaled that it might hold off on further reductions. A1
 
The decision to cut rates again was the final piece of a three-part strategy by the Clinton Administration and the Fed's chairman. C1
 
The Fed's announcement caused stocks to jump, but they faded to close mixed. The Dow finished down 24.97 points, at 8,986.28. C12
 
Microsoft Shipment Is Halted
A judge ordered Microsoft to stop shipping its version of Java, which is owned by Sun Microsystems. A1
 
Livent Considers Bankruptcy
Executives of Livent, the Broadway theater company that produces "Ragtime," are discussing whether the company should file for bankruptcy protection or take other action to appease creditors owed hundreds of millions of dollars. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B15
 
Weeb Ewbank
The football coach who led the Jets and the Baltimore Colts to momentous championships was 91. B15
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: The judiciary storm; a prudent move by the Fed; championing democracy in Malaysia.
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Crossword E4
 
Weather D4
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); WITNESSES (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); IMPEACHMENT (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (66%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); TONY BLAIR (73%); AL GORE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



470 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Reduces Interest Rates By Quarter of a Point Again
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates again by a quarter of a percentage point to help keep a gradual economic slowdown from turning into a recession, but it signaled it might hold off on further reductions in coming months.
The cut was the third by the central bank in seven weeks, and like the previous two it was driven by the concern that the global financial crisis was making it hard for companies to raise money, threatening the long expansion in the United States. In related economic news, prices consumers paid for goods and services rose a modest two-tenths of a percent in October, indicating inflation is tame and that sustained consumer spending has helped to diminish the danger of a recession. Page A1. 

Major Legal Setback for Microsoft
Microsoft, fighting a major challenge by the Government over the fairness of its business practices, suffered a legal setback on another front when a Federal judge in California ordered the company to stop shipping Internet software that he said violates its contract with a rival, Sun Microsystems. A1.
 
As the Government's antitrust trial against Microsoft continued, a senior I.B.M. executive accused Microsoft of imposing contract restrictions on other computer companies that prevented OS/2, I.B.M.'s personal-computer operating system, from effectively competing with Microsoft Windows. C6.
 
Novell and Cisco are to announce an agreement to make their software broadly compatible. The move was seen as a victory for Novell against Microsoft. C6.
 
Dow Falls; S.& P. and Nasdaq Rise
Stocks were mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 24.97 points, to 8,986.28. But the broader S.& P. 500 rose 3.45 points, to 1,139.32, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 16.84 points, to 1,878.52. C12.
 
New Economic Concerns for Japan
The decision by Moody's Investors Service to downgrade Japan's credit rating has called into question whether more than $800 billion worth of Government financial stimulants aimed at reversing a prolonged economic decline has done nothing. News Analysis. C2.
 
A meeting of Pacific Rim nations in Kuala Lumpur on how to ease Asia's economic crisis has been disrupted by an uproar over a speech by Vice President Al Gore in which he praised the Government opposition in Malaysia. A14.
 
Calvin Klein Entering Cyberspace
A campaign for the CK One fragrance from the Calvin Klein Cosmetics Company, left, uses a cast of fictional characters to encourage consumers to send E-mail to them. The about $10 million television, radio, print and outdoor campaign is indicative of marketers' efforts to capitalize on the increasing consumer use of personal computers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C7.
 
Trading of DaimlerChrysler Begins
Shares of DaimlerChrysler A.G. fell 43.75 cents, to $83.875, on their first official day of trading. The organization chart released by the newly merged auto maker gave further signs that German executives from the former Daimler-Benz would be the senior partners in the merged company. C2.
 
Earnings Strong for Some Retailers
Many of the nation's biggest retailers, including Dayton Hudson and J. C. Penney, reported third-quarter results that met Wall Street analysts' expectations. C11.
 
Waste Combination Challenged
Federal regulators will try to block Waste Management's planned $1 billion acquisition of Eastern Environmental Services, the two companies said. Both said they were confident the deal could be completed. C12.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,986.28, down 24.97
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.30%, up 0.01
The Dollar -- 121.00 yen, up 0.93
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Balance of Trade
 September figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$16.2 billion
 
Another graph tracks the percent change in consumer prices, from May through October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); DAI (FRA) (80%); DAI (BIT) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (80%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (52%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); CALVIN KLEIN COSMETICS CO (80%); DAIMLER AG (80%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); NOVELL INC (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); COSMETICS (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); JUDGES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); TOILETRIES MFG (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



471 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Fed Thinks Globally, Acts Locally, to Tepid Wall St. Response;
Part of the Game Plan In a Worldwide Defense

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's decision today to cut interest rates again marks the completion of a three-part strategy, put together over the last seven weeks by the Clinton Administration and Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, to insulate the American economy from the worst effects of the global economic turmoil that a few weeks ago seemed to threaten to explode into something far worse.
"It's not necessarily that things are better than on Oct. 1," a senior Administration official said today, "but people don't feel the world is in free fall." 
 Still, the market surge that has occurred since the Fed started cutting rates may be masking a disturbing reality: while emotions have cooled, little has changed in the economies of the stricken countries.
The latest projections released today by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, suggest that Japan, the world's second-largest economy, will not be growing again until 2000. Japan, where President Clinton is visiting this week on a shortened trip to Asia, keeps throwing money into the gaping holes of its economy, only to discover that the holes keep becoming deeper. South Korea, President Clinton's weekend stop, is backtracking on some reforms, but the Administration is desperate to show that its prescriptions are working, so Mr. Clinton is unlikely to chide President Kim Dae Jung in public.
In short, the Administration has bought some time -- but little else. "We had to deal first with rebuilding confidence, so that capital would stop flowing out of countries," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told a group of business executives here last week. "That situation is improving." But changing the way economies are run from Tokyo to Brasilia is messy business, he said -- a lesson he learned most recently and brutally in Russia.
Washington's strategy, which appeared to have been carefully co-ordinated, was laid out in pieces, first in speeches by President Clinton and Mr. Greenspan and then fleshed out by Mr. Rubin and his aides. While the Fed remains independent, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Greenspan have discussed the global crisis frequently and conducted some key discussions with allies together. They have often used similar language in describing America's objectives in calming the turmoil.
Part 1 of the strategy was to cut interest rates here and convince the world's investors that a global downturn, not inflation, was the biggest risk to nations worldwide.
Part 2 was to stabilize Brazil, with a $41.5 billion bailout package that was finally sealed last week, before that country's financial crisis became out of control. And Part 3 was to bolster several nations -- led by Japan -- that seemed stalled and unable to begin the painful cleanup of the nastiest banking crisis in a half-century.
The early returns on the world's stock markets are almost too encouraging. The Dow has risen 1,500 points, and in places like Thailand and South Korea, the countries first hit by the crisis, investors are driving up prices, hoping that Asia has hit bottom and can only rise now.
Here in Washington, there is little talk of "global economic meltdown," the chilling phrase whispered just a few weeks ago in the hallways of the Treasury, the White House and, just down the street, the International Monetary Fund.
The Administration's strategy grew out of the panic in Russia and was described for the first time in public on Sept. 14, in a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. The speech came at Mr. Clinton's lowest moment; Kenneth W. Starr's report to Congress had been delivered just days before. The next week, the Federal Reserve learned about the depths of the troubles at Long-Term Capital Management L.P., the huge troubled hedge fund in Greenwich, Conn.
But for several weeks it was unclear whether any of the Administration's prescriptions could be applied as cohesively as Mr. Clinton, Mr. Rubin and others tried to suggest.
"In those weeks it could have gone either way," said one senior official of an international organization involved with the Administration on these issues. "And the fact is, we got lucky -- at least for a while."
The Fed cut rates for the second time on Oct. 15, recovering from an early miscalculation when it announced a quarter-point cut while world markets were looking for more. European nations, after appearing to resist coordinated action, got on board after an early-October meeting of the World Bank and the I.M.F. created an atmosphere of imminent economic doom. And the new German Government began pressing the Bundesbank to loosen monetary policy.
Even the Japanese began to act, announcing both a bank restructuring plan and an economic stimulus package. Both were riddled with holes. But in markets, as in politics, the appearance of action is often more important than the action itself. And the message was that Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, unlike his predecessor, was fully engaged in solving the problem. That sense was heightened on Monday when the United States and Japan, while still arguing over market openings, jointly released a $10 billion program to bolster Southeast Asia's economies.
The fear now is that the stock market surges could take the pressure off governments around the world, just as they are starting to tackle the toughest reforms.
"The countries we need to be strongly concerned about are Brazil and Japan," said Daniel K. Tarullo, Mr. Clinton's top international economic adviser until earlier this year. "I don't think the Brazilians feel that the pressure is off, at least yet. And the problem in Japan is that they haven't felt enough to begin with."
But the history of the global financial crisis thus far is that the shock has come from someplace where no one was looking -- and where the effects have been greater than anyone expected. That is what happened with Indonesia, and then with Russia. And it explains why so many in the Administration are talking up their successes while keeping an eye on China, Hong Kong and Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BANKS AND BANKING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BANK FAILURES (62%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



472 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Federal Reserve Cuts Key Rates In Its 3d Attack on Global Slump

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates again by a quarter of a percentage point today to help keep a gradual economic slowdown from turning into a recession, but the central bank signaled it might hold off on further reductions in coming months.
The cut was the third in seven weeks, and like the previous two it was driven by the concern that the global financial crisis was making it hard for companies to raise money, threatening the long expansion in the United States. 
 In reducing rates but suggesting that investors should not count on further cuts, the Federal Reserve was walking a line between calming Wall Street's fears of global turmoil and giving too much stimulation to an economy that has shown surprising resilience in the face of shocks from abroad.
With the outlook for further rate cuts now uncertain, the markets reacted with ambivalence. Down 75 points just before the Fed's announcement at 2:20 this afternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average pushed 75 points into positive territory after the announcement, then fell back again and closed at 8,986.28, off 24.97 points for the day. Page C12.
Still, the rate cuts over the last several months have helped fuel a remarkable rebound in the stock market while providing considerable reassurance to other countries. After plunging in late summer, the Dow is back within striking distance of its high of 9,337.97, amid a general sense that the worst of the global crisis may have passed.
The Federal Reserve said today that it would cut the main short-term rate it controls, the Federal funds target rate for overnight loans between banks, to 4.75 percent from 5 percent. It said it would also reduce its discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent.
The move should help bolster the economy by making it slightly cheaper for businesses and consumers to borrow. Several banks quickly reduced the prime rate they charge business borrowers to 7.75 percent from 8 percent.
The cut in the discount rate was something of a surprise, analysts said, and underscored the Federal Reserve's determination to deal with a credit squeeze that has eased in the last few weeks but is still pronounced by historical standards. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has been particularly concerned for the last several months about the jittery bond market, where investors have been shunning all forms of debt except those that are the safest and the most easily sold.
"Although conditions in the financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said in explaining the cut.
The statement, however, added that after three quarter-point reductions in the Federal funds rate since late September, the economy should be on more of an even keel. Financial conditions, the Fed statement said, "can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion while keeping inflationary pressures subdued."
Although some economists still think the Fed will lower rates again at its next meeting, on Dec. 22, many analysts took the statement to mean that the Fed would cut rates again only if the markets or the economy show new signs of distress.
"It was a clever statement to break up any presumption that the Fed has to continue easing," said Kenneth T. Mayland, chief economist at Keycorp in Cleveland.
The Fed, Mr. Mayland said, will look closely at the strength of holiday retail sales and at the stability of the financial markets. If it sees clear evidence that the economy is deteriorating, he said, the Fed will no doubt consider cutting rates again in December and may well ease them again further down the road if the economy continues to slow. But the central bank does not want to be forced into moving again in December just because the markets assume it will, Mr. Mayland said.
"The Fed's options are now open," he said.
The central bank's policy committee met today just minutes after the Labor Department reported that inflation was negligible in October, with the Consumer Price Index rising just two-tenths of a percent. The news was presumably reassuring to Fed officials, who have seen the absence of wage and price pressures as a somewhat perplexing but welcome development that has given them considerable flexibility in responding to the global crisis.
Some economists say the Fed should nonetheless pay more attention to the possibility that the combination of interest rate cuts and continued underlying strength in the economy will push up inflation next year.
Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at the BankAmerica Corporation, said the financial markets were returning to normal and that companies were again lining up to sell their bonds. Growth in the money supply, a critical gauge of future inflation, is running at high levels, he said. At the same time, he said, consumption of goods and services in the United States remained robust and unemployment remained low, a traditional recipe for inflation.
While Fed officials say they have been remarkably united over the last several months in their decisions to cut rates, analysts said the more strident inflation fighters within the central bank were no doubt growing nervous about taking the easing policy too far.
Mr. Greenspan, however, appears to have set aside, at least for now, his concern that stock prices were getting too high. Instead he seems intent on insuring that an incipient credit squeeze in the bond market and among banks is contained and reversed before considering the easing process complete.
Maury N. Harris, an economist at Paine Webber, said the Fed might have been influenced in its decision today by the results of an unreleased survey of bank loan officers, asking whether lenders were tightening lending standards. Mr. Harris also said that while capital markets in the United States appeared to be calming down, conditions abroad remained worrisome.
The American economy is also taking a hit from the global crisis in the form of reduced exports. The Commerce Department is scheduled to disclose the nation's trade deficit for September on Wednesday, and most economists are saying that exports, especially to Asia, will remain depressed, while imports in politically sensitive industries like steel will increase.
The pressure being placed on American manufacturers from falling exports and increased import competition led big companies and business groups to applaud the rate cut today. Robert J. Eaton, the co-chairman of DaimlerChrysler A.G., said the rate cut was clearly "a signal they're willing to do whatever is necessary to keep this economy moving."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Third Time's the Charm?"
The Federal Reserve lowered interest rates yesterday for the third time in seven weeks. Graph tracks the Federal funds target rate and the discount rate, since 1987. (Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; PRIME RATE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BOND MARKETS (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (63%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



473 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2845 words

HEADLINE: THE HIDDEN CITY: A special report.;
Hard Times for Russia's Nuclear Centers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: KRASNOYARSK-26, Russia

 BODY:
When Andrei B. Sokolov came to this nuclear city more than 30 years ago, it was a bastion of privilege for the Soviet Union's scientific elite.
Its very existence was a state secret. Behind barbed-wire fences and hidden inside a mountain, three nuclear reactors produced tons of plutonium for the country's nuclear arsenal. Its scientists, the nation's brightest, lived the Soviet dream: the best food and wages the Kremlin could provide. 
 Krasnoyarsk-26 remains closed off from the world. But these days it is an impoverished ward of the state, and a vexing worry for Russian and American officials who fear that Russia's best scientists will leave for aspiring nuclear powers like Iran and Iraq.
One of the city's top nuclear specialists, the 58-year-old Mr. Sokolov sometimes goes months without his meager salary. His wife, Nadezhda, helps make ends meet by canning cabbages, cucumbers and tomatoes from their dacha garden, and she cannot look back without a twinge of regret.
"It was better then," Mrs. Sokolov said. "The city was clean. Everything was in abundance. There was no economic panic. We were young and everything seemed beautiful to us."
While the Sokolovs are stoical about the future, nobody can be sure about the thousands of other specialists in Russia's 10 nuclear cities.
The Russian Government has become so concerned about the tumbling morale of its top nuclear scientists that it has ordered its security services to monitor them secretly, Russia's Minister of Atomic Energy said in an interview.
In Washington, the Energy Department has pledged as much as $30 million in assistance through 1999 to start up new Russian businesses in the hope that the enterprises will be able to attract hundreds of millions more in Western investment.
But critics worry that the aid is too little to make a difference. And with Russia's economy in crisis and investors fleeing, attracting foreign investment is harder than ever.
As winter begins creeping about the heartland, nuclear workers have taken to the streets to demand back pay. Power shortages threaten to shut down electronic security systems intended to safeguard stores of bomb-grade materials.
Guards at nuclear laboratories have left their posts to search for food. A sergeant at the Mayak storage center in the Urals, where more than 30 tons of plutonium is stored, cracked under the pressure and shot two fellow soldiers before fleeing with his assault rifle.
Krasnoyarsk-26 has endured its share of tribulations: a restive work force, months of unpaid wages and the temporary shutdown of its lone nuclear reactor, which forced residents to endure the bitter Siberian chill.
"The situation in the nuclear closed cities is very close to catastrophic," said Viktor Orlov, director of the Moscow-based Center for Policy Studies and an expert on Russia's nuclear program.
 
The City
Huge Fortress Built With Slave Labor
The armed guards at the checkpoint for Krasnoyarsk-26 provide a sobering reminder to visitors that they are about to enter a state within a state.
Outsiders must get the blessing of the Federal Security Service, the heir to the K.G.B. Passports are inspected and, in the case of foreigners, escorts provided.
The residential heart of this city of seven square miles gives a hint of its past glory. There is an artificial lake with three beaches. Its movie theater, which used to receive first-run Soviet films the day after they appeared in Moscow, displays an ad for the American film "Titanic."
There are more sports centers than in most Russian cities of this size, and a well-tended park, which features a statue of Lenin staring vacantly into space. (It had been looking approvingly at Stalin before Nikita S. Khrushchev de-Stalinized the nation and the dictator's statue was removed.)
The train station that the city's scientists and engineers use to go to work looks like a typical suburban platform, save for the fact it is protected by a picket of armed Interior Ministry guards and services an electric train that heads straight into a fortified mountain.
The subterranean complex at the other end of a three-mile-long tunnel is a cavernous, multi-story honeycomb of nuclear reactors, plutonium laboratories, cafeterias and workshops -- some 3,500 rooms in all.
It is the mountain that persuaded Stalin and Lavrenti P. Beria, his secret police chief, to build the complex in this remote stretch of Siberia. The peak, they calculated, would shelter the complex against an American nuclear strike, enabling the Soviet Union to produce bomb-grade plutonium after a nuclear war. The nearby Yenisei River, one of Siberia's mightiest, would cool the plutonium-generating reactors.
No efforts were spared to turn this cold war project into a reality. The chief construction engineers held military rank. Most of the brawn, however, was provided by slave labor.
According to the city's records, some 70,000 prisoners worked here from 1950 to 1964, digging out the mountain -- excavating more rock than was used to build Egypt's largest Pyramid.
Many of the prisoners were veterans, farmers and workers, who may have done little more than steal a sack of potatoes to feed their families. Several hundred foreigners were also brought here for forced labor, including, the city's punctilious records show, prisoners from Germany, Poland, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Spain, Finland and "one Negro."
The streets of Krasnoyarsk-26 are named after Soviet heroes and city founders, but the only trace of the prisoners is the pitiful plot of overgrown and unmarked graves, which straddle the border of the town. Now, some graves have been defaced by local vandals while others have been covered by a garage.
 
The Past
Years of Privilege Take Their Toll Now
Krasnoyarsk-26's privileged past has made its present troubles harder for many of its residents to bear. Unlike Russia's sorry factory towns or collective farms, this city got used to being a pampered enclave for the country's top engineering talent, and many inhabitants cannot look back without a nagging sense of regret.
"The early days were full of enthusiasm," said Ivan S. Mashkovtsev, a former K.G.B. official who used to oversee security at the nuclear complex.
Its work force earned 50 percent more than its counterparts outside the city gates. Food was ample, and there was no rationing or standing in line. Vacations were generous: 36 work days a year and 48 days for those who labored inside the mountain.
The sense of national purpose was fortified by iron-handed secrecy. For the first few years, none of the residents were allowed to leave. Later, when travel within the Soviet Union was allowed, the word "plutonium" was stripped from their vocabulary. If anyone asked, they could say they worked for an iron ore mine or lived on a military base.
There were no telephone lines connecting Krasnoyarsk-26 to nearby cities and villages; the telephone lines used by the top leadership ran straight to Moscow.
Because the city was left off Soviet maps, residents called it Krasnoyarsk-26, using the number on the post office box where their mail was sent at the open city of Krasnoyarsk, 40 miles south.
Krasnoyarsk's plutonium industry did not stay secret for long. According to Russian officials, American intelligence learned about the reactors in the 1963, several years after its second reactor began to operate.
Still, Krasnoyarsk-26's reactors kept churning away. According to some Western estimates, they produced more than 40 tons of the bomb-grade plutonium, about one-third of the plutonium used to build the Soviet arsenal.
Now, with plutonium plentiful in the world, two of the three reactors here have been shut down. The remaining reactor provides heat for the city. It still produces plutonium as a byproduct, which is separated from the reactor's nuclear waste and stored as a powder for safekeeping.
To many, the loss of Krasnoyarsk-26's cold war mission has been a devastating psychological blow.
"The main problem is probably not the loss of material wealth," Mr. Mashkovtsev said. "The problem is the way people look at the nuclear industry. People here feel as if they are unneeded especially when they hear others say that everything they did was unnecessary."
 
The Present
Shortage of Money Breeds Suffering
For Valery Lebedev, the director of Krasnoyarsk-26's nuclear operations and a veteran of the city, holding the complex together is an increasingly daunting task.
Some 10,000 people still work at the nuclear complex. But it has received only two-thirds of the Government funds it was expecting this year.
"The prices have increased, but we cannot raise wages, because we do not even pay people what they are supposed to be paid," Mr. Lebedev said. "We try to do our best to pay something. If we don't have money, we give food."
The money crunch has taken its toll. Even keeping the lone reactor running is not a simple proposition.
In September, a budget shortfall delayed a shipment of uranium fuel. Then workers in the radio-chemistry laboratory, where plutonium is separated from the nuclear waste, mounted a brief protest. The reactor was out of operation for weeks, leaving the city without heat.
"We are concerned when a person has to think all the time about how to feed his family," Mr. Lebedev said. "That's not a good time to carry out some important operations."
It is also affecting arms control efforts. Moscow has promised the United States to covert Krasnoyarsk-26's lone operating reactor and two similar reactors at another closed city, Tomsk-7, so that they no longer produce plutonium by 2000. But Russian officials said the conversion would almost certainly have to be delayed because of budgetary and technical problems.
Without generous funds from Moscow, the city's character has begun to change. It is quieter, greener and safer than most than most Russian cities. But it is not walled from the problems of modern-day Russia.
The shortage of funds has affected the city's medical services, which suspended all but emergency operations in August when medicine and surgical gloves ran out.
Like other scientists, the Sokolovs have felt the blow. They live in a cramped, but tidy apartment, crowded with books and pictures of grandchildren.
Tall, lean and graced with an impish sense of humor, Mr. Sokolov relishes his work and his colleagues and regales guests with tales of his trips through the still untamed taiga, the storied Siberian wilderness that stretches north to the Arctic tundra.
Their rewards for long years of service behind the barbed-wire city limits, however, is a meager one. Mr. Sokolov's salary, sometimes delayed for months, is 2,500 rubles a month (about $150). Mrs. Sokolov, a chemist, has been paid more regularly, but receives only 500 rubles a month ($30).
Their salaries are supplemented by small pensions, granted in recognition of their decades of toil. Each receives 580 rubles a month ($34).
Their children have delivered their verdict on the city's future. The Sokolovs' son works in the city, but their two daughters, who received scientific degrees, moved away years ago and have no desire to return.
Pensioners and laid-off workers have an even harder time than the Sokolovs.
Valentina F. Mazurova worked as a construction engineer when Krasnoyarsk-26 was a boom town. A sturdy women with an engaging smile, she has given up her dreams of travel, and she supplements her monthly pension by selling dried fruit and raisins in the outdoor market. On a good day, she may earn 30 rubles ($2).
Others residents have turned to the world outside the wire for work. Each weekday morning, several thousand pile into a caravan of cars and buses that snakes its way to the city of Krasnoyarsk.
Mr. Lebedev would like to see the city opened up. That, he believes, would bring new business and money into the city less dependent on the dying military sector.
Few residents, however, agree. They see the barbed-wire fences as a final barrier against the turmoil sweeping the land and want to keep Krasnoyarsk-26 closed despite the economic costs.
"The stronger the crisis, the more people want to live in isolation," said Andrei V. Katargin, the Mayor of Zheleznogorsk, the name of the residential area inside the fences.
 
The Future
Replacement Jobs Desperately Needed
In Moscow, the closed cities have become a heavy burden for Yevgeny Adamov, Russia's Atomic Energy Minister. Krasnoyarsk-26 is just part of the problem. The director of the nuclear design center Chelyabinsk-70 killed himself in 1996, as that closed city faltered under the weight of unpaid wages.
Morale is so low that Mr. Adamov regularly lectures the authorities in the nuclear cities not to pay plumbers and common laborers more than nuclear scientists. The approaching winter threatens to make a bad situation worse.
Closing down the cities is not an option. They are still needed to disassemble weapons and safeguard nuclear materials, and nobody wants to tempt their scientists to go abroad.
As the cities have deteriorated, Russian intelligence has begun secretly monitoring top Russian scientists, whose bomb-designing skills would be particularly valuable to an aspiring nuclear power or to the United States, Mr. Adamov said. The United States itself is worried about Russian scientists' leaving to help Iraq, Iran, North Korea and other aspiring nuclear powers. It has agreed to provide money for their employers to switch to non-nuclear ventures.
The Russians "call them sensitive professions," Mr. Adamov said, "and we know all these people by name. Even they don't know that they are in this group. We make sure they are provided for."
The Atomic Energy Ministry's long-term plan is to cut the nuclear work force by as much as a third and create an equivalent number of new jobs in the commercial sector. Of the three-quarter of a million people who live in the closed cities, 125,000 work directly in the nuclear enterprises.
"People in the closed cities are like children," Mr. Adamov said. "The gap between ordinary cities and the free market is quite big, but the gap between people who lived in a closed city and a market economy is enormous."
The stakes are so high that the United States Energy Department has forged an unusual collaboration with the Atomic Energy Ministry, its former archrival. While the $30 million the department has earmarked for new businesses is a small sum, the funds cannot even be disbursed until Congress reviews the spending plan early next year. The department plans to increase its financing to $60 million in 2000.
The Energy Department is also planning to spend $200 million to help Russia dispose of plutonium. That will also involve work in the closed cities, though it is not clear exactly how those funds will be spent and how much will go to American contractors.
"The cities were in trouble before, but now they are getting desperate, said Kenneth Luongo, a former Energy Department official and the head of the Russian-American National Security Advisory Council, a private group that focuses on the problems of the closed cities. "What little economic progress there was is being erased, and serious action is required to prevent further deterioration."
 
The Task
Luring Investment Is Very Difficult
At Krasnoyarsk-26, Mr. Lebedev has not given up hope. His dream is to transform his complex into a high-tech commercial center, a sort of Silicon Valley of Russia. He has tried one plan after to try to lure business here, but little has happened.
A plan to assemble Samsung televisions collapsed after import tariffs on electronic components were raised. He also drafted a plan to make his city a tax-free zone for foreign investors. But the Government never acted.
The complex is so desperate it would like to make money storing nuclear waste. But Russian law forbids it from accepting nuclear waste from abroad.
These days Krasnoyarsk-26 is counting on the construction of a $200 million factory to produce silicon for computer chips. The Defense Enterprise Fund, a Pentagon-financed group that is trying to help Russia convert its military industry to civilian production, has paid for some of the planning. The Russian Government has already spent several million dollars to grow silicon crystals.
Krasnoyarsk-26, however, still needs to line up major Western investors. With Asia in a recession and the United States and Europe possibly on the brink of a slowdown, persuading foreign companies to sink hundreds of millions of dollars in a Siberian nuclear city is extremely difficult.
As investors ponder their hand, Mr. Lebedev is weighed down by more immediate worries. This summer, he sent his Moscow superiors a blunt memo describing where this once-proud city was headed.
"Wage payments are three months behind schedule," he wrote. "The social tension in the shops and factories has reached the critical level, and its consequences are unpredictable."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker and the dismantled control board of one of the deactivated reactors at Krasnoyarsk-26. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Krasnoyarsk-26's nuclear complex lies inside a mountain at the end of a three-mile tunnel, shown at left when it was being built. A worker walked down one of the corridors of the complex, where 10,000 are still employed but two of three reactors are shut down. (James Hill for The New York Times); Although Krasnoyarsk-26 is now an impoverished ward of the Russian state, the residential heart of the nuclear city still hints at its past glory as a pampered enclave of scientists and engineers. Here people waited for buses in the main square on Lenin Street. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 
Map/Chart: "IN TRANSITION -- Nuclear Cities: Struggling To Survive"
With the end of the cold war, Russia's nuclear cities no longer receive favored treatment. The cities, still closed to the rest of the world, are struggling to transform them-selves into modern commercial centers. Map of Russia highlights locations of key nuclear cities. (Source: Russian-American Nuclear Security Advisory Council)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; IRAQ; IRAN; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BACK PAY (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POWER FAILURES (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INWARD INVESTMENT (67%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



474 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Pact, Giuliani and Council Drop a Tax Surcharge

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration agreed yesterday to release most of the $150 million that it had withheld from nonprofit groups since July, completing a budget deal with the City Council that also eliminates a 12.5 percent surcharge on the personal income tax of New York City residents.
The compromise came after a five-month standoff between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, who had pushed for both the release of the money for the nonprofit groups and the elimination of the surcharge. Although Mr. Giuliani had initially opposed eliminating the surcharge, he said yesterday that he had changed his mind months ago. 
 For its part, the Council agreed to save $165 million it had earmarked for debt reduction, putting the money into a reserve fund instead, as the Mayor had insisted. It also agreed to allot $15 million for renovations to the Museum of Modern Art, something else Mr. Giuliani had wanted, but that the Council cut from the budget in the spring. The Council also agreed to phase in weekly recycling throughout the city, instead of starting it immediately. Page B8.
"There is no more question about the funding of the budget," a beatific Mr. Vallone said at an afternoon news conference. "And hopefully, we will be able to propel the city into the next century not only in good fiscal shape, but with the quality-of-life items that must be part of the greatest city in the world."
The Mayor said he had stopped resisting the elimination of the income tax surcharge because the surcharge would expire on Dec. 31, and the city could not continue it without the State Legislature's approval. He said the city would have to make budget cuts during the next few years to make up for the loss of the 12.5 percent surcharge, which was first imposed in 1991 and brings the city $550 million a year in tax revenues.
"My objection to the tax cut was not doing the tax cut," Mr. Giuliani said in a news conference. "It was the order in which it was done. First you should reduce the spending, then you cut the taxes."
For a married couple with two children and annual earnings of $50,000, the elimination of the surcharge will save $123 a year. A single person earning $50,000 will save $208, and a single parent with two children and earnings of $50,000 will save $177.
The surcharge does not affect commuters paying the nonresident city income tax.
But at City Hall yesterday, the attention focused not on the tax relief but on Mr. Giuliani's agreement to release all but $20 million of the $150 million in funds that he and the Council had been fighting over since the $34 billion city budget was approved in June. The Council had earmarked the money for public schools, nonprofit agencies and community groups, but Mr. Giuliani refused to spend it, saying it was merely pork-barrel spending to improve Mr. Vallone's chances in the race for governor.
During his campaign, Mr. Vallone accused the Mayor of withholding the money because the Speaker opposed his plan to use tax money to build a new Yankee Stadium in Manhattan. Although both men insisted the battle was more about money than politics, it ended the day after Mr. Vallone lost the governor's race, when they met for the first time in months and agreed to fashion a compromise.
Mr. Vallone and his staff appeared more excited about the budget agreement yesterday than did Mr. Giuliani, who gruffly said he was releasing the money only because the Council had agreed to cuts in other areas. In particular, Mr. Giuliani said he was happy that the Council was shifting $165 million from debt reduction into the reserve fund, which will now have a total of $465 million.
"I will achieve the overall objective of keeping spending way below the rate of inflation," Mr. Giuliani said of the compromise, "which is the way that any executive has to discipline a legislature."
Most of the money that Mr. Giuliani had withheld during his standoff with Mr. Vallone will pay for social and cultural programs, including foster-care and day-care programs; meals delivered at home and other programs for the elderly; library programs, and alternatives to jail. About $8 million will be used for the weekly recycling pickups, which will be phased into every sanitation district during 18 months.
The nonprofit groups that had been caught up in the budget fight had complained bitterly, saying the loss of revenue had affected services for children, the elderly and the poor. Most never had to cut services, but they were not able to meet an increasing demand for their programs. Some took out loans, while others sought out private and state grants.
As part of the budget compromise, the city's allocation to the groups was cut by a total of $20 million. But officials of several nonprofit groups said yesterday that their organizations could endure the loss.
For the Legal Aid Society, it means receiving only half of the extra $10 million that the City Council had allotted for the organization.
"We are happy to get just half of it, because half the year is already gone," said Danny Greenberg, president of the Legal Aid Society. "With this money, we will be able to hire more lawyers and other staff."
Despite talk in City Hall about saving money through the compromise, the city budget is actually increasing by $600 million, to $34.7 billion from $34.1 billion, partly to absorb unforeseen costs like police overtime and a health insurance rate increase for city workers, aides to Mr. Vallone said yesterday. But unanticipated tax revenues and state and Federal funds will cover most of the added costs, they said.
Throughout the budget battle, the Mayor pointed to the recent uncertainty on Wall Street and warned that the city could face serious problems. But Mr. Vallone cheerfully predicted yesterday that the next budget process, which gets under way in January, would be easier.
"We are beginning the new budget sequence, which begins just two months from now, in very good shape," he said. "The city is as secure financially as it could possibly be."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT THE TABLE: Give and Take"
Ending a tense six-month standoff yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the City Council agreed to a final budget more than four months into the fiscal year.
 
What the Mayor Got
 
-- The Council agreed to save $165 million it had earmarked for debt reduction, putting the money in a rainy day fund instead.
-- $15 million for renovations to the Museum of Modern Art.
-- A longer phasing-in for a weekly recycling program.
 
What the Council Got
 
-- Mayor Giuliani agreed to release most of the $150 million that he had withheld.
This included:
-- $22 million for library systems and $22 million for cultural affairs.
-- $15 million for the Board of Education.
-- $18 million for additional day care slots.
(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CHILDREN (84%); APPROVALS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); MARRIAGE (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



475 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: A Fight to Preserve Abandoned Asylums;
Sales Seen as Threat to Landmarks Of Architecture and Idealism

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

DATELINE: UTICA, N.Y.

 BODY:
More than a century ago, aproned nurses in starched white caps bustled along highly polished corridors in this city's elegant insane asylum, a limestone monument to the prevailing Victorian belief that mental illness could be improved with air, light -- and imposing architecture.
Now, after 20 years of neglect, the corridors are unheated ruins; their cornflower-blue walls are shedding saucer-sized flakes of paint. Trefoil-embossed stair treads are brushed with rust. Graffiti and smashed windows deface the summer porch, and the glass blocks imbedded in the dusty floors, once a revolutionary means of seducing light, have become a possible death trap. 
 The Empire State Development Corporation, acting on Gov. George E. Pataki's platform of privatization, is beginning to decide which developers will buy this and 11 other obsolete mental hospitals scattered throughout the state, from the South Shore of Long Island to the St. Lawrence River. In most cases, the developers do not want the antique asylums, some of which have been elevated to national landmark status. Instead, they covet the hundreds of acres surrounding them, the potentially lucrative open land fronting rivers and highways.
So preservationists, many of whom have been working to protect the buildings since some closed decades ago, fear that the asylums will be demolished or left to deteriorate further. And they worry there is little they can do to save them.
"There's not much else we can do," said William C. Bolger, who runs the National Historic Landmark program for the National Park Service in the Northeast, and who labeled New York's historic asylums among the country's most endangered landmarks in his last report. "The state owns them and they have the right to sell them."
What is at stake, though, is a big chunk of the state's architectural legacy. While there are 19th century asylums scattered throughout the country, New York State is known among preservation historians for its wealth of them. Of only 10 mental hospitals designated as national landmarks throughout the nation, four are in New York.
Of the four, three are being sold by the state: a turreted castle fit for King Arthur in Binghamton, an elaborate Venetian fantasy of bluestone, limestone and brick in Poughkeepsie, and the austere columned limestone palace here, with its eight-foot-wide, 48-foot-tall Doric columns.
In the report nominating the Utica State Hospital, now called the Mohawk Valley Psychiatric Center, state preservation historians wrote that the Main Building was "one of the most powerful architectural statements in the Greek Revival style built during America's 19th century years." Equally glowing descriptions accompany the other landmarks singled out for recognition.
Although the three asylums have been deemed National Historic Landmarks, the designation has little legal force, especially if the properties are sold to private interests. And in their pursuit to save the buildings, the preservationists have struggled to solve a thorny problem: what to do with the abandoned asylums.
Unlike other conversions, like turning a warehouse or school into loft apartments, finding new uses for a mental hospital can be sticky. Mr. Bolger admits that transforming an asylum into, say, garden condominiums might be tough. Would anybody want to live in condominiums in the brick shell of the Hudson River State Hospital for the Insane?
When the imposing structures opened their grand carved doors in the mid-to-late 19th century, they stood at the forefront of psychiatric care. But as the 20th century wore on, the state started cutting their budgets, and jamming more and more patients into them.
"The Victorians started off with a wonderful reformist idea," said Dr. Roger Christenfeld, the research director at the Hudson River Psychiatric Center, the latest name for the Poughkeepsie asylum. "They were tremendously idealistic and their ideas were indeed therapeutic. But over the next decades, the funds dwindled, while there seemed to be an ever-increasing number of people in need."
In the past, preservation groups tried to recycle the buildings with new uses. In Binghamton, one group thought they had the solution in 1997: a state senator said there was money to fix up the building if tenants were found. But by the time a group of nonprofit agencies signed letters of intent, the building was on a list to be offered to developers.
There was, however, one last-minute reprieve. In Buffalo, where a brooding assemblage of stone towers by H.H. Richardson was slated for the bidding block, Mayor Anthony Masiello asked to withdraw the 1880 building from the sale. Mr. Masiello said he wanted the city to control what happens to the land and is considering a new magnet school and housing for the 87-acre site.
Peter Brink, a vice president at the private National Trust for Historic Preservation, said that within the next month -- preferably before the properties are actually transferred to developers -- he hoped to help sponsor a one-day workshop to draft reuse goals for another asylum, the one in Poughkeepsie, with conclusions that might apply to all the threatened asylums.
And Bernadette Castro, New York's Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, said she would contiue to try to secure covenants from Charles A. Gargano, Empire State's chairman, to protect the historic buildings. But she conceded, "If it's a choice of not developing the property at all, well, we know we've got to be flexible."
Altogether, there are 20 mental institutions -- a dozen in this first phase -- that will be sold off by Empire State Development. Combined, they cost the state $40 million a year in property maintenance and debt service, said Patrick Panero, the Empire State official who is running the sales. The transfers to developers will bring untold millions in sale prices and increased taxes, and generate jobs.
The developers will bid money only -- there is no place on the form to explain what they want to do with the land and buildings. Nevertheless, Mr. Panero speculated that on Long Island, where four of the properties will be sold, the buildings, less significant architecturally and historically, may be razed for offices and new housing for senior citizens.
Preservation advocates complain that in some press releases announcing the sale, Empire State does not even mention the buildings. For example, the description of the hospital in Poughkeepsie -- with its High Victorian Italianate building and wings by the noted church architect Frederick Clarke Withers, and a landscape by Frederick Law Olmsted (who was a co-designer of Central Park) -- appears this way in a news release:
"A 387-acre property east of Route 9 with a nine-hole golf course in Poughkeepsie, Dutchess County, in the desirable Hudson Valley; the site is accessible to major highways and is minutes from the Poughkeepsie train station served by Amtrak and Metro North."
Yet Mr. Panero said it was doubtful that developers would tear down all of the Poughkeepsie complex. If a developer offered to reuse a historic structure, he explained, the project might be eligible for a 20 percent tax credit. "With properties like Hudson River," he said, referring to the Poughkeepsie center, "the Federal tax credits are the thing that makes it feasible."
One developer, who is bidding on the Poughkeepsie property and who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he hoped to preserve much of the main building, although he would gut the inside to introduce modern amenities like air-conditioning.
The developer envisions a multitude of uses, including hotel rooms to serve neighboring colleges including Vassar and Marist, along with some faculty housing. In the small antique brick buildings that once housed the asylum laundry and butcher shop, he sees one or more restaurants.
A more modern concrete building on the site, the Chaney Memorial Building, still houses 270 patients who, after the sale, will move to another building higher on the hill that is not included in the offering. The 1950's building, with vaguely Art Deco touches like bow-fronted windows, has Hudson River views, and other developers have said they would immediately turn it into apartments.
In Binghamton, the psychiatric center sits vacant on a hill. The building closed its five-inch-thick mahoghany doors in 1993, after having been used as offices for administrators who supervise the patients in the much newer Garvin Center below it.
Inside, the 1858 building is in the best shape of the three structures: the heat has been kept on. There is a surprisingly intact oak-paneled room with an elaborate carved mantle, tiny brown brick-shaped tiles and a surfeit of drawers; one contains dozens of empty glass cigar tubes.
In 1993, when the roof of the turreted asylum sprang a leak, state workers decided to hack off the stone crenellations at the top of the eight turrets. It wasn't easy. It also wasn't the source of the leak.
Preservationists, who have worried about the fate of the castlelike hospital for years, use the example of the battlements to argue against demolition. "It won't be easy to knock it down," said Ruth S. Levy, past president of the Preservation Association of the Southern Tier.
And it won't be cheap. In many cases, that is what keeps the buildings standing: their old-fashioned, overbuilt construction, usually of stone or brick.
But in Travers City, Mich., the site of another behemoth landmark, the Northern Michigan Asylum, the state's economic development corporation has approved a private development plan to demolish the 1885 hospital to build housing for elderly people.
That plan has been delayed -- after preservationists protested -- pending a survey on how much it would cost to stabilize the structure.
But the preservationists know that just stabilizing the building won't save it. "Mental hospitals across the country are on such a grand scale, we know that only large multipurpose solutions will work: complexes with studio apartments and artists' studios and restaurants and museums," said Janese Horton, who is the chairwoman of a committee to save the building. The group is desperately trying to find a developer who doesn't want to tear it down.
"We just need a little more time to get it together," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many of New York State's abandoned mental hospitals, built in the 19th century, are for sale. Preservationists hope to save the architectural treasures, which include a castlelike structure in Binghamton, above; its chapel, top, and the Hudson River Psychiatric Center, right. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski and Fred R. Conrad for The New York Times)(pg. B1); A wooden wheelchair and other artifacts of the past remain inside the closed Binghamton Psychiatric Center. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B12)
 
Map/Chart: Twelve closed asylums are for sale, and eight more will be sold later:
 
1. J. N. Adam Developmental Center
2. Newark Developmental Center
3. Mohawk Valley Psychiatric Center*
4. St. Lawrence Psychiatric Center
5. Wilton Developmental Center
6. Hudson River Psychiatric Center*
7. Middletown Psychiatric Center
8. Binghamton Psychiatric Center*
9. Bernard Fineson Developmental Center
10. Long Island Developmental Center
11. Central Islip Psychiatric Center
12. Pilgrim Psychiatric Center
 
*National Historic Landmarks (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (70%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ARCHITECTURE; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LAND USE POLICIES VANDALISM (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); HISTORY (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); FLOORING (71%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (70%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



476 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CERIDIAN TO BUY LIFEWORKS, A RIVAL IN EMPLOYEE SERVICES

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
The Ceridian Corporation, a major provider of employee counseling and information services to companies in the United States, is buying Lifeworks, a Boston-based business that was a pioneer in the field. Ceridian's purchase of Lifeworks from Work/Family Directions Inc., also based in Boston, makes it the largest player in the work-family services field. The combined businesses will have $100 million in annual revenues and employ 800 people. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Shares in Ceridian, which is based in Minneapolis, rose $3.50, to $58.875, on the New York Stock Exchange. Work/Family Directions, which is privately held, will shrink after the sale from employing nearly 450 to employing 90 and will narrow its focus to helping companies increase employee commitment and invest in communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (96%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (96%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (96%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LIFEWORKS (CO); CERIDIAN CORP ARBITRON INC (96%); CERIDIAN CORP (96%); DIRECTIONS INC (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIFEWORKS (CO); CERIDIAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (77%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (88%); FAMILY SERVICES (88%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (87%); FAMILY (87%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



477 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
New Jersey Shows Strong Employment

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate last month was 4.5 percent, the State Labor Department reported yesterday, falling below the national average.
The national rate for October was 4.6 percent, unchanged from September, while the state rate fell from a revised 4.7 percent rate in September. 
 The state's Labor Commissioner, Mel Gelade, said the economy was bolstered by more jobs in the service and retail sectors.
"The fact that we're in the same ball park as the national economy is an achievement," Mr. Gelade said. "We seem to be at full employment."
He said the last time New Jersey's rate was below the national average was December 1991. But both the state and the nation were in the grips of a recession then: the New Jersey rate was 7.2 percent, and the national rate was 7.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: STATE LABOR DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LABOR DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1998



478 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Giving

LENGTH: 4546 words

HEADLINE: Days and Nights in Kosovo: Relief Worker's Diary

BYLINE: By Robert Turner

 BODY:
SINCE September, Robert Turner has been coordinating the International Rescue Committee's emergency program to provide assistance to some of the 200,000 to 300,000 ethnic Albanians left homeless in the fighting that has gripped the Kosovo province of Serbia. The International Rescue Committee has been operating there since February 1997 through a community building program financed by the Swiss Government and two Swiss religious donor groups. From the city of Pristina, where he is based, Mr. Turner has been meeting with representatives of the United Nations and other relief agencies, preparing grant proposals and overseeing security for the International Rescue Committee team. He has also waited -- first for grant money that would allow his planning to become reality, then for a resolution of the standoff between the international community and President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, which could have led to bombing and curtailment of relief efforts in the area.
Editors at The Times asked Mr. Turner, a 34-year-old Canadian from Salmon Arm, British Columbia, who has also worked on relief efforts in Burundi, Rwanda and Sierra Leone (and been a forest firefighter in British Columbia), to record his experiences, and feelings, in Kosovo. What follows is the diary he filed. 
 Thursday, Sept. 24, Pristina -- Dad's 57th birthday. I sent an E-mail because, given his work schedule, time zones don't work for a call to British Columbia. Financial and logistics systems here are being beefed up in preparation for the new grants, which we hope will come soon from the United States Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance. We had a shelter coordination meeting today with people from Swiss Disaster Relief, International Management Group, Oxfam, World Vision and Norwegian Church Aid, and started working out a format that all agencies can use to assess damage to houses in a village. Will meet again tomorrow. Lots of military overflights today. Kosovo was the subject of "CNN Insight." There wasn't any.
Friday, Sept. 25, Pristina -- The Serb reaction to NATO's posturing? The largest offensive in months. They returned to shelled villages and torched them. The shelter meeting went well; we came up with standards and will field-test them together next week -- if we're still here. Drew Gilmour, Roy Brennen and I reviewed our security plan and I decided to raise the security level. Roy has been here for seven months working on the community building project. Drew is the other half of the emergency team. Both have a lot of experience. Our new rule is that no one is to travel outside Pristina until further notice. With no real life-saving operation in place, and no radio communication (the Government won't grant us licenses), we can't risk it.
Saturday, Sept. 26, Pristina -- Went to the market to get some things for the house and warmer clothes. I had made the assumption that 42 degrees latitude in September would be warm. It isn't. I haven't done a full winter in Canada in four years, and my blood has gotten pretty thin.
Sunday, Sept. 27, Pristina -- Had a security meeting with other NGO's nongovernmental organizations and the humanitarian liaison of the Kosovo Diplomatic Observer Mission, a group of diplomats that monitors events in Kosovo. There are reports of Albanian medical staff being targeted by police. Beautiful day, so I took a walk. Pristina is a fairly pretty city of about 300,000, the administrative center of Kosovo. It has a university and dozens of cafes catering to their own crowd -- students or workers, Albanians or Serbs. They don't mix much now. Sat in a park at the top of a hill. Very peaceful, except for shelling to the southwest.
Monday, Sept. 28, Pristina -- I'm looking for warehouse space. Would like 600 to 1,200 square feet for storage and to house our logistics operation, but we can't sign a lease until the grants are signed, and who knows when that will be? Julia Taft, from the United States Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration, said we had a six-week window to get assistance to the displaced. That was five weeks ago. Have an idea for setting up emergency schools in areas where schools have been destroyed or where displaced populations have moved and overwhelmed local capacity. I am trying to get someone to donate tents and then will find money for stoves, school supplies, benches, etc. More reports of targeting medical staff members, torture and execution. Mark McGwire hit his 69th and 70th yesterday. Amazing. Haven't been sleeping well.
Tuesday, Sept. 29, Pristina -- Had a visit from a representative of the European Community Humanitarian Office, the main European relief donor. We have to prepare a shelter proposal for them. There was a large military convoy returning to Pristina, which made the Serb population rambunctious. A delegation of International Rescue Committee board members arrived from New York so I had to show them around.
The torture and mutilation of civilians and medical staff members have been confirmed. Numbers unknown. We (and everyone else) have been operating under the assumption that the military campaign would stop in the next few weeks, and that over the winter we would be dealing with a stable population of displaced people. That seems less certain now. More fighting will make things more difficult as the refugees continue their pattern of changing locations quickly when fighting erupts.
Wednesday, Sept. 30, Sedlare Valley -- Went to Sedlare village and the valley above Kisna Reka with the International Rescue Committee delegation. There are 2,000 to 3,000 people from Kisna Reka living under plastic sheeting stretched over tree branches. The sanitation is abysmal, with open defecation and latrines that run directly into living space and the water supply. Most children are without proper footwear. Nighttime temperatures are near freezing and snow is expected soon. These people want to return to their villages, but they keep getting shot at when they go back.
A Red Cross vehicle hit a mine; one person was killed and three injured. Some of our local staff members knew the victim, so the mood was pretty low this afternoon.
I'm amazed by the cohesion and solidarity of the Albanian population. They make a real effort to help one another. We have three proposals out for shelter, water andsanitation and for mobile medical clinics; altogether they are worth about $2.8 million. The shelter and water-sanitation proposals are to assist 10,000 displaced families, about 80,000 people. Large families are common among the rural population of Kosovo. The mobile clinics are to be operated by the Children's Advocacy International, a British NGO under our umbrella.
Roy Brennen and the other expatriate in the community building project, Carey McIntosh, saw a big convoy of police leaving Pristina. Are the Serbs really downsizing, or just rotating?
Thursday, Oct. 1, Pristina -- There was a funeral today for the Red Cross staff member who was killed. Thousands of people came. Two more NGO's showed up, looking to help provide shelter. Every emergency sees an influx of organizations. In Rwanda, there were more than 200 NGO's; Kosovo has gone from about 10 to more than 30 in the last few months.
Friday, Oct. 2, Pristina -- The United States issued a travel warning for Kosovo, which has created some panic, mostly because people have misinterpreted it as an evacuation order. Last weekend, I overreacted by giving too much credence to media reports and raising the security level. Now I'm worried about being too complacent. There has been a tremendous amount of press coverage of the discovery of a massacre of about 35 Albanians in the Drenica Valley. Not to minimize the barbarity of this act, nor the importance of drawing attention to it, but I can't help thinking that there is a lot more coverage if white people are getting killed. This would just be a normal week in Burundi or a dozen other places.
Saturday, Oct. 3, Pristina -- Checked the Web to find out what NATO and the U.N. are doing. It appears that the Russians are not going to allow any kind of U.N.-sanctioned NATO military action against Serbia, and I can't see the United States and Britain acting on their own. There is fighting, but I think the Serbs are making attempts to adhere to the Security Council resolution calling for cutbacks of police and soldiers in Kosovo.
I've been looking through resumes for staff members, just in case some money arrives. The Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance doesn't have any financing, but the Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration does, so they are supposed to be picking up our proposals. They said they will call on Monday with good news.
Sunday, Oct. 4, Pristina -- Spoke with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees security officer today to let him know our evacuation plans. We will wait for the U.N. Secretary General's report to the Security Council and then decide if we need to leave for Skopje. I don't see what positive purpose air strikes alone will serve. The Serbs' integrated air-defense system will probably be destroyed in the first wave, after which the military and police can run amok while the bombs fly. Without an Allied ground force to insure their compliance, the Serbs will be even more recalcitrant, making access for us more difficult. And the Albanian people will be angry at us for abandoning them, which we will have to do when and if the bombing begins. Went home and packed in case we must leave quickly.
Monday, Oct. 5, Pristina -- Two NGO's left today. We will evacuate two of four expats tomorrow. Most field visits have been canceled by all organizations.
Met with all 17 local staff members again to let them know what we are doing. Most of them work on the community building project. The concern is less about air strikes, which we don't think can happen in fewer than three days, than about the deterioration of security for expats. The radical Serb media are trying to paint the humanitarian community as responsible for the current crisis. Most expats live on one hill in Pristina, and it would be very easy to target them. The military base is only about a thousand yards away, and now it's packed with armored equipment. I'm getting a cold.
Tuesday, Oct. 6, Pristina -- A mixed day. The good news was from the United States Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration -- about $2.8 million in grant money has come through. Now it should pick up: procurement, recruitment, systems, new offices and actual operations; in other words, assisting people, the reason we're here. On the bad side, Roy and Carey were evacuated today to reduce our exposure here. Have changed houses to be closer to others and will be restricting movements even within Pristina. Am very concerned about our local staff members. Given the attitude of the Serb officials toward humanitarian agencies, it is entirely possible that they will be targeted, and taking them with us is not an option if we have to leave.
Wednesday, Oct. 7, Pristina -- My cold is worse and there was shooting behind the house, so I didn't get much sleep. It appears that Milosevic has told U.S. American negotiator Richard C. Holbrooke are at odds, so we'll probably be in Skopje by the weekend. If there are air strikes, I don't expect we will return for a few weeks, if ever.
The decision has been made to leave tomorrow. Our staff members will be paid and all remaining supplies, plastic sheeting and public health kits loaded on two trucks for tomorrow's convoy. They will go to the Mother Teresa Society in Vucitrn. Better distributed than looted.
Thursday, Oct. 8, Pristina and Skopje -- We got the trucks off with the convoy. Went to the bank to pick up cash to pay our suppliers. Left at 2:15, and had no problems at checkpoints. One Serb official asked if we were leaving Pristina before it goes boom.
Saturday, Oct. 10, Skopje -- Was supposed to go to a meeting today, but couldn't find the place. Even paid a taxi to escort me, but he couldn't find it either. Got a haircut. I think the only English the barber understood was "short." If it is possible, I now look even more like a Serb policeman. Some local staff members already called me Bobovic.
Sunday, Oct. 11, Skopje and Pristina -- Went to Pristina after conferring with U.N. and other relief officials. Got waved through the checkpoint; must be the haircut. Took some of the local staff members to lunch. They were very happy for the visit, even though it was only for a couple of hours. I hope it helped them feel they haven't been completely abandoned. Our problems pale in comparison with what the locals are facing, even if they aren't displaced: increased police harassment; displaced friends and relatives living with them; constant uncertainty. This is our job, but it's their lives.
Tuesday, Oct. 13, Skopje -- Milosevic agreed to a deal! People with more experience in the region are more skeptical, but I hope it holds. People need to get out of the hills soon or they will start dying in large numbers.
Canadians must pay for visas in Macedonia, so I went to get a multiple-entry visa so I wouldn't have to pay $20 every time I cross the border. I went to three buildings to get the right department. When I got there, the officials had a discussion in Macedonian, after which I was told I must leave by tomorrow. I was confused.
Turns out I did not have my police registration card and therefore was considered illegal. Went back to the hotel, found the card and returned to the office. I was told that I could, in fact, remain in the country for the 90-day period granted by my single-entry visa, but could not have a multiple-entry because that was reserved for people doing business. I said we expected to do a lot of procurement in Macedonia and would need to cross the border frequently.
The final word was that I could not have a multiple-entry business visa because I already had one for Yugoslavia, and you cannot have one for both countries. In West Africa, we called these days WAWA's: West Africa Wins Again.
Thursday, Oct. 15, Pristina -- Opened the office and worked on a strategic plan for transportation. A problem all agencies will face this winter is access to villages that are off tarmac roads. Many of these roads will be impassable to commercial trucks. We have found a source of ex-German military four-wheel drive trucks, which we might be able to purchase and use to carry materials for different agencies. We'll see how far it gets. I am off to Sarajevo for the weekend; will visit our office there to get information on shelter programs.
Friday, Oct. 16, Pristina and Sarajevo -- Drove to Sarajevo. Almost 300 miles of very twisty roads. It was striking how portions of the route were not damaged, but at one point every structure was completely destroyed. Arrived without incident. Visited our office and then went to the Canadian Embassy to have more pages added to my passport. Wandered around the old town with some friends. A very picturesque city, except for the bits that have been blown up and the mined areas.
Saturday, Oct. 17, Sarajevo -- Ran errands and played touch football with people from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and a friend from the United Nations World Food Program. There is an incredible number of expats in Sarajevo; I have heard as many as 20,000. The economy seems very dependent on the humanitarian and military agencies. The brakes on the truck are not working very well, metal on metal. There are no garages open. Found a pub with real draft Guinness!
Sunday, Oct. 18, Sarajevo and Belgrade -- Drove to Belgrade through Tuzla to visit our shelter coordinator there, but couldn't find him. Passed through beautiful territory, nice meadows and rock bluffs. Lots of destruction and mined areas cordoned off with yellow tape. The brakes are so bad I had to drive using the gears and the hand brake. Exciting. Had no problems at the border, didn't even show a passport. Strange. Had a great dinner at a floating restaurant on the Danube. I'm sore from the football.
Monday, Oct. 19, Belgrade and Pristina -- Went into the Belgrade office and met with Allen Jelich, the International Rescue Committee country director, and Marcel Grogan, the new deputy. Dropped off the truck to have the brakes fixed. Went to the Macedonian Embassy and got a multiple-entry visa. Left the truck at the shop and borrowed a Belgrade car to return to Pristina. Not far from Belgrade, it overheated so I waited at a roadside cafe for a driver to bring another car. It has now been two weeks since we received verbal approval of our winterizing and water-sanitation proposal, but nothing signed to date. International Rescue Committee New York has advanced us $100,000 against the grant to get started. Never seen so many police in Pristina as tonight.
Tuesday, Oct. 20, Pristina -- Finally signed a lease on a warehouse. It is close to town, has offices in which we can house the logistics team, 1,200 square feet of warehouse space and a fenced compound to park vehicles. Did more interviews. It is amazing how good the candidates are. Tried to see a film called "Lulu on the Bridge," There are two screens at the theater, and both features started at 9. About 10 minutes into a film that I think was in Russian, I turned to my friend and asked her if they normally showed a short before the feature. They didn't. She assumed this was the film I had wanted to see. Perhaps another night.
Wednesday, Oct. 21, Pristina -- The transportation idea is taking off. Met with people from the Office of Food and Disaster Assistance this morning to discuss the concept, then met with representatives of several other NGO's, who are all supportive. Also found a large, unfinished workshop we could use to house a transport unit.
Thursday, Oct. 22, Pristina -- Had a look at the workshop. It will take some effort to make it operational, but it is the best facility available. Allen has finished a large $2 million medical proposal to provide assistance to urban medical facilities that have been overwhelmed by the conflict. The United States Government has promised in-kind contributions of reinforced plastic sheeting and 100 tents for emergency schools. I need to find a donor for the supplies.
Friday, Oct. 23, Pristina -- The owners of the workshop say we can use it if we finish it. I'm looking for a new apartment for myself. Found one I like, but they are asking too much. Everyone is getting panicky over residences and offices, since the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe is already here nosing around. They visited one of our apartments yesterday and told the landlord they wanted it. He said it was already rented, but they wouldn't leave him alone. Two-thousand more expats coming into Kosovo is going to completely skew the housing market and local salary structure.
Monday, Oct. 26, Sedlare Valley -- We had received a $4,000 donation from the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and staff from the International Rescue Committee in New York and Belgrade to buy long underwear for children. It doesn't sound that important, but for children living under plastic sheeting and without proper clothing, it means a great deal. Children and the elderly are always the first to suffer in an emergency. They just don't have the same strength as young adults, and in some circumstances, do not receive the food and other care they need. For that relatively small amount, we procured 1,400 pairs of tops and bottoms for children under 7. We came to the Sedlare Valley, southwest of Pristina, to distribute them.
It rained all day. We visited Kisna Reka, where the vast majority of the displaced are children, as is usually the case. We gave 500 pairs of underwear to the local representatives of the Mother Teresa Society, a local Albanian organization that has been handling most of the distributions. It has done a tremendous job, with almost entirely volunteer labor. Its people immediately began the distribution, registering the children as the underwear was given out to insure that no one was getting too much.
Tuesday, Oct. 27, Pristina -- Two of our expats received visas today. I hope this is the beginning of a softening by the Yugoslav authorities. There has been a lot of pressure on them to do this -- it is a compliance issue for the guarantee of freedom for humanitarian assistance. I got the apartment I wanted. Looked at another new house, which we will need if the medical and transportation proposals are financed.
Wednesday, Oct. 28, Pristina -- Stayed at home in the morning and finished a draft of the transportation proposal. Talked to our engineer to get better numbers on rehabilitation costs for the workshop. Heard back about the truck costs for the budget. Talked to World Food Program again about operating costs for the trucks. The total for this proposal is about $1.2 million to set up the workshop and operate it for a year with a fleet of 20 trucks for the winter months. New York will front us more money on the shelter grant so we can get started. And more good news: the Young Green Foundation, a private United States donor, has given us $65,000 to be used for children's clothing. With that, we should be able to put together a package of boots, long underwear and a raincoat for about 10,000 children.
People are beginning to return to their homes. Some of them have been forced out by host families who were afraid that they would have to house the displaced for the winter. I guess the solidarity only goes so far.
Thursday, Oct. 29, Pristina -- Met with the owners of the workshop; it looks as if we can agree on repairs and rehabilitation as in-kind rent. It is a quasi-state company that has no cash and really wants the workshop finished. Word from New York is that the United States Bureau for Population, Refugees and Migration is sending the grants tomorrow to be signed, which means we might have a grant code by Monday and can really start working. That would be nice, but I'm too tired of this to get excited. We ordered nine new four-wheel drives.
Monday, Nov. 2, Pristina -- Met with the High Commissioner for Refugees about the database project I want to carry out. We developed a shelter database and want to expand it to include data from other sectors, then link it to a geographic information system to create maps. Two expats arrived today, John Rickard to set up our logistics system, and Dr. Lynne Jones of Children's Advocacy International, to run the mobile clinics program. Still no confirmation of the grants being signed.
Tuesday, Nov. 3, Pristina -- The transportation proposal is now up to $1.6 million with a provision for 40 trucks. We have to make sure that any trucks we bring in are used only for areas that are inaccessible to commercial, two-wheel drive trucks because we don't want to take business from local truckers. Completely forgot about two interviews I was supposed to do. Damn. Roy submitted the water-sanitation proposal to the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance: $650,000 for water treatment, mostly well disinfection, and for displaced families returning to homes with damaged water systems.
Wednesday, Nov. 4, Pristina -- Got word from the European Community Humanitarian Organization that the emergency school- supplies proposal does not fall within the guidelines for microprojects. I will present it to the High Commissioner for Refugees and UNICEF. It is only about $65,000, which would outfit 100 classrooms.
Thursday, Nov. 5, Pristina -- We got grant codes! That means the contracts have reached New York, and we can make charges against accounts. I can't believe they have actually come. Allen Jelich came down from Belgrade with Buck Northrup, our regional director from New York, and we met again with the High Commissioner for Refugees to discuss the general situation and some proposal issues.
There has been a debate about the number of displaced and how many are living in the open. The range is from a Government figure of 3,000 to more than 500,000, according to the Mother Teresa Society. The truth is very likely closer to the society's number. Of that figure, there might have once been 40,000 to 50,000 living under plastic supplied by relief agencies.
In the last week, almost all the displaced who have been living in the open have returned to their compounds, though many are still under plastic because their homes are damaged or are destroyed.
Friday, Nov. 6, Pristina -- Received word that the 100 tents and 290 rolls of reinforced plastic sheeting donated by the United States Government have arrived in Belgrade. Was visiting a friend tonight and could hear an argument in the parking lot below. Someone started shooting, and one bullet hit the outside wall of the apartment just below the window. Lots of Serb civilians have been armed by the police.
Saturday, Nov. 7, Pristina -- Allen and I figure that if all our grant proposals come through, we will have a base of around $7 million and will have to expand the staff to about 30 expatriates and 120 to 150 locals. We will have 6 offices, about 10 residences, 20 passenger cars plus a truck fleet. We will need driver-translators, office people, water and sanitation specialists, public-health experts, civil engineers and medical staff.
Roy, Lynne, Buck and John went into the field. The valley above Kisna Reka is now empty; the displaced have all gone home, though for most that isn't much of an improvement in their living conditions.
Monday, Nov. 9, Pristina -- The bodies of two policemen were found today in Malisevo, 20 miles west of here. They were probably killed in retaliation for the killing of five Kosovo Liberation Army members Friday. More worrisome is the increase in reported mines and booby traps. The newspapers are reporting that six people were killed Friday in the shooting outside my friend's apartment.
Thursday, Nov. 12, Pristina -- Closing date for receipt of C.V.'s of national staff. We have a pile about two feet high. Drew is moving the shelter program into the new office today, as there won't be room in this office for everyone.
Friday, Nov. 13, Pristina -- Looks like we will get the supplies for the schools from the High Commissioner's office, which has also agreed to import the trucks for our transport unit. The new water-sanitation proposal has been approved, too. Two more expats got visas, so the team will start to come together -- though I shouldn't get too excited until I see the grant codes.
There has been an increase in fighting between the K.L.A. and the police. Dropped off two friends after dinner tonight and two of the tires on their Land Cruiser had been slashed. And so it goes.
 
How to Help
Here are some of the relief agencies operating in Kosovo:
Catholic Relief Services 209 West Fayette St., Baltimore, Md. 21201-3343; (410) 625-2220.
Doctors Without Borders 6 E. 39th St., N.Y., N.Y. 10016; (888) 392-0392.
International Rescue Committee 122 E. 42d St., N.Y., N.Y. 10168-1289; (212) 551-3000.
Mercy Corps International, 3030 S.W. First Ave., Portland, Ore. 97201; (800) 292-3355.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON A RAINY day in Kosovo, International Rescue Committee workers give long underwear, bought with a $4,000 grant, to ethnic Albanian refugees in the village of Kisna Reka. "It doesn't sound that important," wrote Robert Turner, left, the coordinator, but "children and the elderly are always the first to suffer in an emergency." (Photographs by WADE GODDARD/Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ethnic Albanian refugees, top, in their makeshift shelter in woods above Kisna Reka in Kosovo. Above, Robert Turner (far left) and other International Rescue Committee workers distribute underclothes to the village. Mr. Turner, above right, in a warehouse in Pristina, Kosovo's capital, being turned into a workshop for housing trucks used by the relief effort. (Photographs by Wade Goddard/Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Map of Kosovo. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (99%); SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (94%); CANADA (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BURUNDI (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP (53%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (99%); SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (94%); CANADA (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BURUNDI (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); RELIGION (71%); BOMBINGS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



479 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Rancorous Asia Pacific Talks End With a Pledge and a Sigh

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 18

 BODY:
With an almost palpable sigh of relief, the leaders of Malaysia and 20 other Pacific Rim countries wrapped up a contentious summit meeting here today by pledging to revive a region they said had been set back decades by the Asian economic crisis.
In a communique short on concrete proposals, the leaders agreed to pursue a "cooperative growth strategy" that would draw on billions of dollars in fresh financing from the United States, Japan, and agencies including the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. 
 But cooperation was notably absent from this year's Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, as the United States and Malaysia engaged in a war of words over a speech by Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Gore accused the host country of suppressing freedom and threw his support behind protesters who are demanding the ouster of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
Dr. Mahathir had the last word at a news conference late today, but he steadfastly refused to criticize the Vice President.
"Whatever comments needed to be made about that speech have already been made," Dr. Mahathir said, in a subdued appearance. "I don't see any need to comment further."
On Tuesday, Malaysia's Foreign Minister, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, condemned the United States for an "abhorrent" attempt to incite the overthrow of Malaysia's constitutionally elected Government.
Today, though, there were efforts on both sides to heal the rift. Dr. Mahathir said Mr. Gore's speech would not affect relations between Malaysia and the United States, and the White House made no further mention of Anwar Ibrahim, the former Deputy Prime Minister, whose ouster and arrest ignited the protest movement against Dr. Mahathir.
Instead, a senior Clinton Administration official said Malaysia had displayed "vision" in setting the agenda for the meeting and praised Malaysian officials for being "willing to listen to the ideas of others."
Even before Mr. Gore criticized its human-rights record, Malaysia had been a contentious site for the meeting. In September, Dr. Mahathir imposed sweeping controls on Malaysia's currency and stock markets -- effectively digging a moat around this country of 20 million people.
Malaysia did not win an endorsement of capital controls in today's communique, and other Asian leaders said they would not impose controls on their markets. But the countries called for changes in the international financial markets to avoid "destructive disruptions" in the ebb and flow of global capital.
And Dr. Mahathir did manage to insert a passage calling for a review of one of his pet peeves: agencies like Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investor Services, which rate the creditworthiness of corporate and government debt. He has criticized them for what he asserts are sloppy judgments that drive up a country's cost of borrowing.
In perhaps another victory for Dr. Mahathir, none of the demonstrations against his Government this week erupted into violence, as some political analysts here predicted. With only scattered protests that petered out quickly, Kuala Lumpur hardly seemed a city on the edge of anarchy. As he has before, Dr. Mahathir blamed the foreign news media for exaggerating the extent of civil unrest.
The Government discouraged would-be protesters by mobilizing hundreds of riot police officers and parking water-cannon trucks behind trees at the hotels where the leaders stayed. And with Mr. Gore and other leaders now gone, some people here fear that Dr. Mahathir will crack down on the dissidents.
At his news conference, though, the Prime Minister seemed almost mellow. He acknowledged, for example, that Asian countries deserved some responsibility for the crisis -- a striking departure for someone who has vilified foreign currency traders for causing the meltdown.
"Most of the Asian governments are now aware of their own weaknesses, and have undertaken to correct those weaknesses," he said. "So because of that, I think investors will feel much more confident to come into the region."
If there were any concrete steps at this summit meeting, they were in the area of reviving Asia's financially moribund corporate sector. On Monday, the United States and Japan announced that they would join in a plan to contribute $10 billion in trade financing to help countries recapitalize debt-swamped companies.
"Obviously, it's nothing concrete, but nonetheless it is important because the U.S. and Japan are the linchpins in the region," said Razak Baginda, executive director of the Malaysian Strategic Research Center, a research organization here.
The countries also committed to create stronger social safety nets. That issue seemed especially urgent this week after recent violence and looting in Indonesia set off by its economic crisis.
American officials noted that the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank would multiply their aid for social programs in the region. The total by both agencies will be $6 billion from 1997 to 1999.
Unquestionably, the big disappointment of the meeting was in trade negotiations. Japan balked at a sweeping deal to lower trade tariffs in Asia, forcing the countries to defer the package to the World Trade Organization. There is no guarantee that Japan will not resist the tariff cuts there, too.
Although officials from the United States labored to portray this compromise in a positive light, Dr. Mahathir felt no need to gild the lily.
"Being urgent is one thing, getting things done in the international community is another thing," he said in the tone of a man happy to have his week in the spotlight behind him.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (71%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (71%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; PACIFIC RIM; KUALA LUMPUR (MALAYSIA); MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN) AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



480 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC EYE;
Wheels for Sipowicz?

BYLINE: By Philip Nobel 

 BODY:
FOR all of their diversity, the streetscapes of New York City can be boiled down to a few representative elements: a yellow cab, a hot dog stand and a steaming manhole cover. Throw in a light-blue and white police car, and the location is fixed beyond all doubt. Only in New York, kids, only in New York.
Unfortunately, that last component of the city's visual signature will soon go the way of all things. One by one, the N.Y.P.D.'s familiar patrol cars, Chevrolet Caprices painted white and a custom shade that the department calls "grabber blue," are being replaced by lily-white Ford Crown Victorias. By 2000, when the transition is complete, New York will be a bit more like everywhere else. 
 The new cars fall in line with a standard used throughout the country: factory-painted white cars decorated with reflective decals, in this case two dark blue racing stripes, the department shield and a bold "N.Y.P.D." The new car is an unlikely award winner. In the 1997 Police Vehicle Design Contest, sponsored by Law and Order magazine, the N.Y.P.D. won second prize, beating a white car with blue stripes from Little Rock, Ark., but losing to a white car with blue stripes from Lynnwood, Wash.
William Flynn, executive director of support services for the Police Department, said that the new color scheme was "primarily an economic move." Each white car is about $800 cheaper to produce than the blue and white car it replaces, he says. But despite total savings in the millions of dollars -- the patrol cars' street life is only three years -- the introduction of the new design has been something of a stealth campaign. Police Commissioner Howard Safir approved the new cars in June 1996, and the first 200 or so rolled on to the streets with little fanfare in the spring of 1997.
Half of the city's 1,700 patrol cars have now been replaced, but the new cars are still well below the radar of most New Yorkers. Allen Adamson, the managing director of the New York office of Landor Associates, a large graphic design firm responsible for the corporate identities of Federal Express, Xerox and Delta Air Lines, suggested that New Yorkers have been slow to notice the change because the cars were sending the wrong message.
"From a branding point of view, I think they made a mistake," he said. "You want an image of toughness, but the new image is more suburban, more Mayberry. When I call the police in New York, I want Detective Sipowicz, not Andy Griffith."
Curiously, the fearsome blue cars were originally part of a program to make the police more user-friendly. Benjamin Ward, Police Commissioner from 1984 to 1989, was serving as Deputy Commissioner for Human Relations when the color was adopted in 1973. "Probably because the department had been Irish for so long, we all thought that green would be everybody's favorite color," he said. "But research showed that baby blue was the most popular color in America."
No formal studies were conducted to test public reaction to the all-white cars, but Hank Seiden, founder of the Seiden Group, a Manhattan-based marketing and advertising firm, worked with the department to develop the new look. Mr. Seiden also oversaw a more modest redesign of the patrol car graphics in the early 1990's, when the police introduced the bubble-headed Caprice but retained the distinctive grabber blue.
Now, he is sorry to see them go. "I designed those cars and I loved them," he said. "The white car starts to look like thousands of other police forces. But I'm happy with the way they came out. It's a friendly car. It's like a guy on a white horse with a white hat."
But the new cars may be too friendly, and too indistinct. Mark Lerner, the president of Epic Security, one of the city's largest private guard services, is concerned that people will mistake his white, blue-striped fleet for the new white, blue-striped police cars.
"I hope it's not going to be an issue of contention," he said. "I've had this look for 20 years and I like it."
Speaking in his academic capacity -- Mr. Lerner has a Ph.D. in criminology and has taught at John Jay College in Manhattan -- he said that the new cars would probably not make a difference in the way the police were perceived. But he worried that the department's distinctive edge had been lost. "I think the old black, white and green cars from the 1960's had the most effective look. New York City should look different than other places."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BEFORE ANDAFTER -- The N.Y.P.D. goes suburban with lily-white Fords and reflective decals. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times; Frances Roberts for The New York Times (top))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; CHEVROLET DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP LANDOR ASSOCIATES (52%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); NEW YORK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; CHEVROLET DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP NEW YORK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; POLICE MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, PHILIP ALLEN ADAMSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



481 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Younger Workers in Russia Found More Likely to Be Poor

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Russians younger than 64 are more likely to be poor than older Russians, the United States Census Bureau reported today.
An analysis of data collected by a Russian statistical agency and analyzed here also found that poverty is more likely to affect women and those who failed to finish high school. 
 A major factor in Russian poverty is the availability of income supplements like disability allowances, pensions, private gifts and other allowances, the Census Bureau said.
Pensions, disability benefits and other such stipends are generally not available to younger workers, resulting in greater poverty among the young than among older people. In fact, 60 percent of poor households with members between the ages of 18 and 54 had no such supplemental income.
Unemployment benefits are often "quite meager," the report said.
Education also played a significant role, with people who had the equivalent of a high school education or less found twice as likely to be poor as someone with more education. And poverty was higher for women than men.
The analysis was based on data collected by the Russian State Statistical Bureau, Goskomstat. That survey was done with financing from the United States Agency for International Development, the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation and the University of North Carolina.
In its own report, released last month, Goskomstat said that living standards in Russia were falling even more rapidly than previously believed, with almost one in three people now living in poverty.
More than 44 million of Russia's 148 million people live below the poverty level, defined as less than $32 a month, and 8.4 million are without jobs, the agency said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
2 Million Orphans
 MOSCOW, Nov. 18 (Agence France-Presse) -- Two million Russian children lack families, and almost two-thirds of those live in the street, a press report said here today.
A study by the Association of Child Psychologists and Psychiatrists, a nongovernmental organization, said the number surpasses the period following World War II, the weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta reported.
Only about 650,000 of these children without families live in orphanages. The rest survive in cellars, attics, abandoned houses, and in larger cities by seeking shelter from cold in sewer systems.
After leaving orphanages, one in three become alcoholic and one in 10 commit suicide after a year on their own, the Labor ministry said. The suicide rate among children has doubled in 10 years, said the ministry.
It said about 10 million Russian school-age children never attend school.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU (US) AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU (US) US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WOMEN; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CENSUS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TEEN SUICIDE (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); WOMEN (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SUICIDE (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



482 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Demand Is Heavy for Offering by Argentina

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Argentina raised $1 billion in seven-year debt yesterday, extending a bond-sale binge as interest rates fall and concerns ease over a financial calamity in neighboring Brazil.
The Government increased the offer to $1.3 billion from $750 million on strong demand. The bonds were priced to yield 11 percent, or 622 basis points more than the yield on comparable United States Treasuries. 
 J. P. Morgan & Company, which managed the sale with Deutsche Bank A.G., said it was the biggest Latin bond sale since last May.
"This is a huge deal," said Carlos Gadala, who manages $1 billion of emerging-market debt for Americas Trust Bank in Miami, which bought some of the bonds. "It shows there's still emerging-market money out there and borrowers won't have to pay exorbitant sums to get it."
Argentina has proved it can still tap international markets just three months after Russia's debt default caused emerging markets around the world to crash. In the last month, the country has sold $1.9 billion in five separate sales, underlining investor confidence in its finances.
In the United States, bonds rallied, outpacing shorter-term Treasuries, on expectations that inflation will remain subdued and that the Federal Reserve's interest-rate cut on Tuesday will be the last this year.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 18/32 , to 9928/32 . The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.26 percent, from 5.30 percent on Tuesday. Yields on two-year notes, among the most actively traded Treasuries, rose 4 basis points, or hundredths of a percent, to 4.61 percent.
An absence of inflation, and little concern that it will reappear, makes bond yields of 5.26 percent attractive on an inflation-adjusted basis, traders said. Inflation eats away at the value of bonds' fixed payments.
Real yields, or yields minus inflation, show how much of a premium investors demand to guard against rising inflation. They are calculated by subtracting the inflation rate, now 1.5 percent annually, from a bond's yield.
The last time inflation was at 2 percent or lower for any extended length of time -- from 1951 to 1966 -- real yields on a basket of Treasuries due in more than one year averaged 3.32 percent, according to data from Ryan Labs Inc. in New York. That is about 31 basis points lower than where they are now.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); RYAN LABS INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



483 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Hitachi Data to Cut Staff

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 18

 BODY:
Hitachi Data Systems, owned by the Electronic Data Systems Corporation and Hitachi Ltd. of Japan, said today that it planned to cut its work force by 400 employees. Hitachi Data said the cuts were likely to affect all areas of the company. It attributed the reductions to changes in business conditions and global markets. Hitachi Data, based here, sells high-performance enterprise servers, storage systems and professional services. It employs about 2,750 workers worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HITACHI DATA SYSTEMS; ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; HITACHI LTD HITACHI LTD (92%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (92%); HITACHI DATA SYSTEMS CORP (91%); HITACHI DATA SYSTEMS AS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HITACHI DATA SYSTEMS; ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS CORP; HITACHI LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



484 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Big shareholders sold off Coca-Cola Enterprises stock, just as the company was buying it.

BYLINE: By Constance L. Hays 

 BODY:
WHILE much of America spent its summer vacation lying on the beach or relaxing on a mountaintop, some key shareholders of Coca-Cola Enterprises spent theirs in a flurry of trading on the stock exchange.
Early filings for the third quarter show that at least one big mutual fund company, a money manager and a trust company with significant positions in Coca-Cola Enterprises sold nearly all their shares during that period. Another mutual fund is said to have sold 10 million shares, possibly in a private deal. And the buyer of at least 14 million of the shares on the block was the company itself. 
 Two factors helped prompt the selling. In late July, Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is the Coca-Cola Company's main bottler in the United States and parts of Europe, announced a $5 billion capital spending plan that alarmed some investors, particularly when the company said it would not start showing increased positive cash flow until next year.
"A lot of investors just didn't want to wait," said Jennifer Solomon, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney.
Then the stock market, rattled by global economic crises in Russia and other regions, fell into an August swoon that carried the stock price of Coca-Cola Enterprises south along with those of many other companies.
The biggest sellers included Prudential Mutual Fund Investment Management, which sold slightly more than 6.2 million shares, worth $158.9 million, at the end of August. The company had held those shares since June, said Tim Biggs, a spokesman for Prudential, but declined to say why Prudential had decided to sell. Prudential still has about 242,000 Coca-Cola Enterprises shares in its portfolio.
Another big seller was the Bessemer Trust Company, which sold 2.9 million shares, worth $73.3 million, according to its most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company, which has been a long-term shareholder, still has about 46,000 shares.
And the word on Wall Street is that Putnam Investment Management, the second-biggest shareholder in Coca-Cola Enterprises, quietly sold about 10 million of its 15.8 million shares during the third quarter as well, possibly in a private deal. A spokesman for Putnam, part of Marsh & McLennan, refused to comment. Meanwhile, filings show that Warburg Pincus Asset Management sold 901,167 shares during the quarter for $22.7 million; the firm kept 9,600 shares.
Where did all those shares go? As it turns out, 14 million were bought by the company itself, for $404 million -- issuing more debt to pay for them at a time when it is already heavy with debt from acquisitions of smaller bottlers. The company frequently uses its own stock in acquisitions, which can mean tax-free deals for the owners of companies it takes over.
Interestingly, Coca-Cola Enterprises went on its shopping spree without fanfare, though companies often publicize buybacks, since the purchases can give the stock a lift. The first mention came in late October, at the end of its third-quarter earnings release.
The company's most recent buyback plan, aimed at reclaiming 30 million shares altogether, was authorized in April 1996, a company spokeswoman said. But until Jan. 1 of this year, no shares had been repurchased, because the company was reluctant to take on more debt.
While one million shares were bought in the first quarter -- and preceded by a detailed news release -- that move was dwarfed by the activity in the third quarter.
"To me, that's not the way to use shareholder capital," said Albert L. Meyer, an accountant and consultant in Indianapolis who has previously criticized the company. "And it's capital they don't have, because they had to borrow to do it."
Like merger activity, corporate share repurchases are at an all-time high. Last year, companies spent $182 billion buying back their own stock, said Laurie Hodrick, a professor of economics and finance at the Columbia University business school. They did so to invest in the stock when it appears to be undervalued, or for tax advantages, or as a deterrent to possible takeovers, she added.
"If you're repurchasing to communicate confidence, you'd want to announce it," she said. "But if the purchasing is done on the open market, firms need not disclose it and whether they do so or not depends on the purpose of the activity."
Margaret Carton, vice president for investor relations and planning at Coca-Cola Enterprises, says that share repurchases have long been part of the company's strategy, and the third quarter was merely an example of that strategy in action.
"We took advantage of the soft share price and bought a lot of shares," she said, adding that the purchases took place in August and September, at prices "from the mid-30's to low 30's all the way down to the mid-20's." Some shares purchased were part of a 17.7 million block that had been issued in the spring as a means of financing the company's takeover of a large Texan bottler, Coke Southwest.
Some purchases were made on the open market, and others were "privately negotiated transactions that we're not able to disclose," she said, adding that "short-term paper" was used to finance the deals.
"If somebody calls us and says we'd like to do this privately, we're interested," she said, calling a private sale "a more direct transaction" that permits the company to negotiate the price.
The company's decision to take on more debt to do that, though, may not sit well with every investor. "If interest rates were to spike, I think C.C.E. would be in serious trouble, just to make their interest payments," Mr. Meyer said.
In addition, at least one analyst is worried that price-cutting in the next few months may further erode earnings. "I didn't sense that this significantly improving pricing environment is around the corner," said Caroline Levy, an analyst with Schroder & Company, who removed the stock from her recommended list yesterday.
Still, Coca-Cola Enterprises' share price has bounced back. Working in the company's favor was its inclusion in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index on Oct. 7. That alone pushed up the stock somewhat, since index funds had to add its shares to their holdings. And, as the market in general has returned to early-summer levels, the company's share price has risen as well. Coca-Cola Enterprises stock closed at $38.0625 a share yesterday, off 93.75 cents.
Finally, even during the third quarter, there was at least one new big buyer: Merrill Lynch Asset Management, which bought 2.9 million shares for $73.5 million. Morgan Stanley Asset Management added 2.8 million shares to its holdings during the quarter as well.
The quarter's single heaviest session of trading came July 22, the day Coca-Cola Enterprises released its second-quarter earnings and described the details of the capital-spending plan. Trading volume, typically less than one million shares daily, soared to 7,996,100 shares; the price dropped from $38.4375 to $35.3125.
"Many people who invested in the company have become concerned about the divergence between E.B.I.T.D.A. and earnings," said Marc Cohen, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, referring to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. "While E.B.I.T.D.A. is growing, the big financial commitments they are making to expand the business are causing real earnings measures, and most importantly, free cash flow, to weaken."
Some think that as time goes on the stock repurchasing may prove a wise move. "It's a fabulous use of funds as long as there's money to borrow," said Emanuel Goldman, an analyst for Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CCE (PAR) (90%); CCE (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (70%); MMC (NYSE) (52%); MHM (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (51%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (90%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (90%); COCA-COLA CO (70%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); BESSEMER TRUST CO NA (53%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (52%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



485 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Armstrong World Set to Lay Off 750

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: LANCASTER, Pa., Nov. 18

 BODY:
The floor covering giant Armstrong World Industries said today that it was laying off 7 percent of its 10,400 workers and taking a $78 million charge in the fourth quarter of 1998.
The layoffs, representing about 750 salaried and hourly workers, are expected to occur within the next 12 months, the company said. 
 About $29 million will be allotted for severance payments, the company said. The remainder of the charge reflects $40 million for enhanced retirement benefits and $9 million of expected losses for the disposal of certain machinery and equipment.
The company said the changes were the result of several initiatives taken to improve the company's costs in major product lines, lower overall break-even operating levels and better ways of developing and quickly marketing new products.
The news of the layoffs was released after the close of the market today in which shares of Armstrong were down 37.5 cents, to $65.125.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AWI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (92%); SEVERANCE PAY (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



486 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
There are wise and less wise ways to control cheap imports.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
ASIAN, Latin American and Russian imports are pouring into the United States, trapping the Administration in an embarrassing trade hypocrisy.
Last week, President Clinton promised to stop the "flooding of our markets" with low-priced steel and other imports that he said threatened American workers. This week, he sent Vice President Al Gore to Malaysia to preach open borders to a gathering of Asian-Pacific countries, many of which are clawing their way out of recession. 
 Apparently it is acceptable for Russia and other countries to export their way to recovery as long as those exports do not land here. Mr. Clinton is right to seek protection from a deluge of temporarily cheap steel imports. But there are good and bad ways to go about this task. So far the Administration has not chosen the best course of action..
American steel manufacturers have accused Japan, Russia and Brazil of "dumping" steel in the United States, or selling it for less than it costs them to make it at home. But anti-dumping rules too often amount to protectionism, shutting out legitimate exports and provoking trading partners to retaliate. The better course would be for the Administration to exploit a different provision of international trade rules, known as the safeguard clause, which permits countries to impose quotas or tariffs in order to block a sudden rush of cheap imports. That would give the United States a principled and constructive way to insulate workers from the temporary ravages of trade.
The steel industry's complaints center on imports of hot-rolled steel, which account for more than half of all steel products. These imports are soaring in part because Japanese and Brazilian mills are selling steel to the United States because buyers are evaporating in neighboring countries mired in recession. Russian steel is flooding America in part because the ruble has collapsed, cutting the dollar price of Russian goods. The price of steel in the United States has fallen by up to a third, and imports have risen about 80 percent since last year. Layoffs have already started.
The steel industry's answer is to accuse Japan, Russia and Brazil, which account for all of the explosive rise this year, of dumping. The one-third price drop "is out of bounds," said Keith Busse, president of of Steel Dynamics Inc. of Indiana, one of the 12 companies that brought the dumping charges. "Right is right and wrong is wrong," he said, and "import prices are crazy and will take out not just inefficient producers."
But to many economists, invoking international anti-dumping rules lies somewhere between a joke and protectionist fraud. The Commerce Department, which determines whether dumping has occurred, not only gets to decide what another country's costs are but also gets to tack on a nifty profit. In the case of Russia, the Commerce Department can determine that its markets are too primitive to yield reliable cost estimates and substitute figures based on higher production costs in, say, Turkey. The process is designed to help the domestic industry win.
An independent agency then decides whether the dumped imports have caused the aggrieved industry "material harm," a low threshold. If the steel industry gets its way, the United States will then impose prohibitive tariffs.
Americans' overuse of dumping charges is now taking a large toll. The rest of the world is catching on to the charade. The dumper now often claims to be the dumpee -- last year the United States was a defendant in about as many cases as it was the plaintiff.
Start from first principles. Low-cost imports are a gift to American consumers if they can be expected to last. If foreigners want to give us $2 worth of steel for $1 year in and year out, the country would be foolish to turn down the largess. But if the something-for-nothing is only temporary -- as is almost certain in the current case -- then the gift can turn sour. The temporary influx would trifle with the livelihoods of ordinary steelworkers, throwing them out of work one year only to lure them back in another.
That is why international trade rules include a safeguard clause. It allows nations to impose quotas or tariffs in an effort to hold off a sudden rush of cheap imports. But the safeguard clause is better tailored than anti-dumping rules to prevent abuse. The safeguard clause can only be invoked temporarily and must be phased out. An independent agency must determine that imports impose "serious harm" to the domestic industry rather than merely "material harm" under the anti-dumping rules. And if countermeasures are left in place for an extended period, then the United States, in the steel case, would be required to compensate Russia, Japan and Brazil.
That is the right principle. Americans protect their steelworkers from needless ravage but do so in a way that minimizes harm to suffering workers in Russia and Brazil.
The Administration is right to pursue relief for the domestic steel industry. But how it pursues that relief also matters. If the domestic industry successfully exploits anti-dumping rules in this case, the semiconductor, apparel and scores of other industries will follow suit. Then watch retaliatory measures take hold by America's trading partners around the globe.
The steel mills that brought dumping charges cannot be blamed for resorting to a legal device stacked in their favor. But Congress and the President are obligated to take a wider view. Under the law, each can initiate use of the safeguard clause on behalf of steelmakers. There is, despite the continuing dumping case, still time.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: STLD (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (62%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STEEL DYNAMICS INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); LAYOFFS (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M BILL CLINTON (88%); KEITH BUSSE (58%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



487 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Tiffany Names President to Succeed Chief

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Tiffany & Company, the second-largest United States jewelry retailer, said yesterday that its president and chief operating officer, Michael Kowalski, would succeed William Chaney as chief executive on Jan. 31.
Mr. Chaney, 66, will continue as chairman. He was chief executive for 15 years. Mr. Kowalski, 46, will retain the title of president. He has worked at the New York-based Tiffany for more than 20 years in finance, merchandising, marketing, operations and sales. 
 On Monday, Tiffany said its third-quarter earnings rose 5.7 percent even though a falling stock market and concerns about the economy led to a 7 percent decline in sales at its New York flagship store. United States sales picked up in October and November, the company said.
Tiffany operates 130 stores worldwide, including 34 in the United States It is the No. 2 United States jewelry retailer based on revenue, behind the Zale Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (95%); ZLC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (95%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (95%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO TIFFANY & CO (95%); ZALE CORP (84%); NEW YORK (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIFFANY & CO NEW YORK (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); JEWELRY STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); 

PERSON: KOWALSKI, MICHAEL J; CHANEY, WILLIAM MICHAEL J KOWALSKI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



488 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Delta Sets 2% Raise For Workers in U.S.

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines Inc., the No. 3 carrier in the United States, said today that it would give its 50,000 American employees a 2 percent raise, part of an effort to appease pilots who made pay concessions in a 1994 cost-cutting plan.
The 2 percent raise comes as Delta also shifts money out of a profit-sharing plan and adds it to employees' base salaries. The two actions mean paychecks will rise by an average of 8 percent effective Jan. 1, said Katie Moussouri, a Delta spokeswoman. 
 The airline's 9,000 pilots must approve the pay increase because they are covered by a labor contract. The pilots agreed to a 2 percent pay cut during a 1994 cost-cutting campaign and were scheduled to receive it back in May 2000. Pilots are to vote on the plan on Dec. 9.
"I would assume they'd approve it," said Karen McGuffey, a union spokeswoman. "They were due to get it back anyway."
The pilots have been clamoring for Delta, based in Atlanta, to increase their pay as the company's profit increases. The company has also spurned their efforts to win a voting seat on its board.
Delta's net income for the quarter that ended on Sept. 30 rose 29 percent, to $327 million, or $4.16 a diluted share, from $254 million, or $3.26 a share, in the quarter a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PILOTS; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



489 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: World Briefs

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: WARNING ON DEBT PAYMENTS -- With a mission of the International Monetary Fund in Moscow for talks on loans, Deputy Prime Minister Yuri D. Maslyukov warned that inflation would soar out of control unless the Government reached agreements with its creditors to reschedule some of the $17 billion in foreign debt payments due next year. The chairman of the Finance Committee in Parliament, Aleksandr Zhukov, said that Russia could not meet the repayments. (AP, Agence France-Presse) 

RUSSIA: SHAM MISSILES ON PARADE -- Many of the huge missiles displayed in Red Square parades in the Soviet era were only dummies, but they scared the West into an expensive response, a weekly reported. One such fake, shown a May 9, 1965, parade prompted the United States to build an anti-missile defense system worth billions of dollars, said the magazine, Vlast. (AP)
 
RUSSIA: TO SEARCH FOR U.S. P.O.W.'S -- Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov has promised to help find evidence of whether Soviet spies plotted to seize American prisoners from the Vietnam War, a United States official said. Vice President Al Gore asked Mr. Primakov for help at a meeting in Malaysia. A bilateral looked into similar suspicions that the Soviets had detained American servicemen from the Korean War but said last year that it could not confirm that. (AP)
 
FRANCE: BRITISH AGENT FREED -- An appeals court rejected a British extradition request for a former British secret agent and ordered him freed. The agent, David Shayler, was arrested on Aug. 1 in Paris as he reportedly considered releasing information on a British plot to kill Muammar el-Qaddafi. (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: QUEEN GOES TO MARKET -- Queen Elizabeth II, left, took a turn around the City of London financial district for what aides called her first all-day visit to London's equivalent of Wall Street. Asked whether the Queen had been was fazed by the markets, Naomi Hill, a trader at Merrill Lynch, said after having chatted with Elizabeth, "She was totally knowledgeable." Alan Cowell (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: PINOCHET RULING DUE WEDNESDAY -- Gen. Augusto Pinochet will learn on Wednesday whether he is free to return to Chile or face extradition proceedings brought by Spain, which wants to try him for genocide. England's highest court is to rule on an appeal of a decision on Oct. 28 that found General Pinochet immune from arrest as a former head of state. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
PORTUGAL: MEAT EXPORTS BANNED -- The European Commission banned the export of beef and cattle from Portugal after a sharp rise in mad cow disease this year. Sixty-seven cases have been reported. (NYT)
 
FRANCE: STRIKE GROUNDS AIR FRANCE -- Air France flight attendants grounded more than half of the state-owned airline's flights on Tuesday and Wednesday in a strike for higher wages and longer rest periods between flights. Air France said it expected traffic to return to normal today. Craig R. Whitney (NYT)
 
AZERBAIJAN: EDITORS START HUNGER STRIKE -- Editors from 19 newspapers started a hunger strike to protest what they say is a campaign of repression against them by the Government of President Haydar Aliyev. The editors say criminal cases opened into the reported defamation of Mr. Aliyev in the press, as well as recent calls for tighter media controls by Parliament, are attempts at harassment and censorship. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
NORTH KOREA: 62% OF CHILDREN FOUND STUNTED -- An extensive survey of children found that 62 percent had been stunted by a lack of good food and that 16 percent were acutely malnourished, according to the United Nations World Food Program and other agencies. The survey suggested that North Korea ranked among the 10 countries in the world with the highest malnutrition rates. Nicholas D. Kristof (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ISRAEL: PALESTINIANS TO SEIZE ARMS -- The Palestinian police said they would start confiscating illegal weapons next week in compliance with the peace accord with Israel. The action, required under the land-for-security accord, will be among the issues that the Israeli Cabinet will examine when it decides on carrying out a first withdrawal of troops from part of the West Bank. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
DJIBOUTI: REACTION TO ERITREANS -- Djibouti has closed its embassy in Asmara and broken off diplomatic relations to protest an allegation by neighboring Eritrea that it sided with a third neighbor, Ethiopia, in a six-month border conflict. Eritrea fought a 30-year war against Ethiopia, gaining independence in 1993. But the border between the two has not officially been declared. (NYT)
 
ZIMBABWE: STRIKE OVER FARM SEIZURES -- Cities and farms were affected by discontent with President Robert Mugabe as a national strike paralyzed industry and white farmers faced new threats to their land. As factories fell silent and armed mobs besieged farms, 841 white farmers reportedly began receiving notices that the Government was planning to take their land. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SUDAN: SYMPATHY WINDFALL -- President Omar Hassan al-Bashir said an American missile attack on Aug. 20 on a pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum was a political windfall for his country. Mr. Bashir said in a speech to Parliament that the missile strike brought sympathy to the Sudanese people from throughout the world. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO, UNITED STATES: POPE'S TRAVEL PLANS -- The Vatican announced that Pope John Paul would visit Mexico and the United States in January. The eight-day trip will stop in Mexico City and St. Louis. (Reuters)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (50%); AF (AMS) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (50%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BEEF (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ARRESTS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); ESPIONAGE (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); KOREAN WAR (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%); MEATS (62%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (60%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (73%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



490 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Trade Deficit Ebbs, but Asia Toll Is Evident

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
As President Clinton left for Japan today declaring that "our workers and our farmers pay the price" for declining American exports to Asia, the Commerce Department reported trade figures suggesting that the price was not rising so quickly as many feared.
Shipments abroad of Boeing Company aircraft nearly doubled, narrowing the September trade deficit to $14 billion, down nearly $2 billion from a record monthly deficit in August. But the plane sales appeared to be a one-time statistical oddity, and the overall figures showed that the huge falloff in exports to the Pacific Rim -- combined with growing imports of steel, toys and electronics -- was beginning to take a larger toll on jobs and profits. 
 The figures underscored the political imperatives behind the dual messages that Mr. Clinton is expected to deliver in Japan and South Korea: that the United States wants to help the Asian economies, but not at the cost of absorbing more and more of their products.
Despite the slight improvement in the recent month's figures, for the first nine months of 1998 the United States trade deficit has been running about 50 percent higher than it was a year ago, when the Asian crisis was in its early months. That widening deficit poses what Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley recently called "a political problem of enormous magnitude."
This morning, Mr. Clinton said: "Nothing is more important to restoring stability and growth in Asia than efforts to restore Japan's economy. But it has been stalled for five years."
And for the first time he cited South Korea's giant conglomerates, the chaebol, saying that their resistance to economic liberalization had to end.
In both Tokyo and Seoul, Mr. Clinton's aides say, he will raise the subject of soaring shipments of foreign steel to the American market, an issue that has mobilized unions and steelmakers alike. The companies point to a first wave of layoffs in the steel industry as an indicator of what will happen to other American industries as the full effects of the Asian crisis begin to be felt broadly in American manufacturing.
"The fact is that the import explosion here has yet to really occur," said Allen Sinai, chief global economist of Primark Decision Economics in Boston. "The aircraft-export days are numbered for us. And when the Asian economies begin to do better with their production, the flood of cheaper imports will be noticeable, even on lean-and-mean American companies."
To be sure, those cheaper imports also offer advantages for American consumers and companies. They lower the cost of production for many concerns, particularly auto makers and construction companies that can buy parts or steel more cheaply. Many are now searching the world for such deals, gradually relying on more foreign suppliers. That often contributes to restraints in prices, allowing the kind of interest-rate cuts that the Federal Reserve announced on Tuesday.
The figures released today show how much of the current trade problem is rooted in Asia. The deficit with China for September, $5.9 billion, is larger than that with Japan for the month, $5.1 billion. Together, the two countries have surpluses in the trade of goods with the United States amounting to nearly $89 billion since the beginning of the year.
American car exports to Japan -- the subject of the Clinton Administration's big confrontation with Tokyo three years ago -- amounted to $79 million in September, and $709 million since the beginning of the year -- figures so paltry that they provide vivid evidence of how the economic downturn has wiped out any advantages from the 1995 agreement with the Japanese.
After Asian nations, the biggest trade deficits were with Canada and Mexico, the two other members of the North American Free Trade Agreement, totaling a little over $6 billion for September, and $24.4 billion since the beginning of the year. The United States continues to run a small surplus with Brazil, which received a $41.5 billion I.M.F. bailout last week. Trade with Brazil, however, is expected to turn into deficit as the Brazilians slip deeper into recession.
The Commerce Department said that exports in September increased to $77.1 billion, from $75.4 billion in August, but the entire difference was attributed to the aircraft sales.
Imports edged down to $91.2 billion from $91.3 billion in August.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade"
The graph compares imports to exports from April 1997- September 1998, and the amount of the deficit in billions of dollars. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BOEING CO (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STEEL AND IRON; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; STEEL AND IRON; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



491 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Late Surges Bring Wide Gains as Dow Climbs by 54.83

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Late-session surges drove stocks to broad gains yesterday as investors more thoroughly digested the Federal Reserve's decision the day before to cut interest rates for a third time in seven weeks.
"There's a heightened degree of confidence that the Fed is doing the right thing," said Frederick Taylor, chief investment officer at the United States Trust Company, predicting that the economy would "barely" grow next year while profits modestly fall. 
 The Dow Jones industrials finished with a gain of 54.83 points, to 9,041.11, a level just 3.2 percent below its mid-July record. The blue-chip gauge was down 19.3 percent from that record at the end of August.
Even better was yesterday's performance of the Nasdaq market, which climbed 18.92 points, just more than 1 percent, as various Internet and other technology raced ahead.
Netscape jumped 10, to 39 1/4, and America Online jumped 8 3/8, to 83 3/4, on talk of an alliance between the two companies. Ebay soared 18 7/8, to 147 1/2; Amazon.com 15 1/2, to 164, and Yahoo 13 3/8, to 190 1/8.
Earnings of these current darlings may be skimpy or nonexistent but according to one school of thought, their corporate fortunes would probably suffer far less than other businesses from recession or deflation.
Bank stocks, by contrast, were mostly lower yesterday. Cutting the prime rate in respose to the Fed rate reduction may have been a factor, but a bigger reason seemed to be disclosure of steeper costs associated with the Year 2000 computer problem.
J. P. Morgan eased 1, to 105 7/8; Bankers Trust 1 1/8, to 67 7/16. American Express, on the other hand, jumped 2 3/4, to 102 1/8, to account for about one-fifth of the Dow's rise.
The bond market was mixed, with short-term rates edging higher and longer-term rates a bit lower as traders and investors continued to bet on another round of interest-rate reductions at the next meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee on Dec. 22.
"Right now, I expect the Fed to ease again," said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers. The central bank might hold off then if stocks are at or near new highs, especially if holiday shopping is strong, he added, but "more easing is needed to prevent a liquidity squeeze from grabbing capital markets."
Mr. Stovall also cited the Wall Street maxim, supported by history, that any time the Fed cuts rates two or more times in sequence, both the stock and bond markets will advance over the following 12 months.
Another optimist yesterday was Clare W. Zempel, chief investment strategist at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee, who said, "The broad stock market has considerable room to rise."
He pointed to the relationship of yields on three-month Treasury bills to the earnings yield -- the inverse of the more common price-earnings calculation -- for the Standard & Poor's 500, a ratio now at its lowest level since early 1996.
"The risk-reward relationship is decisively on the side of reward," Mr. Zempel said.
Other Dow stocks with sizable gains yesterday were 3M, 2 7/16, to 82 1/16; Merck, 2 1/4, to 149 5/8; General Electric 1 3/4, to 91 3/4, and Wal-Mart, 1 3/4, to 73 3/8.
Because of the uncertainty of the general earnings outlook, "people are looking for the steady growers," said John E. Silvia, economist at Scudder Kemper Investments.
Campbell Soup, which reported higher earnings, climbed 15/16, to 56 7/16. DaimlerChrysler, in its second day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, rose 1 1/8, to 85.
The strength in drug stocks went well beyond Merck. Warner-Lambert rose 3 1/4, to 77 15/16, while gains for Bristol-Myers, Lilly and Schering-Plough reached 2 points or more.
Sun Microsystems closed down 1/16, to 66 5/8, after trading as high as 69 13/16. The stock had added 3 7/8 Tuesday as it won a licensing suit against Microsoft.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 51 issues hit new yearly highs and 32 sank to new lows, but declining issues slightly outnumbered advancing ones, 1,545 to 1,514. Volume was a moderate 652.5 million shares.
The Standard & Poor's 500 added 5.16 points, or 45-hundredths of 1 percent, while the small-cap Russell 2000 gained 69-hundredths of 1 percent.
Overseas, two of the most closely watched markets these days posted gains. Brazil's main index climbed 2.60 percent while Japan's Nikkei 225 gained 1.29 percent.
Stocks rose 2.30 percent in Mexico, 64-hundredths of 1 percent in Hong Kong and 30-hundredths of 1 percent in France but fell 52-hundredths of 1 percent in Britain and 37-hundredths of 1 percent in Germany.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since November 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); AOL INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



492 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: As New Mexico Courts Spain, Both Sides Are Hoping to Profit

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MADRID, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Four hundred years after Spain conquered New Mexico, the state this week sent its first trade mission here, along with American Indian religious dancers, to show there are no hard feelings.
In fact, ties between New Mexico and Spain have been on the mend since last April, when a Spanish official visited the state and met with American Indians whose ancestors suffered during the conquest by 500 Spaniards in 1598. 
 Both sides sensed opportunity in the 400th anniversary, deciding it was time to set a new course between Spain and New Mexico, which belonged to the Spanish Crown until 1821 and gained statehood in 1912.
The 140-member trade and cultural delegation, among the largest ever sent by any American state to Spain, comes just months after the arrival of the new American Ambassador, Edward L. Romero, a Democrat and a New Mexico businessman who traces his lineage back four centuries to a village near Madrid.
"If we're not able to make inroads into Spain with him being Ambassador, I don't know how we ever will," said New Mexico's Governor, Gary Johnson, a Republican.
Spain has rolled out the red carpet for the New Mexico delegation, part of its plan to build ties with all of its former territories, whether in Latin America, which has long received Madrid's attention, or in certain parts of the United States, where Spain is taking a closer look at the Hispanic traditions.
"Spain, at the end of the 20th century, with a bigger presence in the world, and more economic capacity and enthusiasm, wants to recuperate contact with those areas," said Jose Luis Solano, a Foreign Ministry spokesman.
Spain has worked hard since last spring to gain the confidence of New Mexico's Indians. Projects under discussion include assisting in the restoration of Pueblo Indian villages or exchanging teachers. The effort seems to be paying off.
"We cannot teach our children to hate. We have to establish a positive relationship for the next 400 years," said Earl Salazar, Governor of the San Juan Pueblo, whose dancers will perform at a ceremony this week in Madrid and in the village of Ambassador Romero's ancestors to bless the new relationship with Spain.
Madrid officials would like to be involved in New Mexico's $45 million Hispanic Cultural Center, which is scheduled to open in Albuquerque in December 1999. It will showcase Hispanic fine arts, literature and even cuisine.
"We couldn't stay out of an international Hispanic Cultural Center, could we?" said Maria Bassols, a Spanish diplomat. But she added, "We don't want big cooperation projects that will fall to nothing. We want little things that will grow."
Mr. Romero said Spain appeared to have a two-track approach with New Mexico, wooing the Indians and also the Hispanic residents in the state -- like him and his wife -- who have long been proud of their direct Spanish roots.
"I think they're playing up to both cultures," Mr. Romero said. "But it's hard to separate Spanish history in New Mexico from Native American history. A lot of Spaniards married Native Americans."
The state's population of 1.75 million is 40 percent Hispanic and 10 percent American Indian, and many of the latter have Spanish surnames.
During the visit, New Mexico's Indians, including 19 Pueblo tribes, hope to sell to Spain's largest department store chain, El Corte Ingles, at least $600,000 of their hand-made jewelry, while also courting other retailers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (98%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; NEW MEXICO; UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (98%); MADRID, SPAIN (94%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); DANCERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); TRENDS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, EDWARD L (AMB) BEN NELSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



493 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: THE REPUBLICAN TRANSITION: MAN IN THE NEWS -- Richard Keith Armey;
Ideologue With Swagger

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The House majority leader, Richard K. Armey, a man from North Dakota with Texas in his swagger, cannot help indulging in a hokey fishing tale or two when he is in a cheery mood. But seldom do they blossom into allegory.
"Think about the poor bass," Mr. Armey told reporters way back in September. "Put yourself in his place. You go into Denny's and you sit down and somebody puts your hamburger in front of you and you pick it up and take a bite. All of a sudden somebody grabs you by the mouth, drags you around the store, drags you outside, pulls the hook out of your mouth and throws you back into Denny's. That is what the poor fish goes through." 
 For Mr. Armey, the past three weeks have been no different. Many of his Republican colleagues aligned against him, eager to yank him out of the leadership position he has held since 1995. But, today, after weeks of intense lobbying for a second chance at the post of majority leader, Mr. Armey was re-elected.
It was far from a runaway victory; members voted three times in today's in-House election before the ballots finally sifted out the three other challengers and fell conclusively in Mr. Armey's favor.
"Each of us provided for the other a merry chase," said Mr. Armey, who represents suburban Dallas, after the secret votes were counted. Summing up the rigors of the challenge he faced, he added, "I have an even more keenly honed opportunity to live and learn."
On Nov. 4, the day after the election, it looked as if Mr. Armey, 58, would not survive the wrath of his Republican colleagues, who blamed their House leaders for ending up with a net loss of five seats. Few of them could forget the sight of the majority leader, on national television, sweeping aside dire predictions of Republican losses with braggadocio just hours before the polls close.
Speaker Newt Gingrich quickly resigned, and two other leaders were ousted today.
But Mr. Armey rallied, spending days on the phone and calling into action allies to help sway disillusioned members his way. The power of incumbency and his years of experience helped bolster his chances.
Born on July 7, 1940, in Cando, N.D., Richard Keith Armey worked as a grain elevator operator and a telephone lineman before he traded in blue-collar work for a degree from Jamestown College and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Oklahoma. He and his wife, Susan, have five children from previous marriages.
Mr. Armey is an ideologue who dislikes the current tax rate and the International Monetary Fund as much as he does the Washington cocktail circuit. (He reluctantly bought a tuxedo this year, which he pairs with armadillo-skin cowboy boots.) An architect of the Contract With America, he has fought against abortion and gun control, and championed school vouchers, which permit tax dollars to travel to private schools.
When asked amid the Lewinsky scandal what would happen if he ever found himself in President Clinton's position, Mr. Armey thought of his wife and replied, "I would be looking up from a pool of blood and hearing, 'How do I reload this thing?' "
Although he emerged victorious today, it has been a rocky year and a half for Mr. Armey. In July 1997, Mr. Armey attended a meeting of Republican rebels who sought to oust Mr. Gingrich. He told Mr. Gingrich about the plot, then disavowed any role in it. That left members distrustful.
Then, early in the year, he faced a brief challenge to his position from Representative Bill Paxon of upstate New York. In the end, it was Mr. Paxon who backed down and later retired.
But today, his allies reminded colleagues that Mr. Armey had campaigned hard for them, and is capable of learning from his mistakes. Although the vote was close, 127 to 95 in the third ballot, the argument worked.
Representative W. J. (Billy) Tauzin of Louisiana, who supported Mr. Armey, said Mr. Armey needs to bid farewell to the new style of firebrand Republican governance and develop a less abrasive leadership style.
"He's got to receive it as a stern message that members want him to work with Livingston," Mr. Tauzin added, referring to the new Speaker of the House, Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana. "This took a lot of assurances that Armey would be very much a team player."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); LOBBYING (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MARRIAGE (62%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (60%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; ARMEY, RICHARD K (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



494 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Even U.S. Sees Iraq Opposition As Faint Hope

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN and BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration, committed to renewed support for Iraqi dissidents, finds the opposition groups so weak and divided and penetrated by Iraqi agents that it is uncertain how to form a united front capable of toppling Saddam Hussein.
President Clinton caught the dissident groups and even some American officials off guard last weekend when he said the best way to avoid another crisis with Iraq was a change in Baghdad's Government. After aborting a planned air strike, he said the Administration would do more to support "forces of change in Iraq." 
 Mr. Clinton also embraced a new law that many in the Pentagon and his Administration had criticized as a waste of money. It calls for Washington to provide $97 million worth of military equipment and other resources to the dissidents.
Administration officials acknowledged that the President's address suddenly revived a policy that many critics believe had been on the back burner. Indeed, the President's announcement came weeks after the top United States commander in the gulf, Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, dismissed the new law, saying "I don't think these things have been thought out." Now, the White House and State Department are moving quickly to try to fill in the blanks.
And some of the Iraqi groups themselves have misgivings about new American backing. Leaders of some of the smaller groups say the United States may do little but revive discredited projects that lack popular support inside Iraq.
Soon after the President's address, Martin Indyk, an Assistant Secretary of State, met with Ahmed Chalabi, the leader of the Iraqi National Congress, which has been out of favor with the Administration since its operations in northern Iraq were decimated by the Iraqi Army two years ago. Mr. Chalabi lobbied Congress to pass the $97 million funding plan, and now hopes to push the Administration to designate his group as a prime beneficiary.
The Administration's support "represents a policy reversal," Mr. Chalabi said. "They have opened their arms."
The Administration also is accelerating efforts to help unite feuding Kurdish and other groups into a cohesive opposition. These include an influential Iranian-backed Islamic Shiite group. That group, the Supreme Assembly of the Islamic Revolution of Iraq, met privately with Clinton Administration officials in Washington three months ago, according to other dissident leaders. It is the largest among Iraqi Shiites in southern Iraq and may now be willing to take part in a United States-sponsored military action against Mr. Hussein, if Teheran approves.
Meanwhile, more than a dozen opposition groups in London were asked to meet with a British Government official the day after Prime Minister Tony Blair said Britain supported the efforts to undermine Saddam Hussein's regime.
But altogether, the number of dissident groups and their competing interests have hampered Washington and London in their search for a way to topple Mr. Hussein.
Clinton Administration officials acknowledged today that they are not yet ready to decide which groups would receive American support, and whether any would receive arms. Under the terms of law, called the Iraq Liberation Act, the President has until the end of January to announce which groups will receive American support.
"We are intensifying our engagement with the opposition groups by strengthening our economic and political support for them," said the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin. "With respect to arming them, we haven't ruled that out, but we think it is premature to do that."
Another senior State Department official was equally cautious. "We have to be realistic about how we go forward," he said. "Working with the opposition to help them unify to create an alternative is a critical first step."
Republicans in Congress say they are not convinced that the White House is serious. "They have taken a step towards support for the Iraq Liberation Act, but I don't see that they have really made a commitment to overthrow Saddam," said a senior Republican Senate aide. "And that's the purpose of the act."
Some Iraqi dissident groups, which divide across ethnic and sectarian lines, worry about American and British intentions, saying that any plan that provides support for the Iraqi National Congress will have little support inside the country.
"From the beginning, I realized that this is not for changing the regime in Iraq," said Sami Faraq, who writes a weekly column for a London-based weekly newspaper, Free Iraq. "This just to give cover to other activities, like influencing the situation in the north of Iraq, to make the Kurdish movement look like part of the opposition to Saddam Hussein, when in reality they are completely independent."
Saad Jabr, the publisher of Free Iraq and the son of a former Prime Minister of Iraq when it had a British-installed monarchy, recommended an indictment of Mr. Hussein for crimes against humanity and total diplomatic isolation for his regime, among other measures.
He also recommended spending "big money" on an effective satellite system for broadcasting to Iraq. A number of exiles mentioned that the Radio Free Iraq broadcasts that the United States has now begun are too little, too late.
"We don't think America is serious, unfortunately, about removing Saddam Hussein," Mr. Jabr said in an interview. And if the Clinton Administration wants to count on any serious support within the country, the Iraqi middle class living mostly in Baghdad or other towns in the country's Arabic, Sunni Muslim heartland, needed a psychological boost.
In Minnesota, Abbas Mehdi, a university professor who is chairman of the Union of Independent Iraqis, a group linking about 30 small groups, said the United States has embraced sanctions that cut into the living standards of the Iraqi middle class whose support it would need if Washington were to open up Iraqi politics.
"Sanctions are destroying the people and the country," he said. "They have weakened the people who now have to depend on Saddam Hussein more than ever. It pains me to see how people talk about the U.S. in the Middle East, not only in Iraq. People are angry."
Despite the new American interest, many American officials have grown wary of investing too much time or resources into groups that often seem more intent on fighting each other than toppling Mr. Hussein. Since the end of the Persian Gulf war, Mr. Hussein has exploited their differences and managed to subvert them, rather than the other way around.
American options have been so limited that the Central Intelligence Agency has been secretly funding one group that agency officials know has been betrayed by Iraqi agents, U.S. officials said.
The Iraqi National Accord, a group made up of former military officers and other defectors from the Baghdad regime, is still receiving C.I.A. backing more than two years after Iraq revealed that it knew all about the I.N.A.'s covert efforts to subvert Mr. Hussein's rule. In June 1996, Iraq rounded up and executed about 100 army officers and others suspected of involvement with the group, making it clear that he had agents inside the group.
Today, United States officials say they strongly suspect that the I.N.A., with offices in Amman, Jordan and London, is still riddled with double agents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: United Nations monitors in Baghdad loaded equipment yesterday before carrying out their first weapons inspection since returning this week. They did "a normal day's work," a United Nations spokesman said. (Reuters)(pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN (52%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN (52%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); RELIGION (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES; CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); TONY BLAIR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



495 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON with Joyce Wadler and Monique P. Yazigi 

 BODY:

Tripp Is Shopping For an Agent
LINDA R. TRIPP, who surreptitiously punched the record button when MONICA S. LEWINSKY poured out her heart on the phone, is looking for an agent. No, not LUCIANNE S. GOLDBERG.
A person close to Ms. Tripp who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that she and Ms. Goldberg never had a formal arrangement for Ms. Goldberg, a Manhattan literary agent, to represent her. This person said that Ms. Tripp and Ms. Goldberg remained friends but had "agreed" that Ms. Goldberg's appearance before a grand jury in Maryland last week made it impossible for them to have a "formal relationship." 
 The grand jury is considering whether Ms. Tripp, who lives in Howard County, Md., broke the Maryland wiretapping law by taping about 22 hours of conversations without Ms. Lewinsky's knowledge. Ms. Goldberg said after she testified last week that she was wrong when she told Ms. Tripp it would be legal to make the tapes.
The person close to Ms. Tripp said that Ms. Tripp had been dining with media types in Washington, including LARRY KING, the CNN talk-show host. "She certainly would be well within her rights to write a book," the person said. The Pentagon's refusal to let Ms. Tripp return to her job there and the possibility that she might be dismissed "makes it particularly important for her now to explore her economic options," the person said.
As for Ms. Goldberg, she, too, said that she had never represented Ms. Tripp. "I don't know why," she said yesterday, "but it's taken me a year to get people to realize I'm not Linda Tripp's agent and I never was."
 
A Bit Too Jumbo
The United Nations Sculpture Garden now has a full-size bronze elephant, a gift from Kenya, Namibia and Nepal. And it caused a stir even before its unveiling yesterday at a ceremony attended by SECRETARY GENERAL KOFI ANNAN.
It was too well-endowed for some.
"On Sunday, I received a call from the Ambassador from Nepal, who said: 'The penis is enormous. We brought in an expert to look. There has to be a surgical operation,' " said HANS JANITSCHEK, the chairman of a nonprofit group that had raised money for the project. "Where this expert came from I do not know."
NARENDRA BIKRAM SHAH, the permanent representative from Nepal, said yesterday that he had no problem with the sculpture. But such was the concern at the United Nations that a meeting was held in the office of UNDERSECRETARY GENERAL ALVARO DESOTO. The solution? To plant some bushes that block the view.
 
Runway Irregulars
So they were not really supermodels. But on Tuesday evening, half a dozen women looked like runway regulars in the Fifth Avenue showroom of Asprey & Garrard, jewelers for the English royals.
The models, women in their 30's who belong to the director's council of the Museum of the City of New York or the store's "tastemaking" advisory board, included WHITNEY FAIRCHILD, TARA ROCKEFELLER, RACHEL HOVNANIAN, ALEXIA PICKETT and OLEXA FARRELL. They got to dress up in beaded evening wear by TOMASZ STARZEWSKI. They had hair and makeup done by JOHN BARRETT at Bergdorf Goodman. And they got to wear baubles from Asprey & Garrard -- several million dollars' worth of diamonds, emeralds and gold.
They had to give back the dresses and the jewelry. But that was after they had paraded in front of 350 guests, who had packed the store and spilled out onto the sidewalk on 56th Street at Fifth Avenue.
"It was like a fantasy," said Ms. Hovnanian, who was perhaps a little too attached to the $57,000 diamond pave dropped earrings she had been wearing.
"They look great on you," a woman at the party said to her, and then suggested that maybe Ms. Hovnanian's husband, ARA, a New Jersey real-estate executive, might buy them for her.
He shrugged. The earrings went back to the vault. JAMES BARRON with Joyce Wadler and Monique P. Yazigi

GRAPHIC: Photo: LINDA R. TRIPP.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NAMIBIA (79%); KENYA (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NAMIBIA (79%); KENYA (67%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MONUMENTS; APPAREL UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); ENDOWMENTS (85%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); WIRETAPPING (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); LITERATURE (71%); FUNDRAISING (67%); SCULPTURE (67%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARRON, JAMES; WADLER, JOYCE; YAZIGI, MONIQUE P; TRIPP, LINDA R; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



496 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
U.S. Officials Admit Iraqi Opposition Is Weak
Clinton Administration officials acknowledged that Iraqi dissident groups were weak, divided and in many cases thoroughly penetrated by Iraqi agents, making it uncertain that they could ever drive Saddam Hussein from power. A1 

Drug Company Efforts in China
Western drug companies have been aggressively courting China's doctors and hospitals not only with new pills but also with gifts, money and even kickbacks -- practices that are banned in the United States -- in an effort to gain access to China's 1.2 billion-person market. A1
 
China Expels Reporter
China expelled a reporter for the German magazine Der Spiegel, accusing him of possessing secret documents. The move follows the deportation last month of a Japanese reporter on similar charges. A12
 
Asia Pacific Talks End
The leaders of 21 Pacific Rim countries wrapped up a contentious summit meeting in Malaysia with an almost palpable sigh of relief, pledging to revive a region that they said had been set back decades by the recent economic crisis. A10
 
Clinton Leaves for Asia
President Clinton said before leaving for a five-day trip to Asia that he would press Japan to take "decisive steps" to open its markets and revive its economy in hope of easing the global financial crisis. The President did not mention the economic package announced in Japan on Monday, instead emphasizing the need for follow-through on longstanding commitments to such policies. A9
 
New Inquiry in Chile Urged
The Roman Catholic Church in Chile is pushing to reconvene the 1991 Truth Commission to investigate deaths and disappearances during the Pinochet era. A14 
 
South Africa Shops for Arms
The South African Government, seeking to upgrade its aging military hardware, approved plans to spend about $5 billion to buy warships, submarines, helicopters and jets from Britain, Germany, Sweden and Italy. Opponents argued that the nation does not need expensive new weapons when half the country still lacks indoor plumbing. A17
 
Blackmail in Brazil?
Brazil's political leaders are asking who is behind the mysterious tapes and documents that seem to implicate the newly elected President, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, in potentially impeachable offenses. The matter has quickly become a distraction for the Brazilian Congress at the precise moment that Mr. Cardoso was hoping to focus the attention of legislators on the $41.5 billion loan and credit package agreement reached with the International Monetary Fund last week. A14
 
World Briefing A16
 
NATIONAL A20-33
 
Starr to Accuse President Of Obstructing Inquiries
Kenneth W. Starr will assert in the House impeachment hearing today that President Clinton abused his power to cover up his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky and also put up "roadblocks and hurdles" that slowed the prosecutor's other investigations, according to his prepared testimony. The Judiciary Committee chairman, Henry J. Hyde, said he would subpoena four new witnesses amid signs that the panel's inquiry was broadening. A1
 
Mr. Starr exonerates Mr. Clinton of personal culpability in several areas, including the dismissal of the White House travel office staff and the gathering of F.B.I. files. A25
 
Five Republicans said in interviews that they would oppose impeachment based on the known facts. A32
 
New G.O.P. House Leadership
House Republicans, as expected, chose Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana to become Speaker in January. They kept the Texas conservatives Dick Armey as majority leader and Tom DeLay as majority whip, but ousted John A. Boehner of Ohio as conference chairman, replacing him with J. C. Watts of Oklahoma. Thomas M. Davis 3d of Virginia will replace John Linder of Georgia as chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. A1
 
Bishops' Declaration
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops declared that they have a pastoral duty to try to persuade public officials who support abortion rights to undergo "a change of heart." A20
 
Gay Marriage in Vermont
The State Supreme Court heard arguments in a suit by gay couples who wish to marry. A20
 
Fragment of Ancient Asteroid
A geophysicist at the University of California at Los Angeles said he had found a fragment of the gigantic, rocky asteroid that scientists believe hit Earth 65 million years ago. A25
 
Deafness Gene Identified
Scientists have identified a gene that is a major cause of inherited deafness among Ashkenazi Jews, the vast majority of Jewish people in the United States. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-13
 
Plans Firm Up for Patriots To Move to Connecticut
Gov. John G. Rowland and the owner of the New England Patriots scheduled a news conference at the Capitol today to announce an agreement to move the N.F.L. team to a new stadium in downtown Hartford. A1
 
A New Guggenheim Branch
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is said to be quietly developing plans for a new branch at the Hudson River near Houston Street. B1
 
Spitzer Ready to Claim Victory
State election officials said that Eliot L. Spitzer was maintaining a thin lead in ballot counting in the attorney general's race, and aides to Mr. Spitzer said he was preparing to declare victory over Dennis C. Vacco. B1
 
$10.9 Billion for Schools
The Board of Education proposed a $10.9 billion construction budget that would pay for 64 new schools and repairs to hundreds of others. B3
 
National Book Awards
Alice McDermott, the author of "Charming Billy," a quiet novel about Irish-Americans, won the National Book Award for fiction. B5
 
ARTS E1-12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Rangers' Gonzalez Is M.V.P.
Juan Gonzalez, the Texas Rangers outfielder, was named the American League's most valuable player. D3
 
OBITUARIES B13-14
 
Perry H. Young Jr.
The first African-American pilot for a commercial airline in the United States was 79. B13
 
Esther Rolle
The African-American actress who gained wide recognition on the television shows "Maude" and "Good Times" was 78. B14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Livent Seeks Protection
Livent, the Broadway theater company that produces "Ragtime" and other shows, filed for bankruptcy protection. Livent's new management team also filed a lawsuit against the company's founders. C1
 
Boeing Helps Ease Imbalance
Boeing shipments helped lower the trade deficit in September by $2 billion, but over all, the huge falloff in exports to the Pacific Rim -- combined with growing imports -- is beginning to take a larger toll. C1
 
A Pledge to Support Java
Microsoft said it would continue to support the Java programming language in the wake of a Federal judge's ruling ordering the company to change its Java software. C1
 
Microsoft accused I.B.M. of engaging in many of the same practices that led to a Government antitrust suit against Microsoft. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-22
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Unseating Saddam Hussein; the Republican leaders cast off; vague waivers in labor contracts; delays in parade permits.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E8
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D5

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); IRAQ (95%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHILE (92%); GERMANY (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (56%); WEAK CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (57%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEAK CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (57%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); IRAQ (95%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHILE (92%); GERMANY (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); EXTORTION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEPORTATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); RELIGION (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); TESTIMONY (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



497 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Preoccupied With Mystery Tapes

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Washington and Wall Street may be breathing a sigh of relief now that a rescue package for the Brazilian economy has been stitched together. But the political leaders who will have to hold up Brazil's end of the bargain have suddenly become preoccupied with another troublesome question: Who fabricated the mysterious tapes and documents that implicate Brazil's President in potentially impeachable offenses?
Shortly before the re-election of Fernando Henrique Cardoso last month, potentially compromising recordings of intercepted telephone calls between senior Government officials, including Mr. Cardoso, were left under a highway underpass here. About the same time, an anonymous person sent a series of faxes highly unfavorable to the image of the President to a Government Minister, who made them available to the press in recent days. 
 The faxes purport to show that since 1994, Mr. Cardoso and three allies have maintained a secret offshore bank account and slush fund in the Cayman Islands with a balance of $368 million. In coded language, the faxed correspondence describes deposits and transfers made by a company in the Bahamas, CH, J & T Inc., whose initials correspond to those of its supposed owners.
The audiotapes, on the other hand, raise questions about the propriety of the Government's handling of the $19 billion privatization of the telephone company. Edited transcripts published this week indicate that those who were tapped talked with embarrassing and even vulgar frankness about friends and enemies: the Minister of Communications, for instance, has acknowledged that he referred to a senior aide to the Treasury Minister as "a blockhead," though, he asserted, only "in an affectionate manner."
The matter has quickly become a distraction for the Congress at the precise moment that Mr. Cardoso had been hoping to focus the attention of legislators on the $41.5 billion loan and credit package agreement reached with the International Monetary Fund last week. The accord is contingent on the Government adopting a series of budget cuts and administrative reforms, most of which would need to be approved by both houses of the Congress.
"Suddenly the President is confronting something no one expected, something that can consume the energy of his Government," said Alexandre Barros, a political analyst and commentator in Brasilia. "Clearly someone is trying to pull the rug from under his feet, and whether the charges are true or false, there is an element of wear and tear in this."
Mr. Cardoso's spokesman, Sergio Amaral, has dismissed the entire dossier as a crude forgery. "Of course he does not own any companies abroad," Mr. Amaral said at a news conference in Brasilia last week, adding that the only assets the President has overseas are two bank accounts in New York City with a total of about $23,000.
Indeed, nearly everything about the documents seems to indicate they are fraudulent. Though officials in the Bahamas have confirmed the existence of the company named in the correspondence, questions have arisen about the authenticity of signatures, and the letters contain misspellings and very awkward syntax, as if written by someone whose native language is not English.
For that reason, press accounts here have been openly skeptical about the effort to make Mr. Cardoso, who has a reputation for personal rectitude, look like the Brazilian equivalent of Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico. Nevertheless, the incidents have provoked several rounds of finger-pointing and speculation as to who is attempting to do in the President, who is scheduled to be inaugurated for his second four-year term in January.
Last week, a Senator said that former President Fernando Collor de Melo offered to send him a copy of the dossier and suggested to him that he make the information public. Mr. Collor, who resigned in 1992 just as the Congress was about to vote to impeach him on corruption charges, has denied making any such proposal. On Friday, Mr. Cardoso angrily attacked those behind the intrigue, calling them "farceurs and forgers" and indirectly pointing a finger at Mr. Collor. "It is necessary to express to the nation the indignation I feel at seeing people with no credibility whatsoever returning again to the public scene with insinuations," he said.
More enigmatic is the role played by Paulo Maluf, a former Mayor and Governor of Sao Paulo, the country's largest city and state. Mr. Maluf is nominally an ally of the President, but has long harbored presidential ambitions of his own, and admitted that his daughters also had a copy of the dossier and offered it to leaders of the main opposition party, who rejected the overture.
Mr. Maluf asserted that the women "acted on their own account" and without his knowledge. But he has also lashed out at members of Mr. Cardoso's Cabinet, saying their aim was to discredit his party.
The President's supporters have had to mute their criticisms of Mr. Maluf's conduct, though. The reason: If the financial rescue package crafted by the Cardoso Government and the I.M.F. during two months of difficult negotiations is to pass in the Congress, the support of legislators loyal to Mr. Maluf is essential.
Antonio Carlos Magalhaes, the Senate majority leader and one of Mr. Cardoso's closest political associates, last week appeared to rebuke Mr. Maluf, saying that the plot against Mr. Cardoso was "reprehensible" and that if Mr. Maluf was involved in any way "obviously it is an attitude that is disconcerting and does not dignify him." But, he continued, "I am not going to break with Maluf."
Sensing a political opportunity, opposition parties are now demanding a full-scale parliamentary investigation, which could drag on for months. Mr. Cardoso's supporters have resisted that effort, but then the head of the federal police announced the start of an official investigation and said he would call on all those whose names are mentioned in the affair, including Mr. Cardoso, to testify.
Mr. Amaral, the presidential spokesman, said that Mr. Cardoso was willing to cooperate "because it is necessary to bring an end to this infamy based on rumors."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fernando Henrique Cardoso says he is being framed. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND AB & T INC (68%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COUNTERFEITING (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); WIRETAPPING (71%); APPROVALS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



498 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Beijing to Expel Foreign Reporter, 2d in a Month

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 18

 BODY:
China today expelled a reporter for the German news magazine Der Spiegel, one day after eight officials burst into his office and accused him of possessing secret documents. The reporter, Jurgen Kremb, said he was told he must leave China within 48 hours and could not return for five years.
Last month another foreign reporter, from the Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun, was also charged with possessing state secrets and was deported. 
 Both reporters denied the charges.
In China almost any political or economic information that has not been published in the state media or announced by a senior official can be defined as a state secret, giving the authorities a ready tool for attacking people seen as opponents.
Both recent cases involved reporters who have angered security agencies with their reporting on human rights issues.
Mr. Kremb, 41, has reported from China for eight years. He is the author of a recent biography of Wei Jingsheng, the prominent democracy advocate who was sent from prison into exile in the United States last fall.
In 1997 Mr. Kremb was detained for two days when he visited Mr. Wei's family in Anhui Province. In a spottily enforced rule, journalists are supposed to obtain the permission of provincial authorities before conducting interviews anywhere in China.
Last summer Mr. Kremb began working in Singapore, but he was in Beijing this week in the latest of several reporting trips before his official accreditation and visa to work here as a journalist expire at the end of the year.
Mr. Kremb said the agents who raided his office pushed him roughly against a wall and read loudly from a document accusing him of violating the law. They searched the office for three hours, then confronted him with what they said were secret papers he held, and demanded that he sign a confession.
Mr. Kremb said he had refused to sign, and suggested that the officers might have planted evidence. "I was shown documents but refused to touch or even read them," he told the Reuters news agency. "I haven't been in my office for a long time and I don't even know if they were mine."
In a statement today, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said, "Mr. Kremb illegally possessed secret Chinese documents in violation of the law." The security agents lawfully searched Mr. Kremb's office, the statement said, "found a large amount of evidence and ordered him to leave China."
The German Foreign Ministry said it had complained about the treatment of Mr. Kremb to the Chinese Ambassador in Bonn.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (59%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: DER SPIEGEL (GERMAN MAGAZINE)

ORGANIZATION: DER SPIEGEL (GERMAN MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; JAPAN; GERMANY; CHINA (99%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); ANHUI, CHINA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA DEPORTATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); ACCREDITATION (50%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; KREMB, JURGEN JURGEN KREMB (95%); WEI JINGSHENG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



499 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Microsoft Accuses I.B.M. Of Attempted Collusion
In a series of attacks in Federal court, Microsoft accused I.B.M. of engaging in many of the same practices that led the Government and 20 states to file antitrust charges against Microsoft.
A Microsoft lawyer produced an E-mail message in which John M. Thompson, I.B.M.'s software chief, last year proposed to the leaders of Sun Microsystems and Netscape Communications a strategy for a joint campaign against Microsoft. Page C4. 

The staunchest supporters of William H. Gates can be found in the Microsoft Partner's Pavilion at the heart of the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas, Nev. C4.
 
Brazil Economy Contracts by 1.5%
Fanning widespread fears that Brazil is plunging into a full-fledged recession, the Government announced that the economy contracted by 1.5 percent in the third quarter. C6.
 
Stocks Post Broad Gains Late
Late-session surges drove stocks to broad gains as investors more thoroughly digested the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to cut interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 54.83 points, to 9,041.11. The Nasdaq did even better, climbing 18.92 points, or just more than 1 percent, to 1,897.44. The S.& P. 500 rose 5.16 points, to 1,144.48. C8.
 
Argentina raised $1 billion in seven-year debt, extending a bond-sale binge and proving it can still tap international markets. C8.
 
Tighter Rules Seen for Hedge Funds
As United States regulators tighten their scrutiny of hedge funds, officials say that they will likely require the often secretive funds to reveal more about how much debt they use and the risks they take with their money. C2.
 
Clinton's Stance on Cheap Imports
In the view of the Clinton Administration, it is acceptable for Russia and other countries to export their way to recovery as long as those exports do not land here. Mr. Clinton is right to seek protection from a deluge of temporarily cheap steel imports, but there are good and bad ways to do that. So far the Administration has not chosen the best course of action. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.
 
Sales Fall 4% for Glaxo Wellcome
Glaxo Wellcome, the world's second-largest drug maker, said that its 1998 sales through Oct. 31 fell 4 percent, within market forecasts, as increased sales of asthma drugs failed to offset slowing growth for other drugs. C6.
 
Profit Up 4.8% for Campbell Soup
Campbell Soup, which makes about 75 percent of the soup sold in the United States, said that first-quarter profit rose 4.8 percent because of cost cuts and higher-than-expected sales. Net income rose to $264 million, or 58 cents a diluted share, matching analysts' estimates. Campbell reduced spending, expanded overseas and shed some businesses. C5.
 
Surgery Set for Chief Executive
Waste Management said that its chief executive, John Drury, was scheduled to have a mass removed from his brain. But the company said that the operation was not life threatening and that Mr. Drury was expected back at work within a week to 10 days. C5.
 
Allied Signal Case in Lower Court
In an advance for Allied Signal, the company said that a Federal appeals court had given jurisdiction over the company's attempt to expand the board of AMP with its own directors back to a district court judge, who is likely to lift a preliminary injunction he imposed last month barring the board election. C5.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,041.11 up 54.83
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.26% down 0.04
The Dollar -- 121.65 yen up 0.65
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows Housing Starts. October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected +1.3%
 
Two other graphs show the daily closing price of Nasdaq, and the share price for Campbell soup for the week ending yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); TRADE SHOWS (55%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ASTHMA (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



500 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says He'll Press Japan to Take Strong Action

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Leaving Washington for an abbreviated five-day trip to Asia, President Clinton vowed today to press Japan to take "decisive steps" to open its markets and revive its economy in hopes of easing the global financial crisis.
In a sign of the cool if not downright suspicious reception that the Clinton Administration has given to the $195 billion package of tax cuts and spending announced here on Monday, the President did not even mention the package. Instead he emphasized the need for follow-through on longstanding commitments to such policies. 
 "Nothing is more important to restoring stability and growth in Asia than efforts to restart Japan's economy," Mr. Clinton said before boarding a helicopter on the South Lawn of the White House.
Declaring that the economy here has been "stalled for five years," he said he looked forward to "discussing how Japan can promptly and effectively implement its commitment" to reforming its banking system, opening protected industries to foreign competitors and priming consumer demand.
Mr. Clinton canceled the first part of the trip, to the annual summit meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation organization, held this year in Malaysia, as he planned and then aborted a military assault on Iraq. He sent Vice President Al Gore instead and then left to complete the other legs of the trip, to Japan, South Korea and Guam.
The decision to make the rest of the stops had the incidental benefit of placing Mr. Clinton out of the country as Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater special prosecutor, testifies before the House Judiciary Committee, which is weighing possible impeachment.
Administration officials hope that the trip will display Mr. Clinton as pointedly removed from Washington wrangling, conducting high-minded business -- confronting economic and security worries -- as Mr. Starr squares off with friendly Republicans and hostile Democrats. But the trip was long planned, and White House aides dismissed as preposterous any suggestion that Mr. Clinton was fleeing at Mr. Starr's approach.
"The international financial issues have been at the top of the President's agenda, and this trip offers him the chance to go and make the case for the new global financial architecture that he's been talking about, directly to the people of Japan and Korea," said the White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart.
Mr. Clinton will probably not avoid unpleasant matters at home altogether. He plans to answer reporters' questions on Saturday, in a joint appearance with President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea. White House aides said Mr. Clinton was highly unlikely to take more than two questions, however, insisting that the Koreans had set the ground rules.
As always Mr. Clinton tried today to emphasize the stakes for Americans in his financial negotiating abroad. "If people overseas lose their jobs," he said, "they can't afford American products, and our workers and farmers pay the price."
That thought seemed also to reflect the Administration's increasing worry about the possibility of rising protectionist sentiment. The American trade deficit with Japan totaled $5.1 billion in September, a great part of the nation's overall $14 billion deficit, Washington announced today. In particular, the Administration has come under great pressure from the American steel industry and steel workers to address a surge in steel imports from Japan.
"There's no question that there has been a surge and that that is certainly causing pain, real pain, in some steel communities in this country," said Gene Sperling, Mr. Clinton's national economics adviser.
Mr. Clinton plans to take his economic message directly to the Japanese people on Thursday. He is to hold a televised town-hall meeting with what the White House is billing as a cross-section of young Japanese, from 20 to 40.
In South Korea, where the Administration is pleased with economic steps that the Government has taken, Mr. Clinton is planning to deliver a gentler message of encouragement. But he said today that he would also press Mr. Kim to reform South Korea's banks and the huge conglomerates, whose debt is dragging down the economy.
On Sunday, Mr. Clinton plans to visit at least two American military bases in South Korea, in a reminder of the American security commitment there. But Joel Witt, a senior associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center, a military research organization in Washington, said that Japan and South Korea also wanted "to hear from the President that he's committed to seeking peaceful resolution of our differences with the North."
After leaving South Korea on Monday morning, Mr. Clinton is to give two speeches to residents of Guam before returning to the White House on Monday night.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC VENTURES (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (97%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LAYOFFS (62%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



501 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Stepping Back From the Brink With Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Kuwaitis Are Puzzled by Lack of U.S. Action" (news article, Nov. 18): How quickly we forget what happened the last time there was sustained military activity in the Persian Gulf: oil prices skyrocketed before a shot was fired. With the winter coming and the economy in a fragile state, is it possible that the Clinton Administration was considering the economic costs of another war in the Persian Gulf? 
 What we have seen appears to be a consistent example of Clintonian strategic policy. "It's the economy, stupid" may not sound very Presidential, but it works well for the American electorate and for our allies.
 
STEPHEN BELLINGER
San Francisco, Nov. 18, 1998
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); 

PERSON: BELLINGER, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



502 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: On Its Own Turf, It's Microsoft, Right or Wrong

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., Nov. 18

 BODY:
Just as President Nixon found support among construction workers during the Vietnam War, it is here in the PC-filled aisles of the Microsoft Partner's Pavilion at the heart of the sprawling Comdex computer trade show that the Microsoft Corporation's besieged chairman, William H. Gates, finds his staunchest supporters.
Like Nixon's defenders, whose rallying cry was "My country, right or wrong," many of these digital hard hats today say that Mr. Gates is the victim of a conspiracy. His enemies, they say, competitors who have lost in the marketplace, turned to the Government to save them when their products failed. 
 On Tuesday, in Federal court in San Jose, Calif., Mr. Gates's Internet strategy of "embrace and extend" -- in other words, to add Microsoft-specific features to industry-standard software -- suffered a stinging defeat.
Federal District Judge Ronald H. Whyte issued a temporary restraining order that gave Microsoft 90 days to make its Java software compatible with the version created by its archrival, Sun Microsystems, which owns the programming language, or remove it from its Windows software.
Moreover, that ruling followed weeks of damaging testimony in the trial of the Government's antitrust lawsuit against Microsoft, which has seen a parade of Government witnesses accuse the software giant of systematically using its control of the Windows operating system to defeat its competition.
To be sure, in other parts of the nation's largest computer trade show there were people who cheered the decision today and shared dark whispers accusing Microsoft of using strong-arm business tactics.
Yet here in the Microsoft Pavillion, one of the most crowded sections of the trade show, under banners trumpeting new advances in ease-of-use and productivity, neither court case dimmed the support of hundreds of Gates loyalists.
In row after row of personal computers featuring Windows software products of every description, from industrial automation to architectural support, 252 companies see themselves as living proof that the Windows business model is making money for more than just Microsoft.
These are companies that have started small, just as Mr. Gates did more than two decades ago, and have prospered writing programs that run on his Windows operating systems.
There is little love here for the idea of Government regulation or intervention. There is a pervasive hope that with perhaps just a bit of luck and a strong dose of entrepreneurial sweat and labor, it is still possible to match the success of Mr. Gates, the nation's wealthiest person.
"This is just Big Brother trying to beat this guy up," said Jack Ross, president of Cedar Systems, a five-person start-up in Bellevue, Wash.
Mr. Ross views Mr. Gates as a consistent innovator who has suffered some bad public relations defeats in recent weeks at the hands of the Justice Department.
"I don't see how the Government can come in and help settle the score after these guys have lost in the marketplace," he said, referring to Silicon Valley companies like Sun, the Netscape Communications Corporation and the Oracle Corporation, which are Microsoft's most bitter enemies.
That view is apparently shared by a majority of Americans. A CNN-USA Today poll by the Gallup organization that was reported on Tuesday found that 56 percent of 1,039 adults interviewed last weekend had a favorable opinion of Mr. Gates, compared with 55 percent in March before the antitrust trial began.
Of those polled, 44 percent said they sided with Microsoft in the trial, while only 28 percent backed the Justice Department.
Some at Comdex portray Mr. Gates's problem as simple politics. Microsoft, they say, has failed to educate the Government on how the software industry differs from other, more traditional American businesses.
"Microsoft is an extremely competitive company, like many others," said Paula Gil, an alliance manager at Best Software, a company in Reston, Va., that develops business software. Since going public last year, Best has seen the value of its stock almost double.
Ms. Gil, who expresses great admiration for Mr. Gates, recalled that when she heard him speak years ago, an audience member asked whom he feared most as a competitor. Without hesitation, she said, Mr. Gates answered that it was somebody working in a garage on a new idea that he had never heard about.
"I see guys walking up and down these aisles who look like they are barely 15 years old, and they are presidents of their own companies," Ms. Gil said. "That's the spirit of competition that characterizes this industry, and that's the perspective the Government is missing."
It was not just the cottage programmers here who believed that what is good for Microsoft is good for the country. Among the software industry's most successful figures, there are some who argue that while Microsoft's tactics have occasionally crossed the line, it is still important to defend the powerful company.
"Microsoft has done some bad things," said Gordon Eubanks, chairman of the Symantec Corporation, a Cupertino, Calif., developer of utility software.
But at the same time, Mr. Eubanks said, Mr. Gates is the victim of a broader trend in American culture: attacking and tearing down those who are too successful.
That view of Mr. Gates and Microsoft, as examplars of success that are being tampered with, is echoed repeatedly among those who believe that the operating-systems marketing wars of the 1980's are over and that resurrecting them will hurt business and slow progress.
"It's a privilege to work with Microsoft," said Ed Murray, a senior consultant at Wind 2 Software Inc. He values the broad computer industry compatibility that Microsoft's Windows operating systems has created. 'They're an innovator, and they're leading technology forward, and it will hurt the economy and hurt our business" if the Justice Department wins.
Microsoft loyalists share the view that the system is not broken, so the Government should not try to fix it.
"For us, Microsoft's size is a big advantage," said Robert W. Mosolgo, president of Owensville Systems, a six-person start-up in Charlottesville, Va., which makes network monitoring software. "They're a good supporter, and it would be impossible for us to even consider partnering against them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: What's good for Microsoft is good for the country -- that was the battle cry at the Microsoft Partners Pavilion at the Comdex show in Las Vegas, Nev., where support for the software giant was understandably high. (Mark J. Terrill for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMDEX COMPUTER SHOW (LAS VEGAS); MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (92%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMDEX COMPUTER SHOW (LAS VEGAS); MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (75%); WITNESSES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); JUDGES (69%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (68%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GATES, BILL (WILLIAM H) BILL GATES (90%); RICHARD NIXON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



503 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Says I.B.M. Tried To Enlist Rivals in Collusion

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
In a series of attacks in Federal court today, the Microsoft Corporation accused I.B.M. of engaging in many of the same practices that led the Federal Government and 20 states to file antitrust charges against Microsoft.
While cross-examining John Soyring, director of network computing software for the International Business Machines Corporation, a Microsoft lawyer produced an E-mail message in which John M. Thompson, I.B.M.'s software chief, last year proposed to the leaders of Sun Microsystems Inc. and the Netscape Communications Corporation a strategy for a joint campaign against Microsoft. 
 Mr. Thompson urged the others to help him enlist Oracle and Novell in the effort "to put Microsoft on the defensive." The E-mail was written in response to a plan by Microsoft to establish its own version of the Java programming language.
On Tuesday, a Federal judge in California gave Microsoft 90 days to make its version of Java compatible with the standards set by Sun, which invented and licenses the language.
But in court today, Microsoft's lawyer, Steven Holley, used Mr. Thompson's memo to contend that I.B.M. had been attempting collusion with several other companies to disadvantage Microsoft.
"We must clearly explain to our customers that Internet Explorer is Microsoft's primary weapon to kill 100 percent pure Java," Mr. Thompson wrote. Internet Explorer is Microsoft's World Wide Web browser, and it uses Microsoft's version of Java -- not the "100 percent pure" version authorized by Sun.
Mr. Holley asked Mr. Soyring, "Do you think it is appropriate for five of the leading computer companies in the world to meet and collude" against Microsoft?
Mr. Soyring said he had not been involved in the discussions and knew nothing about them. But the disclosure was potentially useful to Microsoft because the Government, in its antitrust suit, accuses Microsoft of illegally colluding with several other companies, including America Online and Apple Computer, to the disadvantage of Netscape, Microsoft's chief competitor in the market for Internet software.
The Government made public today the written testimony of Frederick R. Warren-Boulton, who will take the stand on Thursday. Mr. Warren-Boulton, an economist and former Justice Department official, makes a long and detailed academic and political argument that Microsoft is a monopolist, as antitrust law defines the term, and is therefore engaging in several activities that appear to violate antitrust laws.
"The price to consumers from Microsoft's maintenance of its PC operating system monopoly and its creation of a new monopoly in Internet browsers through its exclusionary practices is substantial," he wrote. "The price paid for personal-computer systems likely will be higher than it otherwise would have been," and "Microsoft's conduct will slow or halt the natural tendency of the marketplace to provide alternative technologies." As a result, "Microsoft's operating system monopoly would be further entrenched."
Mr. Warren-Boulton has held a number of prominent academic and political positions. But perhaps most interesting for someone arguing for antitrust enforcement against Microsoft is that he was chief economist for the antitrust division of the Justice Department during the Reagan Administration, which chose to pursue few antitrust cases.
In a statement today, Microsoft contended that "Mr. Warren-Boulton's testimony is clearly that of an ivory tower consultant with little or no direct experience in the day-to-day business and competitiveness of the U.S. software industry."
Several times during the trial, Microsoft has used the tactic of accusing its accusers of similar practices. The company argues that the computer industry plays by different rules than the rest of corporate America and that Federal prosecutors do not understand those rules.
But Justice Department lawyers say the argument means nothing; if other companies are violating the law, they should be prosecuted, too.
Today, Mr. Holley tried to make the case that I.B.M. was "integrating" the company's own browser, Web Explorer, with I.B.M.'s personal-computer operating system, O/S2 Warp. A key charge in the suit is that Microsoft illegally integrated Internet Explorer in the Windows operating system in an attempt to disadvantage Netscape. As part of his argument against I.B.M., Mr. Holley introduced into evidence the packaging for commerical copies of OS/2. Advertising copy on the box states, "IBM's WebExplorer is built in," and "Internet access has been integrated into OS/2 Warp."
"Why does it say that?" Mr. Holley asked.
Mr. Soyring replied that the phrases were marketing language, not an accurate technological description. Unlike Internet Explorer, he added, Web Explorer can be loaded into an OS/2 computer, and taken out again, without impairing the functioning of the operating system.
Still, Mr. Holley's questions, and similar questions he asked an Apple Computer executive early this month, may prove useful in showing that many other companies believe that including a Web browser along with an operating system is a useful and even essential marketing step.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); IBMC (BRU) (94%); IBM (NYSE) (94%); IBM (LSE) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (71%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC MICROSOFT CORP (94%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (94%); AOL INC (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (71%); NOVELL INC (57%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ATTORNEYS GENERAL; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WITNESSES (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); JUDGES (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (68%); 

PERSON: SOYRING, JOHN; THOMPSON, JOHN M; BRINKLEY, JOEL JOHN W THOMPSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



504 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Guggenheim Plans a Branch At the Hudson

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL and CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is quietly developing plans for a large new branch to be designed by the Los Angeles architect Frank Gehry and built at the Hudson River on Pier 40 off Houston Street, said people who were consulted on the project.
The proposed museum, part of a growing empire of Guggenheim outposts, including those in Spain and Germany, would be built on state land in the middle of a new shorefront state park, a short walk to Chelsea or SoHo, Manhattan's two major art centers. It would be the first major museum building to rise in the city since the Whitney in 1966 and perhaps the biggest change in the West Side skyline since the $500 million glass-sheathed New York Convention Center opened in 1986. 
 Like all projects affecting the ecology of the Hudson River, the museum would face extensive Federal, state and local review. Approval from the Army Corps of Engineers would be required if the building were to extend beyond the pier and into the river.
Mr. Gehry also designed the striking and highly acclaimed $100 million museum that the Guggenheim opened a year ago in Bilbao, Spain. The museum, with its rakish silhouette, sweeping curves and titanium skin, attracts more than 1.4 million visitors and millions of dollars in the last year to the old Basque riverfront city.
The proposed new museum in Manhattan could cost four times as much, with some prospective donors already offering support, people at the museum said. It would allow the Guggenheim to exhibit more of its permanent holdings of modern art as well as new collections and to greatly expand its programming, beefing up areas like photography, architecture and video.
Mr. Gehry and Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director, declined to discuss the project yesterday. Other officials at the museum said it was simply an idea in the early stages of development. Mr. Gehry, however, has already produced architectural drawings for the building.
The museum has also assembled figures on the project's economic benefits, claiming that in the first two years of operation, the new museum would generate $1 billion in tax revenues, extra tourism and employment for the city and state.
City and state officials said they had not yet been consulted, although Mr. Krens was said to have held a preliminary discussion about it with Gov. George E. Pataki in EastHampton last summer. Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for the Governor, did not respond to calls about the matter.
Pier 40 is, at nearly 15 acres, the largest pier jutting into the Hudson on Manhattan's West Side, sitting amid the new five-mile Hudson River Park established by the State Legislature and signed into law by Governor Pataki on Sept. 8. Work on the 500-acre park, which runs from Battery Park City to 59th Street, has just begun and is scheduled to last until 2003 at a cost of up to $390 million. Pier 40, on state-owned land, is now occupied by a three-story 2,200-car garage, in the shape of an oblong donut, which also has soccer fields on the roof and some areas for community use inside.
It is not yet clear how the museum would fit into the lengthy sliver park and the anticipated commercial development projects planned for as many as 19 renovated piers within the park area. Community leaders questioned about the museum's plan said it was the first they had heard of it and that they would not want the museum to supplant or dominate an important segment of the park.
The park, now controlled by a 13-member state-city trust, grew out of the long-disputed highway plan Westway, the multibillion-dollar sunken roadway that was to have run along the Hudson, but which was defeated in a concerted campaign by local opponents who cited environmental concerns.
People who have spoken with Mr. Krens said that the project has already been promised substantial private support from at least one trustee of the Guggenheim, Peter B. Lewis. Mr. Lewis, the new chairman of the Guggenheim Foundation and chairman and chief executive of the Progressive Corporation, a Cleveland-based insurance company, made an unrelated cash pledge of $50 million to the Guggenheim in April. Reached by phone, Mr. Lewis said he would not discuss the new project.
Mr. Lewis has long been close to Mr. Gehry, who worked for more than five years with Mr. Lewis on a $30 million house in Cleveland before the project was shelved several years ago. It was Mr. Gehry who introduced Mr. Krens to Mr. Lewis, who became a trustee of the Guggenheim in 1993.
If the new museum is built, people at the museum said, the Guggenheim would probably close its six-year-old branch on the corner of Broadway and Prince Street in SoHo. The outpost in SoHo has been a financial drain on the institution, reportedly incurring losses close to $40 million up to now.
Under Mr. Krens, who has led the museum for 11 years, the Guggenheim has embarked on a series of bold expansions.
Besides Bilbao, which has been hailed by critics as one of the most important works of architecture in the 20th-century and has already generated $219 million of revenue as well as $35 million in new tax revenue for the long-neglected industrial city on the Nervion River, it also opened a 7,000-square-foot exhibition space in Berlin on the ground floor of the newly renovated Deutsche Bank on the Unter den Linden, near the Brandenburg Gate.
Besides these completed projects, Mr. Krens has had ambitions for a Guggenheim presence in cities like Paris and Salzburg. But neither of the sites he had in mind for these cities has worked out.
Three years ago Mr. Krens announced that the Guggenheim was planning to open three new museum sites in Venice. (The museum already operates the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in the Palazzo Venier dei Leoni on Venice's Grand Canal.) But progress on these projects is moving slowly, Guggenheim officials said.
Floating an unusual $54 million bond issue, Mr. Krens also directed a sweeping $58 million renovation and expansion of the museum's landmark Frank Lloyd Wright structure on Fifth Avenue at 89th Street. And he opened the Guggenheim branch in SoHo in 1992.
Plans for the new branch in Manhattan have been so closely held that they did not come up on Monday night at a small private dinner of Guggenheim trustees and patrons to mark the election of Mr. Lewis as foundation chairman, one participant said.
Mr. Krens was said to have broached the plan last summer with Governor Pataki at the East Hampton home of Ronald O. Perelman, chairman of Revlon and the former president of the Guggenheim. Mr. Perelman would not discuss it, said a spokesman, Jim Conroy.
The state's economic development arm, the Empire State Development Corporation, has not been advised of any plans, said a spokesman for its chairman, Charles A. Gargano.
Asked whether he had been advised of the plan, Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, referred the question to City Hall. A spokeswoman for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Jennifer Chait, said the administration had not been contacted, but "we're always willing to listen to ideas."
Alan Jay Gerson, chairman of Community Board 2, covering SoHo and Greenwich Village, said no word of the project had circulated in the community. Mr. Gerson, who is also chairman of the waterways committee of the advisory panel to the Hudson River Park Conservancy, which planned the new park, said that a design competition had recently produced many proposals for the pier, but that the Guggenheim's was not among them.
The results will be discussed at a forum in January, he said. "I hope if the Guggenheim is serious, it will participate in this forum," he said.
"No one is against a wonderful art museum," Mr. Gerson said.
But he said the community would not want to sacrifice its park space. At any rate, he said, there might be any number of other sites to consider.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The proposed site of the new Guggenheim branch, off Houston Street on state land in a shorefront park. The Guggenheim's waterfront museum would probably replace its six-year-old, money-losing SoHo branch at Broadway and Prince Street. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map showing the location of Pier 40: A Pier 40 museum, in a shorefront park, would be a short walk to Chelsea or SoHo. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); GERMANY (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); GERMANY (88%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); GOVERNORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); STATE PARKS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); ARMIES (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; VOGEL, CAROL; GEHRY, FRANK FRANK GEHRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



505 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Paying for Mideast Plan, U.S. Walks Tightrope

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 18

 BODY:
President Clinton is promising Israel and the Palestinian Authority to pick up much of the bill for their new land-for-security plan. But buying peace will not be cheap, or easy.
The House Republican leadership change means that Congressional scrutiny could be more acute than originally anticipated. Israel's new aid request raises potential diplomatic problems, as the United States runs the risk of subsidizing roads to Jewish West Bank settlements. And greatly increasing aid to the Palestinians poses financial and political difficulties, American officials say. 
As the Clinton Administration weighs the Israeli and Palestinian requests, it is striving to insure that the entire aid package strengthens rather than further complicates its role as a mediator.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to seek up to $1 billion for pulling Israeli forces out of the West Bank, over and above the $2.9 billion in military and economic aid already earmarked for Israel this fiscal year. The new request comes just as Congress has reduced assistance to Israel for the first time in decades, cutting its yearly economic support check to $1.08 billion, from $1.2 billion, the beginning of what was announced as a 10-year phase-out of nonmilitary aid.
And Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, says he believes he has a green light to solicit as much as $300 million in new American assistance -- a big jump in American aid to Palestinian-controlled Gaza and the West Bank, which has been kept at $75 million annually for the last five years.
Until recently, Congressional approval did not seem much at issue. The House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, and the minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, had signaled readiness to provide substantial new assistance. But as the Appropriations Committee chairman, Representative Robert Livingston, now assured of becoming Mr. Gingrich's successor, was one of the few Congressional leaders who has publicly questioned economic aid to Israel. Congressional critics of Mr. Arafat, meanwhile, are likely to try to continue to block direct bilateral-style aid.
The Clinton Administration has not yet disclosed the full scope of its new appropriation request, which represents the fulfillment of a pledge by the President to help underwrite the costs of the interim peace accord negotiated last month in Wye, Md.
"The Administration is considering the details of a package which will address Israeli security requirements relating to Wye and Palestinian economic needs," Jim Foley, a State Department spokesman, said last Friday. "We are planning to consult with the Hill on this package."
Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and the Palestinian negotiator Mahmoud Abbas met at Israel's Foreign Ministry in Jerusalem today to discuss an agenda for full-scale talks on a final peace treaty. The talks are expected to begin by the end of the month.
While the expected American aid package will spotlight the large and widening gap between aid to Israel and aid to the Palestinians, irking some of Mr. Arafat's supporters, Palestinian economic officials hope that it will institutionalize American economic support of the kind Egypt has enjoyed since its 1979 peace treaty with Israel.
After the Oslo self-rule agreement in 1993, the United States announced a five-year, $500 million economic aid package for the West Bank and the Gaza Strip: $375 million in grants from the Agency for International Development and $125 million in loan guarantees for new local American business ventures from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The promised AID money was mostly spent -- the bulk of it on wells, sewage systems and other water installations -- but OPIC has provided just $6 million in the last five years. "We cannot undertake any assistance without a willing private investor," said Lawrence Spinelli, a spokesman for the investment corporation.
From all international sources, the Palestinian Authority was promised $4.2 billion in foreign assistance in the five years following Oslo, but received just $2.5 billion, most of it from Western Europe.
Over the same five-year period, Israel collected $15.3 billion in military and economic support from the United States, Palestinians note.
The Clinton Administration will gather international donors in Washington later this month to present a new aid pledge for Palestinian-controlled areas. The Palestinians hope that the meeting will nearly double international aid outlays, to $800 million or $900 million yearly, said Anis al-Qaq, who supervises Palestinian aid receipts as Deputy Minister of Planning and International Cooperation.
Israel gets economic aid in a yearly lump sum. "We basically just send a check," an American diplomat said. By contrast, all grants in areas governed by the Palestinian Authority go to specific projects supervised by a 60-member Agency for International Development office in Tel Aviv -- strictures imposed in part to avoid any inference that Washington is treating Mr. Arafat's administration as a sovereign entity.
"We are hoping for more symmetry between the aid we receive and what Israel receives," Mr. Qaq said. "We should be treated equally as to procedures and amounts for comparable projects."
Support for the Palestinians comes in the form of development assistance aimed at an impoverished population widely lacking jobs and basic public services.
The Israeli request is expected to be presented as a military-aid package, though some funds would be slotted for roads and other projects not exclusively linked to security. The biggest item will be the relocation of West Bank military installations -- some quite extensive.
Most Israeli analysts consider those expenses essential. The Israeli military is preparing estimates for "the costs of transferring Israeli Defense Force bases, of bypass roads, and of community security systems," said Dan Weinreich, chief spokesman for the Defense Ministry.
The most contentious financing issue is the widening network of bypass roads, circuitously linking isolated Jewish settlements in Palestinian-governed territory and Israeli-controlled fragments of the West Bank with each other and with Israel proper.
After the vote to approve the Wye withdrawal pact, the Israeli Cabinet gave the go-ahead for 12 new bypass routes serving settlements that will now be left as enclaves within autonomous Palestinian territory. The proposed 1999 budget, now being debated in the Israeli Parliament, had already called for a tripling of annual spending on bypass roads, to $28 million.
Avoiding the hearts and often even the periphery of local towns and villages, this emerging parallel road system enables Israeli motorists to traverse the West Bank with little or no contact with Palestinian residents. The roads also speed access to and from Israeli military bases.
Critics contend the bypass roads are leaching money away from public works within Israel's borders and entrenching settlements they oppose. A recent opinion poll commissioned by Washington showed most Israelis opposing further spending to support Jewish settlements deep inside the West Bank.
The road-building program is even more politically fraught for the Palestinian Authority. The bypasses almost invariably involve expropriations of Palestinian property, followed quickly by home demolitions, the forcible expulsion of local residents and angry street protests led by Mr. Arafat's Palestinian opponents.
Israeli military officers persuaded the Netanyahu Government last week to hold off on one planned route through a Palestinian refugee camp, warning that land seizures there could provoke violence and disrupt the Wye-mandated troop redeployments.
Still, Mr. Netanyahu has said that it is "as clear as daylight" that putting into effect the new peace accords would accelerate land seizures for new bypass projects.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about the possible financial cost of the Middle East plan to the United States departed from the preferred rendering of the Hebrew name of a leader of the Jewish settler movement. He uses Pinchas Wallerstein, not Pinkhas Valer shtein.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israel and the Palestinians seek American money to put their land-for-security plan into effect. Aharon Domb, left, and Pinkhas Valershtein, leaders of the settlers movement Yesha, trace pact on West Bank maps. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; WEST BANK; ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR BILL CLINTON (90%); STEVE ISRAEL (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998



506 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS

 BODY:

Music of Gershwin
 
MONDAY -- Jessye Norman, Audra McDonald, Ben Vereen and Bobby Short will be among those performing at an all-Gershwin concert to raise money for the Partnership for the Homeless. The evening will begin with cocktails at 6 and the show at 7 at the Community Church and Metropolitan Synagogue, 40 East 35th Street. Dinner will follow at the Union League Club, 38 East 37th Street. Tickets, $500, or $100 for cocktails and the performance only, from (212) 645-3444, ext. 102. 

Arts and Business Council
 
MONDAY -- The choreographer Peter Martins, the artist Robert Rauschenberg and the director and producer Harold Prince will be honored at a dinner at the Plaza benefiting the Arts and Business Council. Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup, will also be honored, and Wendy Wasserstein, the playwright, will be the master of ceremonies. Adam Neiman, a pianist, will perform, as will members of the cast of "Parade," a new musical directed by Mr. Prince. Drinks at 6:30. Black tie. Tickets, $500, from (212) 245-6570.
 
Helen Hayes Gala
MONDAY -- Maureen O'Hara and Evander Holyfield will be honored at the annual Helen Hayes Gala at the Marriott Marquis to benefit St. Clare's Hospital. Deborah Gibson will perform. Cocktails at 6:30 P.M. will be followed by dinner and dancing to the Peter Duchin Orchestra. Black tie. Tickets, $375, from (212) 679-5523.
 
Fighting Cancer
MONDAY -- The American-Italian Cancer Foundation, which sponsors research, education and screening programs in the United States and Europe, will benefit from a black-tie dinner and dance at the Pierre. Cocktails and a silent auction at 6 will be followed by a live auction and dinner. The items up for sale include dinner with Norman Mailer and box seats at La Scala in Milan. Tickets, $800, or $250 for those 35 and under, from (212) 628-9090.
 
Tribute to an Ambassador
MONDAY -- Harry Belafonte and Danny Glover will be the hosts of a dinner in honor of Franklin A. Sonn, the South African Ambassador to the United States. The evening at the Roosevelt Hotel, 45 East 45th Street, will benefit Shared Interest, which promotes community and economic development in South Africa. Dinner at 7 will be followed by a performance by members of the cast of "The Lion King." Tickets, $250, from (212) 873-5356.
 
A Variety Show
MONDAY -- Skitch Henderson and the New York Pops, Jon Lovitz, Peter Yarrow and Margaret Whiting are among those scheduled to perform at Carnegie Hall at a fund-raiser for the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation. The evening will begin with a buffet dinner at 5:30, followed by the show at 7:30 and a reception afterward. Tickets, $500; $150 for the show and reception, or $50 for the show alone, from (212) 696-1033.
 
On the Air
MONDAY -- Bill Moyers will be the host of a dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria to benefit WNYC Radio. Calvin Trillin will speak and Billie Tisch, a member of the radio station's board, will be honored. Cocktails at 6:30. Black tie. Tickets, $500, from (212) 614-0400.
 
Protecting Journalists
TUESDAY -- Tom Brokaw, Peter Jennings, Dan Rather and Charlie Rose are among those scheduled to speak at a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria to benefit the Committee to Protect Journalists. The black-tie evening will include the presentation of the International Press Freedom Awards. Cocktails at 6:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 465-9344, ext. 113.
 
Young Peacemakers
TUESDAY -- Conan O'Brien, the talk show host, will be the master of ceremonies at a reception at the Plaza benefiting Seeds of Peace, which brings Arab and Israeli children together at summer camp. The event, which will run from 6:30 to 10 P.M., will include silent and live auctions, an open bar, a buffet and a performance by Miri Ben-Ari, a jazz violinist. Tickets, $125, from (212) 573-8040.
 
Cocktails and Butterflies
DEC. 1 -- The American Museum of Natural History will hold its annual museum ball. The black-tie evening will begin at 7 with a reception in the Roosevelt Rotunda and the Hall of Biodiversity. During a cocktail hour, the museum's exhibition of live butterflies will be open to guests. Dinner and dancing will follow at 8 in the Hall of Ocean Life. Tickets, $750, from (212) 769-5166.
 
Foundling Hospital Gala
DEC. 1 -- John Cardinal O'Connor and Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, will be honored at a dinner and dance at the Sheraton New York. Patti LuPone will sing at the event, to benefit the New York Foundling Hospital. Drinks at 6:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 886-4043.
 
Alvin Ailey Opening Night
DEC. 2 -- The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater will open its 40th-anniversary season with a benefit performance and gala. The actors Angela Bassett and Robert De Niro will speak at the performance, to feature Mr. Ailey's "Revelations" and Geoffrey Holder's "Prodigal Prince." The 7 P.M. show at City Center, 131 West 55th Street, will be followed by a black-tie dinner and dance at the Sheraton New York. Tickets, $250, from (212) 767-0590, ext. 223, or $25 for the performance alone, from (212) 581-1212.
 
Fighting Diabetes
DEC. 2 -- The American Diabetes Association will benefit from a black-tie dinner and dance at the Plaza. Drinks at 6:30. Tickets, $500, from (888) 725-4925, ext. 244.
 
Needed: A Few Jolly Elves
DEC. 2 -- Guests at the fifth annual St. Nicholas Celebration concert at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine are asked to bring unwrapped holiday gifts for adults and children, to be distributed to five AIDS services organizations throughout the city. The event will begin at 7 P.M. and will include performances by the Chamber Choir of the New York City Gay Men's Chorus; Tim Brumfeld, organist; Sandra Goodman, contralto, and Lavender Light, a gospel choir. Admission to the concert is free. Information: (212) 633-1062.
 
Holiday Bazaar
DEC. 2 -- The Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, 331 East 70th Street, will open its 11th annual holiday bazaar with a preview party. The event will run from 5:30 to 9 P.M. and will feature silent and live auctions. The bazaar will be open to the public from 11 A.M. to 7 P.M. on Dec. 3 and 4, and from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. on Dec. 5. Tickets for the preview party, $75, from (212) 744-5022, ext. 282.
 
Equal Opportunity Awards
DEC. 2 -- The 20th annual Equal Opportunity Awards Dinner benefiting the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund will be held at the New York Hilton. Those being honored are C. Michael Armstrong, the chairman of AT[T] Jane Pratt, the editor in chief of Jane magazine; Frank N. Newman, the chairman of Bankers Trust, and Michael Gould, the chairman of Bloomingdale's. A cocktail reception at 6 will be followed by dinner and the ceremony. Tickets, $500, from (212) 997-0100.
 
A Black and White Ball
DEC. 3 -- The Glaucoma Foundation will hold its 12th annual Black and White Ball at the World Financial Center. Cocktails at 6 P.M. in the lobby of the American Express Building, 200 Vesey Street (West Street), will be followed at 8 by dinner and dancing in the Winter Garden, 225 Liberty Street. Black tie. Tickets, $750, from (212) 504-1903.
 
Abilities, Not Disabilities
DEC. 3 -- A black-tie dinner and dance at the Waldorf-Astoria will raise money for Just One Break, an employment agency for people with disabilities. Stone Phillips of "Dateline NBC" will be the master of ceremonies, and Arthur J. Mirante 2d, the president of Cushman & Wakefield, will be honored. Tickets, $600, from (212) 785-7300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (59%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (59%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FUNDRAISING (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); THEATER (78%); DANCE (78%); OPERA (75%); AUCTIONS (75%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (70%); LEUKEMIA (70%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CANCER (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); RELIGION (57%); 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



507 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 6; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: A Village With Music In the Family, And in Class

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
While many public schools, struggling under budget constraints and competing academic interests, are marginalizing arts programs, if not eliminating them altogether, the opposite is happening in the small village of Greenport at the tip of the North Fork on Long Island.
Early next year, under the leadership of David E. Kapell, the Mayor of Greenport since 1994, a new program will bring classical music to the 600 students in the town's single public school. Mr. Kapell's support for classical music comes not just from his belief in the value of the arts but also from his personal history. He is the son of the pianist William Kapell, who died in a plane crash in 1953 when he was just 31 and at the peak of acclaim. At the time, David Kapell was 4. 
 Mr. Kapell's mission has been aided by another Greenport resident, John Serkin, also the son of a famous pianist. Mr. Serkin, the third of Rudolf Serkin's six children and a onetime French horn player, is now a piano technician and tuner and serves on the village's Arts and Culture Committee. He was instrumental in working out the details of the new arts program, which will bring students from the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia to classrooms in Greenport, where they will discuss and perform music. Rudolf Serkin, who died in 1991, was a longtime director of the Curtis Institute.
To raise money for the program, Mr. Serkin has solicited the help of his younger brother, the pianist Peter Serkin, who is to play a benefit recital on Sunday at 2 P.M. in the Greenport School Auditorium. Mr. Serkin will perform on a grand piano provided by Steinway & Sons in Manhattan. With this gesture, the company is both supporting the educational initiative and honoring the memory of two major pianists who were exclusive Steinway artists.
The piano, valued at $50,000, is essentially being lent to the school, though the term the company prefers to describe the arrangement is "long-term placement." It will be moved to the auditorium for Mr. Serkin's recital but will be kept permanently in a new wing of the village's Floyd Memorial Library, where the Curtis students will present concerts in conjunction with their work in the classrooms.
"We couldn't be more grateful," Mr. Kapell said recently, speaking of the Steinway company's and Peter Serkin's contributions. "The arts program in Greenport has been minimal, if anything. Our kids were missing cultural expansion, which is a shame."
The program has two goals: nurturing aspiring musicians and developing appreciation and audiences for the arts. The response, Mr. Kapell said, is "really surprising" and "very encouraging." The hall, which seats more than 700, is sold out for Sunday's concert, and the waiting list for tickets is approaching 100.
"It's overwhelmingly local people who are coming, people who live within 10 miles of the village," Mr. Kapell said.
And, thanks to benefactors who contributed $500 each, at least 150 seats will be occupied free by students from nearby school districts.
The Mayor described Greenport as a "true blue-collar town, fundamentally," though this "belies the broader demographics" of the area and its small, stable and diverse economy. Local industries include fishing, wineries, retail and tourism. While the population of the incorporated village is 2,100, the school serves a district of 5,000 residents.
John Serkin has been tuning the piano and voicing it (adjusting the density of the felt hammerheads for sound quality) in preparation for his brother's recital.
"David Kapell and I had the good fortune to have four pianos in the Steinway showroom to choose from," Mr. Serkin said. "Three were brand new, but we picked the one that was three years old, and it's fantastic, one of the nicest model B's I've ever worked on."
He added that his brother's benefit recital should generate enough money to support the music program for a full three years.
In choosing the works he will play, Peter Serkin has devised a substantive and varied program, including shorter pieces by Chopin, Debussy and Messiaen; recent works by Gyorgy Kurtag and George Benjamin; Schoenberg's Piano Suite, Op. 25 (a challenging 12-tone work that Mr. Serkin plays vibrantly), and, in the second half, Mozart's Sonata K. 332 and Beethoven's "Les Adieu" Sonata.
"We can't wait," the Mayor said. "The students are excited. You never know where the next great musician is going to come from. It could be Greenport."

GRAPHIC: Photo: They know a fine way: Mayor David E. Kapell of Greenport, N.Y., left, and John Serkin admire the village's new Steinway grand piano. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STEINWAY & SONS (53%); GREENPORT SCHOOL AUDITORIUM (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPORT SCHOOL AUDITORIUM (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENPORT (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MAYORS (90%); MUSIC (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (54%); 

PERSON: KAPELL, DAVID (MAYOR); SERKIN, JOHN; SERKIN, PETER; KAPELL, WILLIAM (1922-53); TOMMASINI, ANTHONY RUDOLF SERKIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



508 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 39; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4128 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Beer Made the City Famous; Revival Keeps It Bubbling

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE

 BODY:
Sometimes, from some angles, Milwaukee can fool you. Is this Chicago? There's the lake: the same immense lake, Lake Michigan, stretching to the horizon, bigger than all of Switzerland. There's Wisconsin Avenue, the main drag, which crosses the Milwaukee River on a bridge that looks a lot like the one that carries Michigan Avenue across the Chicago River.
Both cities have bold, modern trademark buildings with prominent zigzag braces, designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill: the Firstar Center in Milwaukee and the John Hancock Center in Chicago. Both cities nurture old-country traditions, exuberantly celebrated at annual festivals. Both have mastered the Midwestern knack of keeping their feet on the ground. 
 But Milwaukee, as its visitors bureau proclaimed in an advertising campaign a few years back, is Chicago several million people ago.
It is less crowded, less clogged with traffic, less expensive. "It's a big little town, a real family town," said Terry Benske, a real estate agent, who makes part of her living selling houses to people who move here from Chicago after they marry and have children, commuting back to their jobs.
On a gloomy day, when the cold, raw winds are blowing hard, Milwaukee may indeed provide "a gray landscape, drawn with hard lines and great attention to detail," as Cecil Beaton, the English photographer, wrote after a 1955 visit. But on a bright day with the sun glinting off the lake, downtown is something else again, whatever the season, a triumph of civic resuscitation.
The city has saved the best of its past. "Those old Germans," a Milwaukee friend of mine says, "were too frugal to tear anything down, thank God." So marvelous Victorian buildings like the Richardsonian Romanesque Pfister Hotel and the pseudo-Flemish, flatiron-shaped City Hall, built in emulation of guild halls in Belgium, stand amid sober neo-classical structures like the headquarters of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company; Art Deco towers like the jaunty Wisconsin Gas Company building, with a neon "flame" on top whose color forecasts the weather, and modern high-rises by the likes of Chicago's Harry Weese and Helmut Jahn.
You can see a lot of them from the new Riverwalk, a pleasant introduction to the city, if not quite the throbbing crossroads that San Antonio's is. From there, it's only a short stroll to Marquette University's campus on the western edge of downtown.
Lately, Milwaukee has been on a building spree. In July, the first phase of the post-modern Midwest Express Center, a 667,475-square-foot convention site, opened for business. In 2000, Miller Park will open, a new ball park in an old idiom, like Baltimore's and Cleveland's, a kind of monument to Bud Selig, the former owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, now the Commissioner of Baseball, who waged war with the politicians over financing and location.
That same year, a $50 million addition to the Milwaukee Art Museum is to be unveiled. Overlooking Lake Michigan, designed by Santiago Calatrava, a young Spanish architect on the brink of international superstar status who has never built anything in the United States, it is meant to be a kind of signature structure for the city, comparable to Sydney's Opera House.
 
A 'Livable City'
So far, downtown is a happy mix that looks neither random nor "renewed," but somehow organic. That, a low crime rate and the many comfortable residential neighborhoods, from upper-crust Shorewood, north along the lake, to the more proletarian South Side, help to earn Milwaukee the prime 20th-century urban encomiums. It is a "livable city," people say. "Manageable."
Jack L. Goodsitt, one of the city's most lovable curmudgeons, complains that Milwaukee has been in decline since the 1930's, when George M. Cohan and Helen Hayes brought touring companies into downtown theaters, and Eugene's, a waterside restaurant, served "the best food the city has ever seen."
But he moved back after spending four years in Palm Beach.
"Nothing ever happens here," groused Mr. Goodsitt, a lawyer. "But the one thing we have is people. They do read books, they think, they talk. There's real intellectual ferment. That matters more than the weather or anything else. Palm Beach? All they talk about there is golf and boats."
 
Culture and Custard
Milwaukee's shoulders may not be as big as the Windy City's, but it is no 90-pound weakling. It is the nation's 17th largest city, with a population of 610,000 and an area of 96 square miles, and the four-county metropolitan area has a population of 1.4 million. Enough to support the Brewers and the basketball Bucks, enough to sustain a venerable cultural tradition, and enough to consume Rabelaisian quantities of bratwurst, beer and frozen custard.
Modern-day Milwaukeeans don't have much time for the stereotypical image of their city. They don't think of themselves anymore as a beer-'n'-brats, blue-collar bunch, however many sausages they might scarf down during a Sunday doubleheader at County Stadium (or when they head in their tens of thousands up Interstate 43 to Green Bay, a couple of hours north, for a Packers game).
Nor do they think of themselves as America's pre-eminent German city, even if President Clinton brought the former German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to town to give him a taste of home. Look at our Polish festival, they say, our Irish festival, our Summerfest. Look at Serb Hall, on the south side; go on Friday night, for the fish fry.
Schlitz, "the beer that made Milwaukee famous," is gone, which is hard to believe in a city where they used to say that kitchens were built with three taps, marked hot, cold and Schlitz. Only the philanthropies of the Uihlein family, who brewed it, remain as reminders. Blatz is defunct, the grand old brewery recycled now as apartments and offices, and Pabst lives on solely in the elaborate theater that Capt. Frederick Pabst built in 1895.
Only the Miller Brewing Company prospers (you can tour the brewery on West State Street), joined by a number of thriving micro-breweries, notably Sprecher and Lakeside. But everyone knows the big keg now is St. Louis, another city with roots in Germany and the headquarters of Anheuser-Busch.
 
Built With Precision
Most of Milwaukee's famous German restaurants have seen better days, though there is nothing faded about Fred Usinger Inc., which has been the king of American wurstmachers (sausage-makers) since 1880. The 1998 Christmas catalogue rests beside me as I write, pure balm for the Hun in me: braunschweiger, beerwurst, thueringer, weisswurst, yachtwurst (ah, yachtwurst).
People here, as in Munich or Hamburg, are compulsively orderly; anyone who doesn't keep a neat house and a trim lawn is treated as a menace to society. But few speak German anymore, though as late as 1885, two of three people who read a daily newspaper here read it in that language, not in English.
If the Milwaukee Germans have assimilated, along with the Boston Irish and the Philadelphia Italians, they have left behind a formidable legacy; Milwaukee's German-American past has shaped its more cosmopolitan present.
The city's economy is built upon precision manufacturing, a field in which the German and other immigrants brought skills as well as Mitteleuropean work habits with them. That tradition lives on in industrial companies like Johnson Controls, A. O. Smith, Briggs & Stratton, Harnischfeger and Rockwell Automation (formerly Allen-Bradley), all with headquarters in Milwaukee. Harley-Davidson motorcycles are made here, Case International tractors in Racine.
Many of the immigrants carried progressive political ideals in their baggage. Milwaukee elected Victor L. Berger, the first Socialist to sit in Congress, in 1910 and again from 1918 to 1926. Daniel Webster Hoan, another Socialist, served as the city's Mayor for 24 years, and one of its most impressive bridges is named for him, although he opposed its construction.
Socialist ideas had a profound impact on young Golda Mabovitz, whose family had immigrated to Milwaukee from the Ukraine. Educated at North Division High School and Milwaukee Teachers' Training College, she married a sign painter and emigrated to Israel in 1921. As Golda Meir, she rose gradually in the Labor Party and served from 1969 to 1974 as Israel's fourth premier.
 
A Revived Orchestra
Back in Milwaukee, Socialism eventually died out, to be succeeded by liberalism, its half-brother, as the city's creed. For decades, two German-American Democrats held sway here: Mayor Henry W. Maier, who served seven terms, and Representative Henry S. Reuss, an expert on the banking system.
Milwaukee lent strong support as well to statewide political powers like the La Follettes and other Progressives, and liberal Democrats like Gaylord A. Nelson and Patrick J. Lucey. Even in a conservative era like the present, the city contributed a thumping majority to the recent re-election of Russell D. Feingold, one of the more liberal (and less conventional) members of the Senate, whose father was a part-time Progressive organizer.
Like many medium-size cities with a Germanic heritage, like St. Louis and Cincinnati, Milwaukee has a well entrenched musical tradition. But like many cities, Milwaukee watched in dismay as the finances of its musical mainstay dried up. Starting in the 1980's, season subscriptions to the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra stalled; fund-raising flagged; labor relations soured, so much that in January 1994, musicians refused to take the stage.
But the refurbishing of Uihlein Hall, part of the Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, and the appointment in 1996 of Andreas Delfs as musical director helped spark a turnaround.
German-born, Juilliard-trained, Mr. Delfs also conducts the Hanover State Opera and Orchestra in the hometown of the new German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, and Milwaukee classical music fans have flocked to his concerts. Accustomed to three sellouts a year, the orchestra had 30 last season.
The remaining schedule for this season includes programs featuring Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg, the violinist; Sabine Meyer, the clarinetist, and Pascal Roge, the pianist. Mahler, Mozart and Brahms will get their turns, but there are several more venturesome items on the program as well: contemporary works by Takemitsu and Corigliano, plus a Howard Hanson symphony and large-scale choral works (Mendelssohn's "Elijah" in March and Martinu's Tocatta in June).
 
An Opera Premiere
Now 66 years old, the Florentine Opera Company, which also performs in Uihlein Hall, opened last week with "Cav" and "Pag." But it, too, is dipping into unfamiliar repertory.
In February, it will give the American premiere of Lowell Liebermann's "Picture of Dorian Gray," the first such premiere it has ever presented. Based on Oscar Wilde's novel and first performed in Monte Carlo in 1996, the opera is part of a Wilde boomlet on stage and screen.
A third Uihlein tenant, the Milwaukee Ballet, has sunk a million dollars into a new production of "The Nutcracker" for the holiday season, a lot for a small regional company. The choreographer is Lisa de Ribere, an alumna of both the American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet.
Alfred Lunt, Milwaukee-born, would be pleased with his hometown.
Four touring Broadway shows will hit town this season, as well as five productions by the Skylight Opera Company, including Gilbert and Sullivan, Rodgers and Hammerstein and Donizetti's fizzy "Don Pasquale." The Pabst Theater; the Milwaukee Repertory, currently presenting works by Tennessee Williams, Carlo Goldoni and Steve Martin, and First Stage Milwaukee, which commissioned a new play this year from the 1992 Pulitzer Prize winner, Robert Schenkkan, all contribute to a sparkling cultural scene. Nobody need go to Chicago for brain food.
Even a slavish devotee of Eero Saarinen and Frank Lloyd Wright like myself must admit that neither did his best by Milwaukee.
Facing an impossible commission to design a combination war memorial and art museum, Saarinen built something boxy that has aged poorly, but its shortcomings will soon be eased. Attempting to echo the domed majesty of Santa Sophia in Istanbul, Wright designed a sky-blue and buff-colored flying saucer for the Annunciation Greek Orthodox Church, but several of Wright's masterpieces are nearby.
The art museum's setting smack on the lakeshore, shared by few other Milwaukee buildings, is its trump card. That will be re-emphasized by Calatrava's addition, south of the Saarinen structure, that recalls both his celebrated Alamillo Bridge in Seville, a harplike span across the Guadalquivir River, and his Satolas train station at Lyons airport in France.
Here, a vaulted, 450-foot-long pavilion, a story and a half tall, with new galleries for temporary exhibitions, forms a link to a 90-foot-high reception hall, covered by a movable, louvered sun break made of carbon fiber.
This will be connected to the foot of Wisconsin Avenue, where an orange Mark di Suvero sculpture stands by an airy suspension footbridge. For someone strolling down Wisconsin toward the lake, the sculpture will line up with the bridge and two angled masts: one, 90 feet long, atop the reception hall, the other, 200 feet tall, at the end of the bridge. Saarinen's building is right angles; Calatrava's, designed to complement it, is curves.
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel called the plan audacious and congratulated the museum for doing something so "daringly un-Milwaukee."
During construction, the permanent collection remains open. Its strengths, to my eye, are a superb assemblage of American folk art, one of the world's leading collections of Haitian art and a fabulous group of German Expressionists: Kirchner, Nolde, Beckmann et al. (A word of warning: owing to the vagaries of donors' wills, the Expressionists are split into two groups on two different floors.)
A major gift in 1997 brought the museum's holdings of works by Georgia O'Keeffe to 21, one of the largest such groups outside the museum in New Mexico devoted exclusively to her.
 
Seeing Wright in Racine
The decorative arts collection includes a group of objects designed by Prairie School architects, not only Wright but others in his circle, including George Niedecken and George W. Maher. But to get a fuller picture of Wright's genius at work, take a trip to his home, Taliesen, near Spring Green, about 110 miles west of Milwaukee, or to Racine, 30 miles south.
I would choose Racine, not only because it is closer but also because you can visit there both the headquarters of the S. C. Johnson Company (guided tours on Fridays) and Wingspread, home of Hibbard Johnson, who was the company's president (self-guided tours Monday through Friday). Both rank among Wright's finest work.
The administrative office of the Johnson company is an astonishing space, unlike anything built before or since, with skylights made of Pyrex tubing and slender dendriform supporting columns. Wright called it "a temple of work, a place you will love to be in." In the recent Ken Burns television biography, Wright's assistant and acolyte, Edgar Tafel, dubbed it the architect's "Ninth Symphony," and Philip Johnson termed it "the finest room in America."
No wonder the boss hired Wright for Wingspread, a graceful knoll-top house whose wings, to borrow the language of the art historian Henry-Russell Hitchcock, "ride the grassed slopes as if they were floating on waves."
 
'A Big Little Town'
 
Here is information about visiting the Milwaukee area:
 
Where to Stay
 
 HILTON, 509 West Wisconsin Avenue, (414) 271-7250. This 500-room Art Deco monolith started life as the Schroder, then became the Marc before joining the Hilton clan. Voted one of the best in the chain after a recent renovation (still more rooms are coming), it is well situated for conventions and culture. Doubles, $109 to $154.
 
 METRO, 411 East Mason Street, (414) 272-1937. Brand new, and brilliantly designed to evoke France in the 1920's, with unusually handsome chairs, rugs and sofas in the lobby. Its 65 suites are also well done, with purest cotton sheets on the beds. The cafe has tables outdoors and a sinuous, welcoming bar. Doubles, $165 to $225; weekend specials, $129.
 
 PFISTER, 424 East Wisconsin Avenue, (414) 273-8222. "Grande dame" is the cliche among older hotels; the Pfister lives up to it. The Victorian lobby -- painted ceiling, palm court and paintings of zaftig ladies -- bustles all day long, and rooms in the old section, opening off blessedly wide corridors, offer every comfort; stay there, if you can, rather than in the newer tower. Room rates: Doubles, $244 to 284 weekdays and $169 to $209 weekends.
 
 AMERICAN CLUB, Highland Drive, Kohler, (920) 457-8000. Built in 1918 to house immigrant workers at the Kohler plumbing-fixture works, this rambling red-brick building has been transformed into a quiet, tasteful resort with courtyard gardens, good food, two Pete Dye golf courses, indoor tennis, trout fishing, pheasant hunting and cross-country skiing. An hour from Milwaukee. Doubles, $155 to $190 weekdays and $185 to $220 weekends.
 
Where to Eat
 
 BARTOLOTTA'S, 7616 West State Street, (414) 771-7910. A plain, vibrant, yellow-walled room hung with family photos, this trattoria has good blood lines. Paul Bartolotta runs Spiaggia, Chicago's best Italian restaurant; here, his sister, Maria, a onetime vocalist with Peter Duchin, dispenses Italian comfort food: pasta quills with duck ragu, sausage and peppers on polenta.
 
 JOHN ERNST, 600 East Ogden Avenue, (414) 273-1878. Ratzch's has slipped; Mader's caters to tour buses. But Ernst's (founded 1878) upholds German-American tradition with Teutonic tankards along the walls, mellow Pschorrbrau from Munich on tap and proper schnitzel, sauerbraten and bratwurst on the plate.
 
 LEON'S, 3131 South 27th Street, (414) 383-1784. Milwaukee dotes on old-fashioned frozen custard. Leon's is the drive-in shrine, turning out a dense, eggy, creamy freeze fully worthy of the state that calls itself America's Dairyland. Opened in 1942, this neon-clad spot inspired "Happy Days."
 
 EDDIE MARTINI'S, 8612 Watertown Plank Road, (414) 771-6680. A 1940's throwback ("steaks, chops, seafood," says the sign outside), Martini's is Milwaukee's restaurant du jour, jammed every night. Fine strips and porterhouses, sure, but also ono and ahi tuna from the Pacific, as well as walleye, the firm, sweet lake fish that has vanished from most menus because of dwindling supplies.
 
 SANFORD, 1547 North Jackson Street, (414) 276-9608. Sandy D'Amato is a cook of rare virtuosity who produces a different ethnic menu each night (Hungarian, Greek, Provencal . . .) as well as his regular fare. His wife, Angie, presides winningly over a dining room that was once his grandfather's and father's grocery store. The flavor combinations are spectacular: sweet figs, pungent pomegranate sauce, foie gras, squab; grilled shrimp, Thai basil oil, peppery curry noodles.
 
 THREE BROTHERS, 2414 South St. Clair Street, (414) 481-7530. Branko Radicevic can be as cranky as his Serbian brethren in Belgrade, but he runs a restaurant with very high standards. On simple Formica tables in an old Schlitz tavern, he serves succulent roast lamb and suckling pig, chicken paprikash and an amazing, discus-sized phyllo pie called burek, stuffed with spinach or cheese.
 
Attractions
 
 THE MILWAUKEE ART MUSEUM, 750 North Lincoln Memorial Drive, (414) 224-3200. More than 20,000 works from ancient to contemporary times. Through Jan. 3, "Covering History: Quilts in Wisconsin." Opening today, "Half Past Autumn: The Art of Gordon Parks," a retrospective of the 85-year-old artist and photojournalist (through Jan. 10). Hours: Sundays, noon to 5; Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays, noon to 9. Admission: $5; $3 for students and the elderly; children under 13 free.
 
 CITY HALL, 200 East Wells Street, (414) 286-2150. Built in 1895 by Henry C. Koch & Company. Open Mondays through Fridays, 8 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. Free tours for groups of at least 10, by appointment only; (414) 286-2266.
 
 NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY BUILDING, 720 East Wisconsin Avenue, (414) 271-1444. Completed in 1914 by Marshall and Fox of Chicago. Tours can be arranged, 9 to 11 A.M. and 1 to 3 P.M.; (414) 299-3252.
 
 WISCONSIN GAS COMPANY BUILDING, 626 East Wisconsin Avenue, (414) 385-7000. An Art Deco building completed in 1930 by Eschweiler & Eschweiler of Milwaukee. There are no scheduled tours. Visitors may enter during business hours, Mondays through Fridays, 8 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Its 21-foot neon illuminated flame on the roof changes colors according to coming weather conditions. Red means warmer weather ahead, gold signifies colder, and blue means no change. A flickering flame means precipitation, either rain or snow.
 
 MIDWEST EXPRESS CENTER, 400 West Wisconsin Avenue, (414) 908-6000. The convention center opened in July. Call ahead to schedule a tour.
 
 MILLER BREWING COMPANY, 4251 West State Street, (414) 931-2467 or 800 944-5483. Open Mondays through Saturdays 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Free tours Mondays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 3:30 P.M., take visitors through the brewhouse, where the first steps of beer making begin, and to the cave 62 feet underground that Fredrick Miller used for refrigeration from 1855 through 1906.
 
 MILWAUKEE SYMPHONY, Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, Uihlein Hall, 929 North Water Street, (800) 291-7605. This weekend, Richard Einhorn's "Voices of Light," conducted by Andrews Sill, accompanies Carl Dreyer's 1929 silent film "The Passion of Joan of Arc." tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 8 P.M. Tickets: $12 to $48. Anthony Halstead conducts the Milwaukee Symphony in a program of Vivaldi, Telemann and Handel, with the guitarist Manuel Barrueco, 7:30 P.M. on Nov. 27 and Nov. 29, and 8 P.M. on Nov. 28. Tickets: $12 to $48.
 
 FLORENTINE OPERA COMPANY, Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, Uihlein Hall, 929 North Water Street, (414) 273-7206. Resumes performances Feb. 5 through 7, with Lowell Liebermann's "Picture of Dorian Gray."
 
 MILWAUKEE BALLET, Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, Uihlein, 929 North Water Street, (414) 643-7677. "The Nutcracker" will be performed Dec. 12 through 30. Performance schedule varies; evening shows at 7:30 and matinees at 1:30 P.M. Tickets: $12.75 to $46.75.
 
 PABST THEATER, 144 East Wells Street. A new adaptation of "A Christmas Carol," by the Milwaukee Repertory, runs from Dec. 4 through 26. Tickets: $8.50 through $32; (414) 224-9490. "Vince," a Pabst production of a one-man show about Vincent Lombardi, opens Jan. 9; (414) 286-3663.
 
 MILWAUKEE REPERTORY, 108 East Wells Street, (414) 224-9490. At the Powerhouse Theater on the second floor, "Blues for an Alabama Sky," by Pearl Cleage, tonight at 8 P.M., tomorrow at 4:30 and 8:30 P.M. and Sunday at 2 P.M. Tickets: $10 to $32. "The Last Night of Ballyhoo," Dec. 2 to Jan. 3. At the Stiemke Theater on the first floor, "The Glass Menagerie," tonight at 8 P.M, tomorrow at 4:30 and 8:30 P.M. and Sunday at 2 P.M. Tickets: $17.50 to $25.
 
 FIRST STAGE MILWAUKEE, Marcus Center for the Performing Arts, Todd Wehr Theater, 929 North Water Street, (414) 273-7206. "The Dream Thief" by Robert Schenkkan, for young audiences, 8 and older. Today at 10 A.M. and noon; tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 3:30 P.M. Tickets: $7.25 to 14.75.
 
 S. C. JOHNSON COMPANY BUILDING, 1525 Howe Street, Racine, (414) 260-2154. Visitors need a reservation for the free 35-minute architectural tour, held Fridays at 9:15 and 11 A.M. and 1:15 P.M. and 3 P.M.
 
 WINGSPREAD HOUSE, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, 33 East Four Mile Road, Racine, (414) 681-3353. Free self-guided tours Mondays through Fridays from 9 A.M. to 4 P.M., when conferences are not in session. Call ahead.
 
Getting There
 
 NORTHWEST AIRLINES, (800) 225-2525. Two direct flights daily from La Guardia Airport, at 4 and 7:15 P.M., with a stop in Detroit. The 14-day round-trip advance fare with a Saturday stay-over is $222, including tax. Depending on availability, $449 round-trip fares can be booked at the last minute, but require a Saturday stay-over. Last-minute fares are $350 each way plus airport taxes.
 
 CONTINENTAL EXPRESS JETS, (800) 525-0280. Three direct flights daily from Newark Airport, at 8:50 A.M., 2:15 P.M. and 6:55 P.M. There are 18 different fares depending on availability and departure dates, from $212 round-trip with a 14-day advance reservation and Saturday stay-over, to $900 round-trip.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Downtown Milwaukee, on Lake Michigan, happily mixes the modern and traditional. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. E39); The pseudo-Flemish City Hall in Milwaukee, built in 1895, was de-signed in emulation of the guild halls in Belgium; The S. C. Johnson complex in Racine offers free architectural tours. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. E47)
 
Map of Milwaukee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); MIDWEST USA (58%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (97%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (64%); WISCONSIN GAS LLC (63%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE (WIS); UNITED STATES (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (93%); MIDWEST USA (58%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (97%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; GERMAN-AMERICANS LAKES (90%); BASEBALL (86%); BEER & ALE (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); WEATHER (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR CECIL WALTER HARDY BEATON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



509 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Partisan Dispute Over Plan To Reshape Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration and the Republican leadership in Congress say they are ready to take on the complex and politically sensitive job of reshaping the Social Security system for the next century.
Right now, however, they cannot agree on how to begin, much less on the substance of a deal. And their differences about how to attack the issue, and who should control the agenda, were on full display today at a hearing convened by the House Ways and Means Committee. 
 Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the committee, said President Clinton should make a detailed proposal for how to shore up Social Security for the looming retirement of the baby boom generation. Only with strong leadership by the President, Mr. Archer said, could Congress put aside its fear of the political consequences of revamping one of the nation's most successful and popular Government programs.
"If President Clinton believes he can get this done without his leadership or without a specific plan, I believe he will be making the biggest miscalculation of his Presidency," Mr. Archer said.
Just as only President Richard M. Nixon, a Republican, could visit China and move toward a normalization of relations, "you alone as a Democrat can change the course of Social Security," Mr. Archer said in an appeal to Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Archer also upbraided the Administration for rebuffing his request that Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin appear at the hearing and instead sending a lower-ranking official, David W. Wilcox, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for economic affairs. Mr. Rubin's failure to attend, Mr. Archer said, "begins the process on the wrong note."
White House officials bristled at Mr. Archer's implicit challenge to their political courage. But the White House stuck to its position that it would be counterproductive for the President to lay out a plan now, saying that anything labeled as a Clinton plan would inevitably draw partisan criticism and poison the debate before it really got going.
Instead, Administration officials want to develop a bipartisan negotiating process in the hope of drafting a proposal that could win support from both parties in Congress.
"It has been the President's judgment thus far that for us to put out a plan would not have been helpful and could have served to polarize the debate," Mr. Wilcox told the hearing. "He will continue to review on an ongoing basis whether proposing a specific plan would help move the process forward."
Mr. Clinton has been meeting regularly with his economic advisers in recent weeks to review the complex array of options for making sure that Social Security can weather the retirement of 76 million baby boomers, starting in a little more than a decade. Without any changes, the system will run short of the money to pay all promised benefits in 2031.
Two basic approaches are under consideration. One, favored by most but not all Democrats, would keep intact the system used since Social Security was created in 1935, under which current workers pay the benefits for current retirees through payroll taxes. The other, backed by most Republicans, would move toward a system in which workers would invest part of their payroll taxes in individual accounts to help pay for their own retirements.
So far, Administration officials said, Mr. Clinton has not settled on either approach or the dozens of variants. The Administration plans to see how much common ground there might be in a White House conference on the issue scheduled for Dec. 8 and 9, which will include a day of closed-door negotiations between members of both parties.
Mr. Archer's statements today seemed to reflect mounting Republican frustration with the way the President has controlled the Social Security debate so far.
Mr. Clinton's demand at the beginning of the year that Congress set aside Federal budget surpluses until Social Security has been fixed thwarted Republican tax-cutting efforts and gave Democrats a potent issue in the Congressional election campaigns. Yet the President has held himself above the fray as both Democrats and Republicans debated specific options that could have painful political repercussions.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



510 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Housing and Building Permits Climb

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Housing starts recorded their largest increase in 13 months during October, and building permits rose to their highest level in almost nine years, bolstered by low mortgage rates and improved weather in the southern United States.
The Commerce Department said today that housing starts rose 7.3 percent in October, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.695 million units. They had declined 2.6 percent in September. 
 Permits for new construction rose 9.9 percent in October, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.697 million, the highest since January 1990.
"Our markets throughout the country are very strong," said Andy Hannigan, president and chief operating officer of Centex Homes, a unit of the Centex Corporation, a large builder of homes.
Two other reports issued today indicated that other areas of the economy were slowing, however.
The Labor Department said the number of first-time jobless claims filed last week rose by 9,000, to a seasonally adjusted 332,000, the third consecutive weekly increase. The four-week moving average, which eliminates some of the volatility from the report, also rose to a four-month high, to a seasonally adjusted 317,000 claims.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, meantime, said its November index of regional manufacturing was the weakest in almost three years.
Those findings suggested that the housing gains might level off, analysts said. "Weakness in the factory sector will eventually cause consumer spending and home sales to slow," said Mark Vitner, an economist at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C.
Starts rose 14.5 percent in the South last month, to a 820,000-unit pace -- the highest level for that region since January 1986.
Starts rose 16.5 percent in the Northeast, to a 162,000-unit rate, and 10.7 percent in the Midwest, to a 352,000-unit pace. In the West, however, starts fell 11.1 percent, to a 361,000-unit pace.
The strong showing in the South followed a decline of almost 8 percent in September and of 3 percent in August as bad weather slowed construction.
Over all, starts on single-family homes rose 3 percent in October, to 1.286 million units at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Starts on multifamily homes increased 23.6 percent, to a 409,000-unit pace.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); PHM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (83%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (83%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (83%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); PULTEGROUP INC (83%); CENTEX CORP (70%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); BUILDING PERMITS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



511 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Fed Was Worried About Misinterpretation

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve decided to limit its interest rate cut on Sept. 29 to a quarter of a percentage point because it was worried that a bigger reduction might exaggerate its concerns about the risks of an economic slowdown, according to minutes of the deliberations released today.
But just more than two weeks later, the central bank cut rates again by another quarter of a point after its policy-setting committee decided during a conference call that conditions in the financial markets were deteriorating and that business confidence was eroding, the minutes said. 
 The decision to cut rates a second time on Oct. 15 was made despite continued concern among some members of the Federal Open Market Committee that the move would be interpreted in the markets as a signal that the central bank saw bad news on the horizon, according to the minutes.
"Some members were concerned that a policy move so soon after the late September action might be misread as indicative of a degree of concern about prospective developments in financial markets or the economic outlook that did not represent the committee's thinking," the minutes said. "However, the members generally concluded that the risk of adverse market reactions was worth taking and that the easing actions under consideration were more likely to help settle volatile financial markets and cushion the effects of more restrictive financial conditions on the ongoing expansion."
The Oct. 15 rate cut did prompt some speculation in the markets that the Fed was concerned about an undisclosed financial problem along the lines of the problems encountered this summer by Long-Term Capital Management L.P., a large investment fund. But no such problem emerged, and for the most part the Oct. 15 decision had the effect the Fed intended, helping to calm the markets.
The minutes show that the vote on Sept. 29 for the first of the interest rate moves was unanimous.
Though a rate cut "was warranted to provide some insurance against undesirably tight domestic financial conditions, many members saw the need for a cautious policy action," the minutes said. "A more sizable policy move at this point might convey an exaggerated impression of the committee's current thinking regarding the extent of downside risks in the economy."
No vote was taken during the conference call about the second rate decrease, which was enacted on Mr. Greenspan's authority.
The Fed cut rates a third time on Tuesday, reducing the Federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks by a quarter-point, to 4.75 percent, and the discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system by a quarter-point, to 4.5 percent. The minutes of Tuesday's meeting will be released on Dec. 24.
Although the vote to cut rates on Sept. 29 was unanimous, there was disagreement among the committee's 11 voting members about whether to adopt a formal bias toward further rate cuts, a signal that its next move would likely be another rate reduction. Although only a "small majority" of the committee's members favored a bias toward further cuts, the entire committee eventually went along.

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (79%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; INTEREST RATES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (76%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



512 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: MOVE TO CREATE WAR-CRIMES TRIBUNAL -- A Foreign Office official, Tony Lloyd, said that on Nov. 30 Britain will sign a treaty at the United Nations setting up an international war-crimes tribunal. The United States has opposed the treaty, saying it gives the new court too much prosecutorial power and leaves American troops and citizens vulnerable to potentially unfair prosecution. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: CRACKDOWN IN TAX HAVENS -- Home Secretary Jack Straw laid out a plan to crack down on tax-dodging and money-laundering in the multibillion-dollar offshore tax havens of the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. A retired Treasury official who helped draft the plan, Andrew Edwards, suggested that assets of the super-rich who were suspected of stacking up illegal gains and who could not account for their offshore wealth should be confiscated. (Agence France-Presse) 

RUSSIA: PRINTING AND PRIMAKOV -- Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov said in the eastern Siberian town of Khabarovsk that the ruble would become almost worthless if his Government tried to print its way out of its chronic cash crisis. In Moscow, other officials said that the Russian Government will have to live without a budget in the first quarter of 1999 because Mr. Primakov has yet to propose a budget to Parliament. (Agence France-Presse, AP)
 
BOSNIA: INQUIRY FOR BOSNIAN SERBS -- A report that Serbs used chemical weapons against Muslims fleeing the Bosnian safe area of Srebrenica in 1995 has prompted the group Human Rights Watch to call for an investigation, including a sampling of clothing from the 1,400 bodies exhumed from mass graves. Joost Hiltermann, author of the report, asserted that Serbs fired grenades containing BZ gas to confuse the Muslims after the enclave was overrun. (Reuters, Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
INDIA: DELHI-LAHORE BUS LINK -- Bus service between New Delhi and Lahore, Pakistan, is expected to begin next month after the two countries settle on fares and schedules, Indian officials said. The rival nations have not been linked by bus service for more than 30 years. Celia Dugger (NYT)
 
NORTH KOREA: TRACES OF PLUTONIUM -- American and South Korean scientists have found traces of plutonium in soil and water samples taken near North Korea's two suspected underground nuclear sites, the South Korean newspaper Joong Ang Ilbo reported. It quoted a military person as saying the United States and South Korea analyzed soil and water samples from Kumchang-ri and Yongbyon in the northwest region of North Korea. (Reuters)
 
THAILAND: SECURITY CONCERNS SHUT U.S. EMBASSY -- The United States Embassy in Bangkok will be closed for three days starting today because of security concerns, according to an embassy spokesman who declined to say whether there was a specific threat against the embassy. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: U.N. REBUKE APPROVED -- A United Nations committee has adopted a resolution rebuking Iran for executions without due process of law and for discrimination against women and religious minorities such as the Bahais. The resolution, approved by the General Assembly's social, humanitarian and cultural committee, expressed concern at executions, torture, arbitrary closure of publications and the absence of due process of law. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ZIMBABWE: ECONOMIC TALKS URGED -- President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe called for broad-based talks to resolve economic problems that have set off a wave of strikes and escalating violence. Mr. Mugabe has been blamed by labor unions and businessmen for a crisis that has seen inflation hit 35 percent and the Zimbabwe dollar plummet by more than 60 percent in a year. (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: CROSS-BORDER TRADE SURGE -- Mexico has edged out Japan to become the United States' second-largest trading partner, after Canada. Cross-border trade with Mexico in September amounted to $15.2 billion. American trade with Mexico, a partner in the North American Free Trade Agreement, grew 12 percent in the last year. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
CANADA: OPPOSITION TO AN EXECUTION -- The Foreign Ministry is trying to block the execution next month of a Canadian convicted of murder in Texas. Canada, which has no death penalty, will file a brief with the United States Supreme Court contending that Texas breached international conventions by not informing Joseph Stanley Faulder of his right to notify the Canadian Government after his arrest in 1975 for killing an elderly Texas woman. Anthony DePalma (NYT)
 
CUBA: CASE AGAINST CASTRO IS DENIED -- A Spanish magistrate, Ismael Moreno, declined to accept a suit filed on Nov. 5 by a Cuban exile group from Miami accusing President Fidel Castro of Cuba of genocide and terrorism. The ruling came from the same court that is pressing charges of genocide against Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator. (NYT)
 
GUATEMALA: HILLARY CLINTON'S VISIT -- Hillary Clinton on Thursday hailed Guatemala's search for peace after years of bloody civil war as an example for the world. Mrs. Clinton addressed Guatemala's Congress, ending a four-day tour of Central America, where she promised support for countries devastated by a hurricane. (Reuters)
 
COLOMBIA: 30 KILLED IN CLASH -- In Latin America's longest-running civil conflict, a clash between left-wing guerrillas and right-wing death squads has left at least 30 people dead in Uraba, an area of northwestern Colombia. Larry Rohter (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Maps

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); THAILAND (79%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); DELHI, INDIA (53%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); THAILAND (79%); ISLE OF MAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); DELHI, INDIA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TAX FRAUD (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (86%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (85%); GENOCIDE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); RELIGION (64%); WRITERS (63%); 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



513 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-German Pact for On-Line Trading

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: OMAHA, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The Ameritrade Holding Corporation and Deutsche Bank A.G., Germany's largest financial institution, have formed a joint venture to let their customers trade on line in European and United States securities markets.
With the agreement, Ameritrade's customers in the United States will be able to buy and sell about 200 German stocks and selected European shares through Deutsche Bank, while Deutsche Bank's on-line customers will be able to buy and sell stocks of all listed companies on Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange through Ameritrade. 
 The companies expect the service to begin operations in the first quarter of next year, said Neil Benedict, vice president for international development at Ameritrade, which is based in Omaha.
On-line trading, until recently centered in the United States, is beginning to spread to Europe, Asia and Australia as on-line brokers seek new markets and as global Internet use increases. Investors abroad are seeking ways to buy into a United States market that has posted 20 percent to 30 percent annual price appreciation since 1995. European economic and monetary union in January may also make it less cumbersome for United States investors to buy European stocks.
European monetary union means that all quotes will be in euros, while settlement will be made in United States dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (94%); DBK (FRA) (94%); DBK (BIT) (94%); DBETN (JSE) (94%); DBA (ASX) (94%); DB (NYSE) (94%); AMTD (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERITRADE HOLDINGS CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK AG (94%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERITRADE HOLDINGS CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS ONLINE TRADING (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); BONDS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



514 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Posts 14.94-Point Gain On Hopes for Rising Profits

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, led by demand for shares of Intel and MCI Worldcom on optimism that growing demand for personal computers and telecommunications will strengthen corporate profits.
"Personal computer demand is very strong, and Intel has given signals to Wall Street that the fourth quarter will be positive," said Henry Herrmann, president and chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 14.94 points, to 9,056.05. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.13, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,152.61. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,919.68.
Internet stocks slumped late in the day, surrendering spectacular gains. Netscape Communications closed 2 11/16 lower, at 36 9/16 , after rising as much as 6 during the session.
America Online fell 3/8, to 83 3/8, after gaining 6 1/4 earlier. Yahoo, an Internet search directory, fell 4 1/4, to 185 7/8, after jumping 8 1/4. Amazon.com , the top on-line bookseller, fell 10 3/4, to 153 1/4, after soaring 11 1/2.
Amazon.com is still up 78 percent since Oct. 8 and Yahoo 77 percent. The on-line auction company Ebay, down 3 3/4, to 143 3/4, yesterday, has quintupled since Oct. 8.
Intel, the world's largest computer-chip maker, rose 3, to 112 7/8. Intel rallied because many analysts and investors returning from the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas, Nev., were encouraged about what they heard from companies displaying products there.
Intel said last week that fourth-quarter sales would be better than expected amid strong demand from personal computer makers.
"The weakness in the chip business is over," said Jon Burnham, chief executive of Burnham Asset Management, which oversees $150 million. "You can't manufacture computers without them, so they'll always come back."
Some Internet-related stocks held their gains. MCI Worldcom, the second-largest United States long-distance phone company, rose 3 9/16 , to 58 7/8, after it said it would begin offering high-speed Internet connections to businesses and on-line services over regular telephone lines by early 1999, matching rivals' plans for similar data services.
The Dow average surrendered most of a 46-point gain after the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reported that business at regional factories contracted in November for a third straight month, a sign that United States manufacturers are still suffering the effects of the global economic slowdown.
Still, the Federal Reserve's cut in benchmark borrowing costs on Tuesday is likely to continue to buoy the market, investors said. "It's quite positive for stocks," said James Margard, senior equity strategist at Rainier Investment Management, which has $5 billion under management.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- United States bond prices rose yesterday, outpacing short-term Treasuries for a second day, after reports on housing and manufacturing gave mixed signals about the economy's strength and the outlook for another Federal Reserve interest rate cut.
Bond traders were encouraged by a report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank showing an unexpected drop in manufacturing this month. Yet a separate Government report said that new-home construction surged, indicating the housing market remains robust.
"The jury is still out on the slowing economy," said Patrick Retzer, who helps manage more than $3.1 billion at Heartland Advisors. "If we see signs of sluggishness, we can get a significant rally."
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 11/32 , to 100 8/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.23 percent, from 5.26 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Nov. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (95%); VZ (NYSE) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); WDR (NYSE) (72%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (95%); INTEL CORP (91%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (61%); AOL INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); BURNHAM ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (74%); AUCTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); BOOKSTORES (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



515 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Frenchglen Journal;
Old and New West Clash in Oregon

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: FRENCH GLEN, Ore.

 BODY:
In some ways, the high-desert region known as the Malheur has never had any problem attracting visitors.
Hundreds of thousands of them gather in the spring and fall along the Pacific Flyway, turning the sagebrush country of Oregon's Outback into a Serengeti of sorts, with an astounding collection of wildlife: songbirds, sandhill cranes, trumpeter swans, pelicans, bufflehead ducks, pronghorn antelopes and coyotes. 
 But as the name that French Canadian trappers gave the area suggests, many people have found the area less hospitable. Malheur (pronounced MAL-yur) means "misfortune" in French, and landmarks in the vast region -- Starvation Spring, Skull Creek, Lonesome Cliff, Deadman's Bedground -- evoke the decided lack of success of those who have sought to civilize the area.
Still, if this hamlet with a population of 9 has any future at all, it most likely lies in tourism. Situated in the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge and just up the road from the Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge, Frenchglen is surrounded by stark and striking terrain.
There is a problem, though, one with both comic and troubling undertones that evoke the tensions between the ranching-oriented economy of Frenchglen's past and the likely direction of its future. People here seem to have a hard time agreeing on whether and how to go about marketing the area, and on whom they want to come here.
The conflict is evident even within Frenchglen's tiny business community.
"He appeals to bait fishermen; we appeal to fly fishermen," said Missy Litchy, who has transformed the local general store into an upscale tourist shop and a bed and breakfast, in explaining her problems with Josh Warburton, who runs an R.V. park a few miles up the Steens Mountain Road. "He wanted to have a Coors Lite-sponsored hunting contest, and while I wouldn't say I'm adamantly opposed to hunting, I'm not really a hunter."
Besides, Mrs. Litchy added, "Coors Lite in general is not our demographic -- we sell dramatically more microbrews than Coors Lite."
Mr. Warburton, a retired district manager for the Federal Bureau of Land Management, proudly says there are no microbrews for sale at the R.V. park he calls the Steens Mountain Resort. He faults Mrs. Litchy for discontinuing the sale of useful things like canned goods, and turning instead to "curios and jewelry and all that kind of stuff."
"I think she's kind of got a historical museum kind of environment over there," Mr. Warburton said late in the afternoon the other day as the sun fell, casting soft colors in the desert sky. "I think a lot of the people who come and stay with her would rather not see ranchers at all."
Ranching is still an important activity in the area, although most people here agree that the industry is on a long, slow decline, in part because of successful lawsuits by conservationists who sought to remove cattle from Federal wildlife lands. They said the cattle were competing with antelope and other animals for forage. In log books at the refuges, many visitors have noted the change approvingly. "Looks better without the cows," one entry reads.
Some ranchers here will not set foot in Mrs. Litchey's store, the Mercantile, and unsettling conflicts have arisen in the last year that led the area's school board to cut off the water supply to the store and the longtime postmistress to move the post office out of the store and into a pink-and-white trailer down the street.
More tensions arose a few years ago over a scheduling conflict in which Mr. and Mrs. Litchy had a champagne brunch at the same time as Mr. Warburton's annual Labor Day pancake breakfast.
Tensions here are nowhere as pronounced as they were 101 years ago, when the rancher who founded Frenchglen took a fatal bullet in the forehead from an angry homesteader. But in a town of just nine people, those kinds of conflicts can wreak havoc with community good will.
"The place is changing, the types of tourists have changed," says Malena Konek, the postmistress, who is also from a ranching family. "I think they want to change the way we think and the way we live. They have less appreciation for the way of life here."
But Mrs. Litchy, who grew up in the Portland area and bought the store three years ago, says many of her customers have a profound regard for the area.
"They appreciate the wildlife, the astounding beauty," Mrs. Litchy said. "Some of the local people, they don't want tourists at all -- they abhor tourists, frankly. To them, the tourists that tend to come here are urban people by nature, and they see urban people as responsible for their plight in terms of environmental regulations, stream-quality regulations and so forth."
With only about 1 percent of Oregon's population living in the entire southeastern corner of the state, the Malheur may well have room to attract more tourists. The annual numbers of visitors counted by the Bureau of Land Management to the Steens Mountain area near here has remained steady, from 40,000 to 50,000, in most of the last dozen years.
John Ross, the manager of the eight-room Frenchglen Hotel, which was built in 1924, says the real issue is not so much in getting people interested in the spectacular beauty of the area, but in getting some of the local residents to view them in less threatening terms.
"A lot of it is that the ranchers are leery of tourists, mainly because they have this feeling that they might be hard-core environmentalists," Mr. Ross said. "That's their big fear. They feel that the tourists are coming here and they're all trying to figure out ways to get the cattle off the range."
The conflicts here, in many ways, are simply another example of the ongoing clash between the Old West and the New West. Catherine Fine, who has lived in or around French glen for nearly all of her 76 years, is friendly with just about everyone in town and with the 30 or so people who live in the "suburbs," the name jokingly given to the ranching and desert area in a roughly 40-mile radius around Frenchglen.
But Ms. Fine said: "There are cattle people, and then there is a different breed of people. And all I can say is, they really don't see the world the same way at all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The road to Frenchglen (population 9), a hamlet in Oregon's Outback, offers a glimpse of sagebrush country that may find its future in tourism. (Dean Guernsey for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Frenchglen, Ore.: Frenchglen, Ore., is in the heart of a remote area called the Malheur.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; FRENCHGLEN (ORE); MALHEUR NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE (ORE); HART MOUNTAIN NATIONAL ANTELOPE REFUGE (ORE); UNITED STATES (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); DESERTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); BIRDS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); HISTORY (75%); SPORT FISHING (73%); RESORTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (68%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MISSY LITCHY (86%); JOSH WARBURTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



516 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Citing Strike Threat, FDX Halts Plane Work

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The FDX Corporation canceled the conversion of four passenger aircraft into cargo planes because of a possible strike by pilots at its Federal Express division, its chief financial officer, Alan B. Graf, said today.
Fedex, the No. 1 overnight-delivery service, has also slowed the conversion of others, Mr. Graf said. He would not say how many planes were affected by the delays or how much longer the process would take. They are part of a 50-plane conversion order. 
 The 3,300-member Fedex Pilots Association is threatening to strike on Dec. 3 unless the two sides can agree on a contract with higher pay and improved schedules. Fedex and pilots' representatives met with the National Mediation Board in Washington this week but left without agreeing to restart talks.
Fedex has already spent "tens of millions" in its planning to deal with a potential strike, Mr. Graf said. Fedex expects a "substantial" revenue loss if pilots strike, as it will initially be able to charge only two-day delivery rates, which are lower than the overnight rates.
In a related development, the chairman of FDX, Frederick W. Smith, told pilots that the company was ready to move on "with or without you" if there was a strike during the holiday season.
Mr. Smith also said in a letter that potential fleet additions had been substantially reduced because of the union's actions.
"You will also find in the weeks to come, as the other employees deal with the consequences of your actions, there will be unwavering dedication to serving our customers and rebuilding Fedex in the future with or without you," he said in the letter dated Tuesday.
Neither the union nor the company commented on Mr. Smith's letter. News of Mr. Smith's letter was reported in today's Commercial Appeal of Memphis, where FDX is based.
Andrew Wellington, an analyst with Pzena Investment Management L.L.C., which holds 738,000 FDX shares, said: "Management has a lot of operational choices and less incentive to give in to pilots. If they relax some of their more demanding service offerings, such as weekend service, they will be able to get through the peak holiday season without any serious damage."
Fedex told customers yesterday in an E-mail that most business would not be hurt if pilots went on strike next month, though services like weekend pickups might be disrupted.
Shares of FDX fell 25 cents, to $58.8125.
The pilots, who make up about 2.4 percent of the FDX work force of 143,000, are negotiating their first labor contract with the company. The average pilot is paid $142,000 a year, the company said.
Fedex moves three million packages daily by air during the nonholiday season. The company said this week that it had doubled its credit line to $2 billion to pay for contingency plans if pilots strike, like additional air and truck service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (96%); PZN (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (96%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (96%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (86%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP; FDX CORP FEDEX CORP (96%); PZENA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (64%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP; FDX CORP NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); TENNESSEE, USA (86%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: DELIVERY SERVICES; STRIKES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (91%); STRIKES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); 

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



517 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PRESIDENT;
In Japan, Clinton Is Questioned On His Public and Private Acts

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 19

 BODY:
President Clinton arrived in Japan today to push its leaders for a plan to fix their battered economy. But in a town-hall-style discussion televised nationwide late tonight, he found himself pressed to justify his own policies on trade, land mines, and Iraq -- and to explain how he apologized to his wife and daughter for his affair with a former intern.
"I feel I would never be able to forgive my husband for doing that," said his brightly smiling questioner, who identified herself as an Osaka housewife and mother of two. 
 Mr. Clinton's lips compressed into a slight frown as the woman, whose image towered over him on a giant video screen, asked the question. But he began to smile, if tightly, as he replied that he had apologized to his family "in a direct and straightforward manner," and his smile broadened as he added that he believed they had forgiven him.
The woman, via a live video hookup from Osaka, smiled and repeatedly bowed as the President answered. "Let's change the topic now," the moderator suggested.
White House aides insisted that the President had expected such a question and was not distressed by it. But coming just hours before the House Judiciary Committee was to open its impeachment inquiry, the moment suggested that interest in his predicament remains more widespread than the White House likes to argue. Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, noted that only one of the 24 questions during the hour-long program dealt with the scandal. "You can twist this any way you want," he said.
Earlier, the President handled queries about whether he got good grades at school ("mostly") and why he could speak so easily before large audiences ("the microphone is your friend").
He adroitly navigated an inquiry about his favorite meal among "the dishes that your wife cooks," by saying that he adored chicken enchiladas, without specifying a chef. "I like sushi too," he added.
Mr. Clinton taped the forum this evening, for broadcast tonight. He was encircled by an audience of about 90 people, identified as housewives, professionals, university students, small-business owners and others. A few dozen more people participated from Osaka. The White House said the network, Tokyo Broadcasting Systems, picked the audience and the questions.
Mr. Clinton, who met with the Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko today before a dinner in his honor, hoped to use the forum to explain directly to the Japanese people why he is urging their government to open its markets and stimulate consumer demand, Administration officials said. Seven questions gave him a chance to do that.
As Mr. Clinton noted the rising American trade deficit with Japan, he seemed to suggest that some Japanese industries were engaging in dumping, selling goods in foreign markets at prices below cost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9401 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (54%); WHITE HOUSE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ETHICS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TRENDS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



518 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: While Boston Points Fingers, Hartford Claps Hands in Glee;
The 'Magic Dust' for Redevelopment

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Business owners answered their telephones with bold greetings today, boasting that they were in the home of the Hartford Patriots. News dealers at Old State House Square hawked souvenir issues of the local paper with headlines worthy of a war or a Presidential election.
Civic leaders predicted a renaissance for a downtown that already had planned new museums, a community college and thousands of hotel rooms and apartments. And sports fans signed onto the Internet to order tickets for the National Football League season of 2001, when the Boston-area franchise is expected to move 100 miles west. 
Even in a gray drizzle, today's announcement brought a spring to Hartford's dragging step, a straightening of its collective shoulders. "This is an enormous compliment to the city's potential," said Evan S. Dobelle, the president of Trinity College here and a dynamic force in the city's redevelopment efforts. "It is immeasurably helpful, not even quantifiable. This will lift all boats."
At ZuZu's coffee bar, near the Civic Center that not too long ago lost its National Hockey League team, Dean Zappalorti predicted that the Patriots would attract young professionals looking to settle in a small, vibrant city. "It's a great building block," said Mr. Zappalorti, who sells advertising for the Rangers' minor league club, which replaced the N.H.L. Whalers.
At Old Town Cafe in suburban Wethersfield, where "Monday Night Football" draws standing-room-only crowds, Tom Tigno, a retired firefighter, hoped for more restaurants, small businesses and employment downtown. "It's dead right now," he said. "We need a shot in the arm."
And at Timothy's Restaurant, where sprouts and nine-grain bread are popular with the Trinity College crowd, Marsha Kelly, a retired schoolteacher, looked forward to increased foot traffic, energy and maybe even a movie theater or two. "It's unfortunate it takes a sports team to do it," she said. "But anything that brings people."
Once, Hartford's proud men and women worked in factories that built bicycles, sewing machines, typewriters and rifles and relaxed in parks built by Frederick Law Olmsted and museums endowed by J. P Morgan. That glorious infrastructure remains in the compact downtown. But in recent years Connecticut's capital has been better known for a collapsed manufacturing base, a downsized insurance industry and a middle class that fled to the suburbs.
A professional football team alone is no panacea for urban decay, as other cities have learned, but Hartford sees the Patriots as part of a broad redevelopment scheme. Plans were already in the works for a convention center, hotel and riverfront esplanade at a site known as Adriaen's Landing, just blocks from the gold-domed Capitol. The project, according to Mr. Dobelle, a member of the redevelopment task force, will include two new museums, a community college, 1,500 hotel rooms and 1,000 apartments. The arrival of the Patriots, assuming N.F.L. and legislative approval, would add other elements: the team's executive offices, perhaps a soccer franchise, and good fortune for the University of Connecticut football team, which would move up a division in collegiate play.
"This is the magic dust," Mr. Dobelle said.
Not that everyone here is a believer. Two government workers lunching at Timothy's complained that Hartford needed new schools, low-income housing and community services more than it needed football. "Tell me how it's going to help the poor," Joan Parker demanded.
And Jack Strasser, at the Old Town Cafe, worried that thousands of poor people would be displaced from neighboring housing projects. He also wondered if Gov. John G. Rowland, who roared to re-election, was motivated by ambition for national political office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (54%); OLD TOWN MILL (54%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (52%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (52%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); DALLAS STARS (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); DALLAS STARS (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); HARTFORD WHALERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); FOXBORO (MASS); UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SPORTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); RELOCATIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); ICE HOCKEY (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); SUBURBS (69%); TRENDS (67%); WOMEN WORKERS (65%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE EVAN S DOBELLE (70%); DEAN ZAPPALORTI (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



519 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
All the Questions Regarding the Lockout Lead Back to Money

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
The National Basketball Association's labor dispute entered its 143d day today. While the league and the players union have broken their two-week stalemate and will meet in Manhattan today for a bargaining session, more than 120 games have already been lost. The earliest the season can start is the third week of December. Players' salary losses will soon top $300 million, and the owners' losses, through gate revenue and local television rights alone, are in the tens of millions of dollars.
But if you ever wonder why Patrick Ewing is spending more time on his cellular phone outside a law office than on the court at Madison Square Garden, here is a basic, question-and-answer session about what they are fighting for and why. 
 Q. Is the season really in jeopardy?
 
 A. Perhaps surprisingly to both sides, it actually is. Because a month of preparation is needed for training camp and a free-agent signing period, the earliest the season could start if a deal was struck by Monday is Dec. 22. That would leave each team with fewer than 60 regular-season games. If an agreement is not reached by the second week of December, the league would be toying with less than a 50-game season -- a prospect that could force the owners to declare the season lost.
 
 Q. What's really holding up the start of the season? Money?
 
 A. Yes. Money, money, money. The N.B.A. last season took in roughly $2 billion in revenue, including everything from television broadcasting rights to gate receipts to the sale of merchandise. When you add up the salaries paid to players, from Michael Jordan's $33 million to Rex Chapman's $272,500, the league's players reaped 57.1 percent of that $2 billion. The owners, some of whom are claiming economic hardship because of the salaries, want a bigger take of the $2 billion. In simplest terms, the lockout continues because the two sides cannot agree on what is a fair split.
 
 Q. Everyone is saying no one is getting anywhere in these negotiations. Has there been progress?
 
 A. Actually, there has been significant movement on both sides toward managing the growth of salaries. Still, each side has a preferred way of achieving that end.
 
 The players have proposed taxing teams that sign players to the most lucrative contracts. The taxes would then be distributed to teams around the league that are struggling financially. Right now, the players are insisting that the tax apply only to players making more than $15 million a year.
 
 The owners, saying that such a tax would apply only to a handful of players, have laid out a complicated plan for imposing specific limits on salaries. They want to hold even the league's best players to salaries of between roughly $8 million and $12 million. Teams who currently have players earning more than the $12 million would be allowed to continuing paying those players at those rates until they retired.
 
 Both sides have also agreed that if either or both of their preferred plans fail to sufficiently contain salary growth, they would try another plan.
 
 Under that scheme, a certain percentage of all player salaries would be put aside at the beginning of the season. If by the end of the season total salaries had made up too big a slice of the N.B.A.'s revenues, the money that had been initially set aside would be returned to the owners.
 
 Major disagreement still exists on when such a payback mechanism would be triggered and how much money would ultimately be given back to the owners. The players do not want it to be triggered until their salaries have reached 60 percent of overall revenues; the owners want the triggering figure to be 50 percent of revenues.
 
 Q. Is that the only money question?
 
 A. No.
 
 While both sides agree there is a need to reduce the gap between the money paid to the league's superstars and the money paid to its role players and journeymen, they each have different ideas for remedying the problem.
 
 Right now, the league's minimum salary is $272,500. The owners want to set the baseline salary at $250,000, with provisions for it to increase during the course of the bargaining agreement. In the third year of the agreement, the minimum salary would be $350,000 for a player with less than six years' experience and would increase by $50,000 for each additional year of experience. A player with 10 years of experience -- say Tyrone Corbin, who earned the $272,500 minimum last season for Atlanta -- could not be paid less than $1 million.
 
 The players want substantially more -- a $500,000 minimum salary, plus $100,000 for each additional year of experience above five.
 
 They also want to alter another special provision that exists in the league.
 
 Currently, a team can, no more than once every two years, exceed the salary cap in order to sign one player. That player -- Rick Fox was signed by the Lakers last year under this provision -- cannot earn more than $1 million. The players want that figure increased to whatever was the average salary paid to players the previous season. Last season the average salary was $2.6 million. The owners are proposing a less dramatic increase for such players.
 
 Q. That's all, right?
 
 A. Not quite.
 
 The owners and players are also trying to come to an agreement on how to treat the salaries paid to rookies and younger players. Both are concerned about problems made clear in Minnesota's dealings with Kevin Garnett, the 21-year-old forward who last season signed a $126 million deal after just his second season. As well, Denver last season found itself forced to trade Antonio McDyess because it could not afford to meet his coming salary demands. McDyess had played only two full seasons for the Nuggets.
 
 The owners, who are unhappy with the fact that players can now gain unrestricted free agency after only three years in the league, have proposed a plan under which a team would be better able to hang on to a young, promising player for as long as five years. Teams would retain an option to keep a player for a fourth year or let him go, as well as be able to match any offer from another team going into the player's fifth year.
 
 For their part, the players have made a concession. They have told the owners they would agree to one of two options: the team would either have to commit to keeping a player for a guaranteed fourth year at a set salary or simply be allowed to match any offer from another team after the player's third year.
 
 Q. How long a deal is being discussed here? And is there anything to say that another season, sometime soon, will not be compromised by further labor disputes?
 
 A. The players have proposed a deal that would last five years, while the owners have proposed a plan that would last six years with an option for a seventh year. Neither side has discussed the inclusion of an escape clause that would allow for an early revisiting of the agreement, and so any deal should mean at least five years of labor peace.
 
 Q. Who is likely to crack, and why?
 
 A. The obvious answer would be the players, who will lose an estimated $1.1 billion in salaries if the season is killed. Tim Legler, the Washington Wizards guard, became the first player to publicly criticize the union, yesterday in The Washington Post. He said the only interests being served were those of the most high-salaried superstars. While Legler backed off his comments yesterday and said that the owners were to blame for the labor problems, there is a feeling of frustration building among the players. But much of that frustration is targeted at the owners.
 
 So far, in fact, the union appears to have held the players in line. Knowing many of the league's owners made their money outside of the N.B.A., players have little compassion for teams who claim to have finished in the red last season. They do not care that an apathetic public has generalized them as greedy.
 
 The owners appear just as firm. Four years after a World Series was lost to labor strife, most owners believe Major League Baseball is destroying itself economically. Throw in the National Hockey League's Pittsburgh Penguins recently filing for bankruptcy, and some of the worst fears are beginning to surface for small-market teams. In spite of the N.B.A.'s economic boom, which has produced new arenas and unprecedented revenue, the owners feel like befuddled executives at MGM Studios in the 1950's; the stars, they feel, are slowly killing their cash cow.
 
 Q. Will Michael Jordan play, and why?
 
 A. Yes, maybe just to get the last word in on Abe Pollin. The owner of the Wizards and Jordan clashed behind closed doors several weeks ago. If nothing else, Jordan probably wants to detonate for 60 points against Pollin's team.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last Wednesday, Billy Hunter, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, said the union had no desire to lose the season. (Thomas Dallas for The New York Times); Commissioner David Stern remains supported by N.B.A. owners, who seem resolved to cancel the season if a settlement cannot be reached. Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (93%); LOCKOUTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



520 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Fleet Reported About to Buy Unit of Sanwa

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
The Sanwa Bank Ltd., a Japanese financial giant mired in billions of dollars in bad loans, will in the next week announce the sale of a large American lending unit to the Fleet Financial Group for about $700 million, executives close to the talks said yesterday.
The sale price is significantly less than the $2 billion that Sanwa originally sought for the unit, Sanwa Business Credit, and is a measure of how much the merger environment has cooled in recent months. The sale also reflects how Japanese banks, dangerously weakened, are continuing to withdraw from the United States market. 
Fleet, a Boston concern that is the ninth-largest bank in the country, and Sanwa, which is based in Osaka, both declined to comment on the transaction.
Sanwa and the Daiwa Bank Ltd., another large Japanese institution, said yesterday that they would both post losses this year and together need about $7.4 billion in financial aid from the Japanese Government to avoid collapsing.
The announcements were the first in what is expected to be a series of similar statements by Japanese banks confronting a stalled economy and huge piles of nonperforming loans.
Japan is in the middle of its most severe recession in decades, which is likely to make it even harder for Japanese businesses, already short of cash, to repay loans -- making the outlook for Japanese banks even bleaker.
Sanwa, which said it needed about $5 billion in Government aid, said it would report an annual loss this year around $4.2 billion and write off $6.6 billion in bad loans -- enormous amounts that would be difficult for a bank of almost any size to absorb. Daiwa, Japan's 12th-largest bank, is seeking $2.4 billion in Government aid and said it expects to report a loss of $1.5 billion this year.
Sanwa's and Daiwa's financial problems are part of a swift and humbling comedown for most Japanese banks, which several years ago wielded such financial might that many here raised alarms over what they saw as Japan's economic colonization of America.
It is now clear that the lending and buying spree that Japanese banks and businesses engaged in was part of a speculative bubble that has long since burst. Japan, its critics argue, has prolonged the economic pain by refusing to tackle its banking problem aggressively.
Troubles at home have only exacerbated the problems Japanese banks face doing business in this country. The Japanese need to borrow from other banks to help finance loans here because they have limited deposit bases they can tap. But Japanese banks have been forced to pay higher interest rates to borrow -- the so-called Japanese premium -- because of their weakening positions and lower credit ratings. That has put a crimp on their business activities here.
Sanwa is not the first Japanese bank to sell part of its American operation. Fuji Bank and Sumitomo Bank have also unloaded operations in the last year, as Japanese banks shuttered offices across the country.
Just yesterday, the huge Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi said it planned to sell $750 million of its $4.38 billion majority stake in the Unionbancal Corporation, which will help the money-losing Japanese bank raise cash. The sale will cut the Japanese bank's ownership in that bank to somewhere between 62 and 70 percent, from 82 percent.
Sanwa, which said it would cut its work force about 10 percent, or 1,300 people, over the next two years, said in July that it would close Sanwa Securities U.S.A., a dealer in securities issued by the United States Government.
In August, Tokyo barred Sanwa from selling mutual funds for a year due to charges that the bank bribed representatives of the Finance Ministry and the Bank of Japan for information about interest-rate changes and bank inspections.
Sanwa still has a presence here. Its biggest American unit, and its largest overseas subsidiary, is Sanwa Bank California. Sanwa has repeatedly said that the California unit, based in Los Angeles with about $8.4 billion in assets, is not for sale.
But Sanwa Business Credit, a Chicago company that specializes in lending to small and midsized businesses and has about $6.5 billion in assets, will soon be sold to Fleet, possibly as early as today. Analysts said the Chicago unit has many troubled loans on its books and the asking price for the company has come steadily down since it was first put on the block about two months ago.
Fleet has grown from its origins in Rhode Island through a series of acquisitions that have included the Bank of New England and Shawmut National. More recently, it has purchased the credit card business of the Advanta Corporation and Quick & Reilly, a discount stock brokerage firm. Even with those acquisitions, analysts believe, Fleet may still not be large enough to remain competitive with other leading American banks.
Sanwa's adviser in the transaction is Merrill Lynch & Company, and Fleet's adviser is Goldman, Sachs & Company.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: SANWA BANK LTD; SANWA BUSINESS CREDIT; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP; DAIWA BANK LTD BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); DAIWA BANK LTD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANWA BANK LTD; SANWA BUSINESS CREDIT; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP; DAIWA BANK LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MERGERS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



521 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Handshake on Deal to Move Patriots to Hartford

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 19

 BODY:
A team owner spurned at home and an eager Governor next door shook hands today, promising the New England Patriots a new home in downtown Hartford and infusing Connecticut's blighted capital with big-league cachet. Gov. John G. Rowland agreed to build a $350 million football stadium for the Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft, who said he felt the Massachusetts Legislature had been too stingy with him.
The deal has been under way behind the scenes for months but arrived with almost no public prelude, adding to the sense of unreality among Hartford officials, who have sought and lost so many smaller projects. About 200 of Hartford's business and government leaders packed into the stained-glass splendor of a ceremonial hall at the Connecticut Capitol, applauding with a sustained rhythm that sounded like rowdy fans when their team is first-and-goal. 
 "I can't tell you what it means to me to get that kind of warm reception from a community," Mr. Kraft said, in a pointed reference to political battles in Boston as he tried and failed to win a huge state subsidy for a new stadium near the Patriots' current home in Foxboro, Mass. That stadium, built 27 years ago, is considered to be inaccessible and unattractive and lacks many of the amenities of a modern park.
Today, Mr. Kraft joked that he had driven from Boston to Hartford in the same time it took him to get out of the parking lot at Foxboro Stadium. And later, he apologized for choking up as the crowd erupted in yet another wave of cheers. "You really overwhelmed me," he said.
The deal -- which would be financed by bonds and paid off through stadium revenues -- must be approved by the Connecticut Legislature. But leaders of both houses took the podium today to promise quick passage. As part of the 18-page agreement, Mr. Kraft said he would not negotiate with any other state between now and Dec. 31. Mr. Kraft was required to deposit $2 million in escrow, which he would forfeit if he began negotiations with another state.
If the state fails to pass the stadium proposal by Dec. 31, the $2 million, plus interest, is to be returned to Mr. Kraft.
Mr. Rowland, who has failed to close several other major deals he has championed publicly, said he insisted on the escrow payment and exclusive negotiating window in an effort to avoid being used as leverage in Mr. Kraft's negotiations with Massachusetts lawmakers.
Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts said he spoke with Mr. Kraft late Wednesday night, and said he did not see any way to prevent the move. "I believe the Patriots belong in Massachusetts," Mr. Cellucci said in an interview in New Orleans, where he is attending the Republican Governors Association meeting. "However, there was a difference of opinion in the Legislature on this point, and it appears that that difference is insurmountable."
The 68,000-seat stadium would be part of a $1 billion development on the Connecticut River that is to include a convention center, a hotel and sports stores. The site is now home to parking lots, blocky buildings and a steam plant.
The team, which has played in the Boston area since 1960, is scheduled to move to Hartford in the fall of 2001, and Mr. Kraft has committed to staying for 30 years. Twenty-four of the National Football League's 31 teams would have to approve any move by the Patriots.
The stadium is to include 125 to 150 luxury boxes and 6,000 club seats, and is envisioned as the centerpiece of Adriaen's Landing, a redevelopment project that was already planned near the intersection of Interstates 84 and 91.
The complex was to include a 35,000-seat stadium for the University of Connecticut. Under the deal announced today, UConn will play in the proposed stadium.
Mr. Rowland billed Mr. Kraft as "a partner" in Hartford's renewal. Under the agreement, the Patriots are to invest $75 million in downtown, including $50 million for a hotel for the convention center, $20 million for a retail and entertainment pavilion and $5 million for a fitness center. The team will move its headquarters to Hartford and, within one year of the stadium's opening, will move its practice field to Connecticut.
Mayor Michael P. Peters of Hartford hailed the team's plans, but said some people still had reservations about whether the city was being used to force the hand of Massachusetts lawmakers. "Two million dollars is nothing -- it doesn't lock anybody in," he said. "But I think Mr. Kraft is very sincere about coming here."
Despite the euphoria that greeted the news here, some experts were skeptical about the wisdom of abandoning Boston for the nation's 27th largest television market, 28th largest state and 37th largest metropolitan area.
Mark S. Rosentraub, a professor of public affairs at Indiana University who specializes in sports economics, said the plan posed "a grave risk" for Connecticut. He said many Connecticut residents were fans of the New York Giants, and he questioned how many current Patriots fans would drive from the Boston area year after year -- especially if some are bitter about the team's departure, or if the team or the economy slump. "Connecticut is too small, and already has split loyalties," he said. "It all rests on the Boston market accepting the move."
Several Democratic legislators also raised questions about the administration's projections for attendance and revenue. The revenue projections were based on the assumption that home games would be consistent sellouts. The Senate majority leader, George C. Jepsen, acknowledged that some members think "the numbers may not quite be there," but said the expected impact on the region would lead most members to support the proposal.
"An N.F.L. team is one of the very things that, overnight, will turn around the image of Hartford as a city in decline," he said.
The state would finance the stadium by selling bonds, which would be paid back through a 10 percent tax on tickets, snacks and parking revenue from the stadium. Although officials emphasized that taxes would not rise to finance the stadium, taxpayers could ultimately be liable if revenue fell short.
As the two men sat side by side behind a long table as if contemplating a peace treaty, Mr. Rowland signed first and then glanced back at the document after Mr. Kraft took his turn. "Just double-checking," Mr. Rowland said with a chuckle. Mr. Kraft handed him a football, autographed by the team.
Standing beside a color drawing of the proposed stadium, Mr. Rowland said that with today's announcement, the state would stop talking about redeveloping the worn core of Hartford and start doing it. "A state is defined by its capital city, and today we have a chance to define ourselves," Mr. Rowland said. "Twenty-four million people per year drive by and drive through Hartford. The idea here is to get some of them to stop. We want to be more than a mile marker between Boston and New York."
Mr. Kraft said he turned to Connecticut in frustration after years of unsuccessful effort to win the subsidies he wanted from the Massachusetts Legislature for a new stadium. He reached an agreement with the State Senate that would have required him to spend $200 million, with the state contributing $72 million. But House leaders would approve only $57 million, which Mr. Kraft said killed the deal.
"Massachusetts has had over 35 years to try to solve this problem and has been unable to do it," he said.
"Some of you might be uncomfortable with this move," he said. "We had no opportunity to solve our problem in the near term. If the city of Hartford and the people of this state had not gotten together and come up with this, our family would have to put this team up for sale."
He said that for viewers and fans, "nothing changes: the New England Patriots will be able to stay in this region -- please, God -- for the next 30 years, and we're going to bring a championship home."
He later said he was confident that he would retain many of his current fans, in part because 40 percent of the Patriots' season ticket holders live outside Massachusetts -- most of them in Rhode Island, Connecticut and the Albany area.
Boston television reporters trailed Mr. Kraft through the Capitol, asking him repeatedly if there were any way the team would remain in Boston. "We're not considering other options now," he said flatly. He noted that Connecticut had until the end of the year to begin implementing its part of the agreement. "If they do it," he said, "we're coming here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An artist's rendering of the proposed $350 million football stadium in Hartford for the New England Patriots. The development, on the Connecticut River, is also to include a convention center, a hotel and sports stores. Gov. John G. Rowland, left, and Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, announced a deal yesterday to build a stadium for the team in Hartford. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS; FINANCES STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); KRAFT, ROBERT K ROBERT K KRAFT (95%); JOHN G ROWLAND (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



522 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: While Boston Points Fingers, Hartford Claps Hands in Glee;
Failure of Political Leadership Is Seen

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:

In Boston, the saying goes, there are only three things that count: sports, politics and revenge. And the announcement today that the New England Patriots will leave suburban Boston to play in Hartford combines all three, revealing that underneath the sheen of its economic boom, Boston is often still a city of tribal neighborhoods and vendettas without strong leadership.
"Today is not our finest hour," said Chad Gifford, the chairman and chief executive of BankBoston, who is also the head of Boston's Chamber of Commerce and a close friend of the Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft. 
 "Boston is a great city, from our history to our cultural institutions to our geography by the water," Mr. Gifford said. "But there was a good opportunity here for the city, and sometimes we are so proud, it verges on arrogance."
The loss of the Patriots to Hartford, 38 years after they played the first game in the old American Football League here against the Denver Broncos, is being blamed largely on one man, Thomas M. Finneran, the Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. Mr. Finneran seemed to make it a personal crusade to stop Mr. Kraft, whom he at one point referred to as a "whiny billionaire," from getting state financing to help build a new stadium in Foxboro, where the team now plays, even though Mr. Kraft had proposed putting up $200 million of his own money to pay the bulk of the cost.
Today, on WEEI-AM, a sports talk radio station, Mr. Finneran said he would not mind if his role in driving the Patriots out of Massachusetts was "chiseled on my gravestone." One caller to the radio station said Mr. Finneran's actions were "immoral."
But in the view of many sports fans, real estate developers and other politicians, there was enough blame to go around.
Former Gov. William F. Weld and the newly elected governor, Paul Cellucci, had both promised to help Mr. Kraft get the government financing to keep the team in Massachusetts. They failed. So, too, did Mayor Thomas M. Menino, who last year blocked a plan by Mr. Kraft to build a privately financed stadium in South Boston after opposition from neighborhood groups.
Mayor Menino said he was disappointed the Patriots were moving to Hartford, but he did not sound deeply troubled. "If it was the Red Sox, I'd be concerned," he said.
The Patriots have not played in Boston itself in years, Mr. Menino said, whereas the Red Sox play 81 games a year at Fenway Park and have a big impact on the city's restaurants and hotels.
The Red Sox are also trying to build a new ball park to replace Fenway, the smallest and next-to-oldest baseball stadium in the nation, but they too have so far been unable to come up with a plan that will satisfy neighborhood groups. Although Fenway Park remains one of the best places to watch a baseball game, it is simply too small and outdated to generate the revenues needed to compete with teams like the Yankees.
Football fans were despondent and rejected Mr. Kraft's contention that he was keeping the Patriots in New England, close enough for them to still go to games. "If it was going to be the Providence Patriots, I would view it differently," said Steve Doran, a marketing consultant in Hingham and a former season ticket holder. "But I think of Hartford as being a bedroom community for New York, Giants country. I don't even think of Connecticut as being part of New England."
Mr. Finneran did not return phone calls to his office today. But on WEEI radio he blamed Mr. Kraft's greed for the move. "Why are the owners of pro sports teams entitled to hundreds of millions of dollars?" he asked. "Entertainment is not a public responsibility."
But the State Senate President, Thomas F. Birmingham, like Mr. Finneran a Democrat, said he was "befuddled" by Mr. Finneran's position. Under Mr. Birmingham, the Senate last spring approved a bill, by a 36-to-1 vote, to provide $70 million in state money to improve roads and highway ramps as part of Mr. Kraft's plan to build a new stadium in Foxboro.
Mr. Finneran rejected that as too generous, and the bill failed in the House, even though Mr. Birmingham said the proposal was the "stingiest" government support in the nation for the construction of a new professional sports stadium.
The bottom line, Mr. Birmingham said, is that the Patriots contribute $10 million a year in payroll taxes to Massachusetts, and his bill would have involved an expenditure of $2.3 million a year in government money. Now the state will lose $7.7 million a year. "How can this be justified in the name of fiscal responsibility?" he asked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas M. Finneran, the Massachusetts House Speaker, called the Patriots' owner greedy. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); FOXBORO (MASS); UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS SPORTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; FINNERAN, THOMAS M (SPEAKER); KRAFT, ROBERT K ROBERT K KRAFT (93%); THOMAS M FINNERAN (91%); THOMAS M MENINO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



523 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Ability to Sell Luxury Seats Is Called Key To Success

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The New England Patriots' proposed move from the Boston area to the much smaller Hartford market could make the team much richer, but only if the team can sell out the luxury seating planned for a 68,000-seat stadium, stadium experts say.
The proposed $350 million stadium would have 125 to 150 luxury suites, and 6,000 club seats, which typically feature comfortable chairs and waiter service. Luxury suites typically cost $50,000 to $100,000 for a home season of eight league games and two exhibition games. Club seats can range from $1,000 to several thousand dollars a season. 
 But the Hartford market, which saw the Whalers hockey team leave last year for North Carolina, is the 27th largest in the country, with 915,770 households, according to Nielsen Media Research. The Boston market has nearly 2.2 million households. "That's an immense amount of luxury seating for that market to absorb," said Mark S. Rosentraub, director of the Center for Urban Policy and the Environment at Indiana University. "The real downside is if they can't sell it all and need an extra state subsidy."
A move to Hartford would add another National Football League team to the ranks of those that have moved to smaller markets in the 1990's, drawn by the lure of stadium leases that confer almost all the revenue upon the team. The Rams and Raiders left the Los Angeles area, the second largest market, for St. Louis, the No. 21 market, and Oakland, which is part of the No. 5 market, respectively. The Oilers were lured to Tennessee from Houston, the 11th largest market, and will start the 1999 season in a new stadium in Nashville, the No. 33 market.
And the Cleveland Browns' owner took the team from the 13th largest market to Baltimore, the 23d largest. The newly named Ravens play in a stadium paid for largely through state lottery proceeds.
The Raiders' return to Oakland has been fraught with difficulties in selling luxury seating and season tickets. But the other moves have been largely successful because they tapped into a fan base hungry for a first crack at pro football, like Nashville, or eager to get a team back, like Baltimore, whose Colts bolted for Indianapolis in 1984.
"Going to Hartford is really trading down," said Mr. Rosentraub, who added that a concern for the Patriots should be whether it can continue to tap into the corporate wealth of the Boston market for luxury seating while playing 85 miles away in Hartford.
Robert Kraft, the team's owner, said renters of the 35 luxury suites in the Patriots' stadium, in Foxboro, Mass., are scattered across the region. But the Hartford suites would be more plentiful and more expensive, requiring the team to draw a broader, wealthier clientele.
"The 25-mile radius around Hartford isn't that strong, but when you expand it to 75 miles it's better," said Marc Ganis, the president of SportsCorp Ltd., a Chicago-based consulting firm. "If they can tap into Fairfield County, with its Fortune 100 headquarters, to sell luxury suites and club seats, that would be a big plus. But it's a big challenge."
Mr. Kraft, who bought the Patriots nearly five years ago, declined to say whether he had received any guarantees to lease the luxury suites. But he said: "We think we'll be able to sell the luxury suites out before the stadium is finished. We've done the studies. We feel the location can support the stadium."
Dean Bonham, head of the Bonham Group, based in Denver, said: "You can have a $350 million stadium, 150 luxury boxes and a sweet lease, but if not enough people show up, you have a problem. I hope they're doing good market research on the fan base."
The proposed Patriots-Hartford deal is a wrinkle in the game of threats and cajolery that team owners play, pitting city against city for the best stadium deal. Mr. Kraft wanted to stay in his region -- he even wanted to use his own money to build a stadium in South Boston, which is rare among owners -- but got caught in the politicking in the Massachusetts Legislature and found a nicer reception in Connecticut. "If we couldn't solve this problem for New England, I'd have to put the team up for sale, which I didn't want to do," he said.
By being lured to Hartford with a plan that requires him to pay only 10 percent of gross revenues, Mr. Kraft could reap a windfall like those being received by teams in new stadiums, raising his stadium income to between $20 million and $30 million.
Mr. Bonham said that the Connecticut agreement could be the leverage Mr. Kraft needs to stay in Massachusetts. If Mr. Kraft tried to move elsewhere between now and Dec. 31, he would forfeit $2 million now in escrow. "The $2 million would be an inexpensive price for a deal in Massachusetts," Mr. Bonham said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (69%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); HARTFORD WHALERS (57%); HARTFORD WHALERS (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); ST LOUIS RAMS (54%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); HARTFORD WHALERS (57%); HARTFORD WHALERS (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); ST LOUIS RAMS (54%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); FOXBORO (MASS); UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); LOTTERIES (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD ROBERT KRAFT (87%); DEAN BONHAM (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



524 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Revving Up Japan

 BODY:
Of all the economic events of the 1990's, the decline of Japan's financial colossus was perhaps the least expected. A decade ago the Japanese appeared to be in command of the most successful economy in the world. Now, as President Clinton concludes his Tokyo visit, it is hard to be optimistic about the financial condition and future of the world's second-largest economy. 
 Japan has recently done much better at announcing economic repair plans than putting them into effect. The Government's $195 billion economic stimulus package -- including money that is to be given to people on condition that it be spent, not saved -- got a tepid reception in part because of doubts about details and whether the Government will follow through on its promises. Even if it does, more is likely to be needed. Structural reforms must be made to promote competition, and Japan's banking mess must be dealt with.
Japan continues to run big trade surpluses, and is a very rich economy. But wealth has not kept it out of a severe recession. Savings are high and consumer spending is low. Many of the problems stem from the bubble economy of the late 1980's, when stock and real estate prices soared beyond all reason. The collapse left Japanese financial institutions mired in bad debts that were long ignored.
Although the Government has set aside money for bank bailouts -- and two major banks yesterday said they would need more than $7 billion -- little has so far been accomplished. Japanese banks are reluctant to lend money except to the safest borrowers, producing a lethal combination of credit crunch and recession.
To be fair, Japan faces a difficult task in dealing with its banking system. The problem was caused by banks that lent too willingly. But the country's economic problems now are being exacerbated by the opposite problem as banks refuse to lend. Japan must close banks that are insolvent while providing additional capital to other banks to enable them to lend money to creditworthy companies. Unfortunately, the Japanese Government has yet to show it can accomplish that delicate balancing act.
Some economists argue that Japan is now in a liquidity trap, in which worried consumers hoard rather than spend any increase in the money supply. They say Japan must adopt a policy of promoting inflation so that consumers spend for fear that the yen they save will be worth less next year.
Such dire forecasts may be right, but it is also possible that bold action would make a difference. It is encouraging that Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, as part of a deal to bring an opposition party into his Government, agreed to consider tax cuts. It would also be wise for Japan to reduce its resistance to imports. An Asia-Pacific trade liberalization plan was scuttled by Japan's refusal to lower tariffs on fish and forest products. Such protection is one of the factors depressing domestic demand and slowing Japan's economy. As President Clinton said, "Nothing is more important to restore growth in Asia than efforts to restart Japan's economy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



525 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Warns Japan to Keep Its Markets Open to U.S. Goods

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Nov. 20

 BODY:
President Clinton warned Japan today that the United States might feel pressure to restrict some markets if the American trade deficit keeps rising and Japan continues to limit American imports.
He also suggested that a $195 billion package of tax cuts and new spending announced by the Government here on Monday might not be enough to revive Japan's economy. "The people here may conclude that even more must be done to jolt the economy back into growth," he said in a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce here. 
 Mr. Clinton said that as the Asian financial crisis spread he decided to do "everything we could to leave America's markets as open as possible," although he knew that lower-priced goods from Asia would cause the American trade deficit to grow.
But, he warned, "if there is a perception of unfair trade," public support in the United States for open markets could disappear. He cited as an example the surge this year in imports of Japanese steel, which has dismayed the American steel industry and unions.
"And if you put that against an inability to open more markets," he said, it will "create in our country the potential for a retrenchment here in a way that will not be good for Asia or Japan, or for the United States over the long run."
At the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation conference, held last weekend in Malaysia, efforts to proceed with economic liberalization in nine sectors collapsed in the face of Japan's refusal to open its timber and fishing markets out of deference to its powerful rural political constituencies. "We wish that they had been more forthcoming on all nine areas," Mr. Clinton said during his speech, his first direct reference to the dispute.
Aides to Mr. Clinton said he planned to deliver a similar message, if a softer one, in meetings later today with Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi.
As Mr. Clinton presses Japan to revive the economy, he is notably short of either carrots or sticks. He took a new tack today in suggesting that the American free-trade policy was in effect an act of generosity toward ailing Asian economies -- and could be reversed.
The President tried to present himself as reluctantly compelled to inform Japan of the risk of a change in American political sentiment, saying "I want this mostly to be a good-news speech."
And he said he understood that in every society there are certain industries that are "especially sensitive to trade-opening initiatives."
He said even wealthy societies "face a constant conflict between the desire to get the aggregate benefit of an open economy and the gnawing fear that it will not be possible to maintain the social contract in the face of global economics."
The Administration has so far reacted coolly to the Japanese Government's stimulus package. Suggesting a certain skepticism, the President said the speed with which it is carried out will determine whether it was successful. Citing the American experience with the collapse of its savings and loans, he said, "Delay in a crisis like this only makes matters worse."
He also called for vigorous enactment of Mr. Obuchi's plan for reforming Japan's banking system, which has suffered from an inbred network of weak loans that were often made for political and personal reasons, rather than for economic ones.
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (55%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



526 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
China's Love of Smoking May Lead It to Calamity
Scientists who calculated the devastating toll of cigarette smoking in China declared the country to be on the verge of an epidemic of smoking-related deaths that could ultimately result in the deaths of 1 in 3 men. A1
 
American tobacco companies see the potential for growth in China as cigarette sales threaten to decline precipitously in the United States, business analysts say. But the industry's plans are being thwarted by China's government monopoly. A16 

Israel to Begin Withdrawal
The Cabinet gave final clearance to the first of three pullbacks under the new peace plan, and Israel is to start transferring 200 square miles of the northern West Bank to Palestinian control today. A6
 
A Holocaust Archive in Berlin
The Jewish Museum in Berlin has begun talks with Steven Spielberg on housing his vast video history of the Holocaust, as the debate intensifies over how to recall Hitler's destruction of European Jewry in the emerging new center of Berlin. A9
 
New Coalition in Japan
The governing Liberal Democratic Party opted for political expedience and agreed to form a coalition Government with its archenemy, Ichiro Ozawa, and his Liberal Party. A18
 
Kosovo Cease-Fire Imperiled
NATO officials warned that a shaky cease-fire in Kosovo might soon dissolve, as tension appeared to be building again in the Serbian province. The United Nations Security Council urged the hastening of the deployment of an unarmed international force that is to monitor the cease-fire. A13
 
Clinton Warns Japan on Trade
President Clinton cautioned the Japanese that the United States might restrict its markets if Japan continued guarding against American exports. A15
 
Arms Supplies for Iraq
A network of outside help involving front companies and smugglers is being used by Iraq to supply centers around the country with parts for illegal weapons systems, arms control experts said. A3
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A20-31
 
Starr Defends His Report To a Bitterly Divided Panel
The independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr spent 12 hours before the House Judiciary Committee largely fighting off Democratic assaults on the conduct of his office and its investigation of President Clinton. Republicans praised Mr. Starr as he repeatedly sought to return attention to what he described as the President's pattern of obstruction of justice. Democrats challenged Mr. Starr's tactics and judgment, as well as the motives and fairness of the Republicans who control the committee, but they rarely defended Mr. Clinton. A1
 
Mr. Clinton's private lawyer, David E. Kendall, used the opportunity not to defend the President's actions or veracity but to attack Mr. Starr and his investigation. A1
 
Representative Robert L. Livingston said he wanted the Clinton impeachment inquiry to be over by the end of the year, before he becomes Speaker of the House in January. A28
 
President Clinton arrived in Japan to push its leaders for a plan to fix their battered economy. But in a televised town hall-style discussion he was pressed on a range of other issues, including how he dealt with the Lewinsky matter with his family. A27
 
U.S. Court Rejects Preferences
A three-judge Federal appellate panel struck down racial preferences at Boston Latin School, the city's most prestigious public high school. The ruling was the first by a Federal appeals court on affirmative action in public school admissions. A20
 
Disharmony on Social Security
Differences between the Clinton Administration and the Republican leadership in Congress over how to take on the complex and politically sensitive job of reshaping the Social Security system were on full display at a Congressional hearing. A22
 
Ban Sought on Vinyl Toys
Twelve consumer, environmental and religious organizations asked the Consumer Product Safety Commission to ban vinyl toys for small children, four days after Canadian officials advised parents of small children to throw away vinyl teethers and rattles, because of possible kidney and liver damage. A24
 
CBS to Show Kevorkian Tape
CBS News said "60 Minutes" would broadcast a videotape on Sunday showing a terminally ill patient dying after receiving a lethal dose of drugs from Dr. Jack Kevorkian. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
District Attorney Inquiry Of City Union Contract Vote
The Manhattan District Attorney is investigating allegations that officials at District Council 37, the umbrella group representing 120,000 New York City employees, committed extensive vote fraud in 1996 to win ratification of a widely criticized contract that included a two-year wage freeze, lawyers with knowledge of the investigation said. A1
 
Patriots Plan Move to Hartford
Gov. John G. Rowland and Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, announced an agreement to bring the N.F.L. team to Hartford. A1
 
Chaos Follows Teacher Strike
Several public schools in Jersey City degenerated into chaos when teachers went on strike, leaving the district's 32,000 students in the hands of principals and too few substitute teachers. School officials said eight students were arrested. B1
 
A Van Gogh Fetches $71 Million
A haunting van Gogh self-portrait from 1889 was sold at Christie's for $71.5 million, nearly three times its high estimate. It was the second highest price for a van Gogh at auction and the third highest price for any artwork ever sold at auction. B1
 
Museum Plan May Be Opposed
Preliminary plans by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum to build a large new branch on a Hudson River pier in a new shorefront park face major legal, political and community obstacles. B1
 
WEEKEND E1-38; E39-54
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Sosa Wins M.V.P. Award
Sammy Sosa, who hit 66 home runs and helped to lead the Chicago Cubs into the National League playoffs, was named the most valuable player in the league. D1
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
Alan J. Pakula
The director of many psychologically penetrating and celebrated films, including "All the President's Men" and "Sophie's Choice," was 70. B11
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Japanese Bank Sale Expected
Sanwa Bank, a Japanese giant mired in billions of dollars in bad loans, is expected to announce soon the sale of Sanwa Business Credit, a large American lending unit, to Fleet Financial Group for about $700 million, far less than the $2 billion Sanwa Bank initially sought. Sanwa and Daiwa Bank, another large Japanese bank, said they would both post losses and together needed about $7.4 billion in aid from the Japanese Government to avoid collapsing. C1
 
Taxing a New Technology
The Federal Government imposed a 5 percent fee on some of the money that commercial television broadcasters might someday generate from the new digital spectrum. C1
 
American Airlines Looks West
American Airlines said it had agreed to acquire Reno Air, a struggling, low-fare company, for $124 million in cash, a move that could help bolster American's presence in the West. C1
 
Reactor Sold at Auction
Entergy, a Southern utility company, was the winning buyer in the first multiple-bid auction of an American nuclear power plant, the 26-year-old Pilgrim reactor in Massachusetts. The price was $80 million. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: No new evidence; revving up Japan.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E52
 
Weather D4
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SMOKING (91%); GENOCIDE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ARMS TRADE (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); IMPEACHMENT (63%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



527 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley Will Build Glass Tower Near Times Sq.

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company signed a deal yesterday to build a million-square-foot office tower on Seventh Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, creating a pinstriped corporate campus in what was once the unlikeliest of locations: the Times Square area.
The planned 33-story glass skyscraper, tentatively named Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Plaza, would be the giant financial service company's third building at the northern end of the Times Square area, where peep shows and T-shirt shops have given way to new theaters, restaurants, hotels and MTV. The tower would rise on what is now a parking lot. 
 Morgan Stanley signed an agreement yesterday afternoon with the current landowner, the Rockefeller Group, after 11 months of on-again, off-again negotiations. Under the terms of the deal, the tower would be developed as a joint venture of Morgan Stanley and the Rockefeller Group, a subsidiary of the Mitsubishi Estate Company.
Designed by Kohn Pederson Fox, the new tower would be the latest element of a building boom that has swept through Times Square. The Planet Hollywood Hotel is under construction at the southwest corner of Broadway and 48th Street, along with movie theaters, theme restaurants and a Madame Tussaud's museum on 42d Street. Douglas Durst, the developer, is completing the first new office tower in Manhattan since 1992, on Broadway between 42d and 43d Streets.
Two other towers may soon loom over Times Square as well. Bertelsmann A.G. is inching closer to a deal to build a new home for Random House at Broadway and 45th Street and the newly combined Nasdaq and American Stock Exchange may build a headquarters and trading floor at 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas.
"Times Square has become a center for financial, legal and entertainment companies," said Peter Riguardi, executive vice president of Colliers ABR, a real estate broker that represented Morgan Stanley.
The new Morgan Stanley tower will sit across the street from the investment bank's building at 750 Seventh Avenue and only a block north of the company's 43-story headquarters at 1585 Broadway, between 47th and 48th Streets.
The design for the building is nearing the end of the city's land use review process, although Morgan Stanley may revise the plans and begin the process again. The tower would include retail stores at the base, an entrance to the subway, a plaza with a large reflecting pool and the kind of large neon signs required in the Times Square district. Morgan Stanley's headquarters is festooned with a three-line stock ticker.
Like many financial institutions, Morgan Stanley moved to midtown in the 1970's from lower Manhattan. In 1995, the company moved to two empty skyscrapers in Times Square with almost 6,000 employees. An additional 1,500 workers will move to the new tower when Morgan Stanley's lease at the McGraw-Hill Building at 1221 Avenue of the Americas expires in 2002.
"This project will insure that our firm continues to provide an unparalleled level of service to our clients," John J. Mack, president of Morgan Stanley, said in a statement last night.
In the last two years, Morgan Stanley has been joined by Disney and Viacom, as well as the Proskauer Rose law firm. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Conde Nast Publications are moving in next year.
The new Morgan Stanley tower, however, has been a long time in coming for the Rockefeller Group and Mitsubishi Estate, which lost a billion-dollar investment in the historic Rockefeller Center complex during the recession. The development company began buying the land for the project in the 1970's and gained approval for a skyscraper in 1990. But the real estate market soon plunged into a recession and in 1994 the site was turned into a parking lot.
The developer negotiated unsuccessfully with Bear, Stearns & Company and Guardian Life Insurance before opening talks in January with Morgan Stanley. The tower was originally envisioned as a sedate bookend to the Rockefeller Center complex. But the revised tower took its inspiration from the new vitality of the Times Square district to the south.
After negotiations between the two sides almost broke down in October, the Rockefeller Group opened talks with PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm that has been looking for a new home. But Morgan Stanley and the Rockefeller Group managed to put the deal back together and signed an agreement yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Map of midtown Manhattan showing location fo the new building site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (98%); 8802 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (69%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (69%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (69%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (69%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO; ROCKEFELLER GROUP DEVELOPMENT CORP; KOHN PEDERSEN FOX MORGAN STANLEY (98%); BERTELSMANN AG (82%); MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (69%); PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO; ROCKEFELLER GROUP DEVELOPMENT CORP; KOHN PEDERSEN FOX

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); FILM (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



528 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CUTTING 1,040 JOBS AT 3 OFFICES

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
The Occidental Petroleum Corporation is cutting 1,040 jobs, or 25 percent of the staff at its various headquarters, as part of a plan to reduce costs by $200 million by 2000. The cuts will affect the corporate headquarters in Los Angeles; oil and gas offices in Bakersfield, Calif., and its chemicals-business headquarters in Dallas. The company said yesterday that it had already cut 540 of the positions. Like other oil companies, Occidental has felt the pressure of depressed oil prices, which are down at least 25 percent from levels a year ago, and of a decline in the petrochemicals business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (95%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PETROCHEMICALS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



529 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
WITH DEMAND FOR TRACTORS DOWN, DEERE PLANS LAYOFFS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Deere & Company, the world's largest farm-equipment maker, said yesterday that it would lay off about 2,400 workers for several weeks because of weakening demand in North America. Most employees at the company's Waterloo Works tractor plant in Waterloo, Iowa, will be laid off for two to three weeks in December. The plant will also extend its traditional weeklong holiday shutdown for an extra two weeks, through Jan. 19. Deere, based in Moline, Ill., and its competitors are scaling back production as crop prices slump. Deere's shares rose 87.5 cents yesterday, to $39.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEERE & CO DEERE & CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEERE & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); IOWA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FARM EQUIPMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (92%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



530 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Minutes Show Concern Over Perception of Cuts
The Federal Reserve decided to limit its rate cut on Sept. 29 to a quarter of a percentage point because it was worried that a bigger reduction might exaggerate its concerns about the risks of an economic slowdown, according to minutes of the deliberations. 
 But just more than two weeks later, the central bank cut interest rates again by another quarter of a point between meetings despite continued concern among some members of the committee that the move would be interpreted as a signal that the central bank saw bad news on the horizon. C5.
 
Microsoft Accused of Lifting Prices
Microsoft has kept the price of personal computer software significantly higher than would be expected if the company faced real competition, an economic consultant testified at the software giant's antitrust trial. C2.
 
Livent Gets $5 Million in Loans
Some of Livent's wealthy board members came to the Broadway theater company's rescue, lending it $5 million, enough to keep the curtain up for 10 days. Meanwhile, the company's two founders, Garth H. Drabinsky, left, and Myron I. Gottlieb angrily disputed allegations made by Livent's new managers that the two men had engaged in a widespread corporate fraud. C6.
 
Asset-Management Unit Sold
Senior managers of Robertson Stephens Investment Management, the asset-management arm of the old Robertson, Stephens & Company, teamed up to buy the company from BankAmerica for an undisclosed price. C4.
 
Intel Demand Lifts Stock Market
Stocks rose, led by demand for Intel and MCI Worldcom. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 14.94 points, to 9,056.05. The S.& P. 500 rose 8.13 points, to 1,152.61, and the Nasdaq rose 22.24 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,919.68. In the bond market, prices rose as the yield on the 30-year Treasury fell to 5.23 percent. C8.
 
French authorities said the Paris stock exchange would join an alliance between London and Frankfurt that is seen as the precursor of a pan-European market. C6.
 
Entergy to Buy Nuclear Reactor
Entergy, a major utility company in the South, emerged as the winning buyer in the first multiple-bid auction for an American nuclear power plant, a 26-year-old reactor in Massachusetts that sold for $80 million in cash. C2.
 
American Airlines to Buy Reno Air
American Airlines agreed to acquire Reno Air for $124 million. The purchase, which would help bolster American's presence in the West, could be completed early next year. C2.
 
Starts of Housing Increase 7.3%
Housing starts recorded their largest increase in 13 months during October, and building permits rose to their highest level in almost nine years, bolstered by low mortgage rates. The Commerce Department said that housing starts rose 7.3 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.695 million units. C5.
 
Analysts Wary of Finance Vacancies
A company that goes for some time without a chief financial officer may be raising a red flag for investors. That is why some analysts have been looking warily at Electronic Data Systems and Nike. Market Place. C6.
 
Middle East Trade Discussions
Israel's chilly trade relationship with Jordan and the Palestinian Authority warmed slightly this week as the three held their first face-to-face discussions. C4.
 
China Thwarts Tobacco Companies
As cigarette sales threaten to decline precipitously in the United States, American tobacco companies are counting on China as a land of growth. But their plans are being thwarted by China's Government monopoly. A16.
 
China has begun efforts to comply with the coming American ban on imports containing untreated wood-packing material, a United States agricultural official said. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,056.05 up 14.94
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.23% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 119.99 yen down 1.66
 
Graph shows housing starts, seasonally adjusted, from May through Oct.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (66%); VZ (NYSE) (66%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); ETR (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (66%); EURONEXT PARIS SA (64%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); STEPHENS & CO INSURANCE SERVICES INC (54%); INTEL CORP (54%); ENTERGY CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); AIRLINES (84%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (84%); CONSTRUCTION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); AUCTIONS (69%); BOND MARKETS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); THEATER COMPANIES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1998



531 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN WEAKENS. A rally in Japan's currency faltered after Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa dashed some hope that the Government would cut a sales tax to stimulate the economy. The dollar rose to 120.30 yen from 119.99.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since June 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); 

PERSON: KIICHI MIYAZAWA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



532 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Ends Japan Trip With No Sign of Economic Progress

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 20

 BODY:
President Clinton and Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan ended two days of talk and ceremony here tonight with an affirmation of their national partnership but no evidence of progress on trade and other economic disputes that are festering between their countries.
While he appealed to the Japanese to have patience with Mr. Obuchi's plan to revive the economy, Mr. Clinton gave little sign of such patience himself or of optimism that the plan would be enough. 
 "Sometimes when you have to turn a country around it takes more than you think in the beginning," Mr. Clinton said, standing beside Mr. Obuchi to address reporters this evening. "I don't know."
Under pressure from the United States, Mr. Obuchi announced on Monday a $195 billion package of spending and tax cuts to increase investment and consumer demand. The markets shrugged, and in a meeting today with private economists here the most optimistic forecast for the Japanese economy heard by Clinton advisers was that it would shrink by only 1 percent next year.
Standing with Mr. Clinton, Mr. Obuchi predicted "positive growth" next year.
But Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers offered a dimmer view at a subsequent briefing. "The recognition that there is a risk of slow or negative growth is why there's a view that it may be necessary over time to do more," Mr. Summers said.
In the morning Mr. Clinton suggested that a surge in exports to the United States of certain types of Japanese steel might stem from illegal trade practices. He raised the issue in the afternoon in meetings with Mr. Obuchi but received no specific assurances from Mr. Obuchi that he would address the problem, Mr. Summers said.
Mr. Summers said that Mr. Clinton's concerns over steel "were very clearly heard" and that the Japanese showed an "awareness here of the importance of making sure that trade is by the rules in steel and other sectors."
In his unusually blunt speech, to the American Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Clinton warned of the possibility of "retaliatory protectionism," saying that protectionist sentiment could rise in the United States if its trade deficit continued to grow while Japan resisted opening its markets.
Japan has frustrated the Clinton Administration's hopes to liberalize trade this year in nine specific economic sectors, including timber and fishing. The President said today that he now hoped to achieve that goal next year.
The leaders also devoted 45 minutes to security, including what Mr. Clinton in his public remarks called "disturbing signs" in North Korea. The Administration, which has been criticized in the region as letting its policy on North Korea drift, is worried that North Korea may be preparing to build a plant for nuclear weapons at a vast new underground site, in violation of a 1994 agreement. The United States wants to inspect the site, but the North Koreans informed an American representative this week that they would grant such an inspection only in exchange for hundreds of millions of dollars.
Mr. Clinton said such conditions were "completely unacceptable." He said that North Korea's intentions remained mysterious and that it was unclear whether "they're attempting to get more money out of various countries for doing what they ought to be doing anyway or whether they really are moving toward a more hostile posture."
Mr. Clinton flew tonight to South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (92%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



533 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: The Opening Door Policy;
Latin America Leads Way in Emerging Markets' Revival

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The door to the global bond market has opened a crack, and Argentina and some Latin American companies are starting to slip through. Their success in borrowing money in the last few weeks is a sign that the financial crisis that seemed so severe in emerging markets and elsewhere just two months ago is easing.
This reservoir of needed cash had been all but closed to borrowers from emerging markets ever since Russia effectively defaulted on its debt in mid-August. With the heat of the world financial crisis turned up to white hot, investors were suddenly demanding a crippling 20 percent return for lending in these economically troubled nations. 
 Now the picture is changing. The Federal Reserve began to cut interest rates, and the International Monetary Fund revamped its rescue strategy, allowing the fund to offer assistance to a country before its economy plunged into deep trouble. And last week, the I.M.F., the United States and other countries agreed on a $42 billion plan to stabilize the Brazilian economy. If Brazil's economy collapsed, many economists have said, that would be sure to set off a far more serious worldwide economic crisis.
But investors, although willing to dip a toe in emerging markets once more, are still cautious about plunging back in, reflecting the sentiment the Federal Reserve expressed when it cut its interest rate target this week for the third time in less than two months. "Although conditions in the financial markets have settled down materially since mid-October, unusual strains remain," the Fed statement said. So investors are snapping up only those issues with special extras that make the risk more palatable.
"Investors have money to put to work in this market, but they still need bells and whistles to attract them," said Rachel Hines, managing director for Latin American capital markets at J. P. Morgan & Company, a lead manager on a $1 billion Argentine issue on Wednesday, which really pushed the door ajar.
Analysts are expressing the same caution about the stock markets in Latin America, Asia and elsewhere, which have done quite well lately. The Morgan Stanley Capital International overall index of emerging markets is up 28 percent since Sept. 10 in dollar terms. The Mexican market has bounced back 40 percent, Argentina 66 percent, and Hong Kong 54 percent. In Thailand, where the emerging markets collapse began in July 1997, the stock market is up 79 percent.
Those rallies have meant profits for those who went in near the bottom but only cut the huge losses for investors who did not get out in time. The Morgan Stanley index had dropped 59 percent from its high before the crisis began.
Gary Kleiman, the head of Kleiman International Consultants in Washington, said he thinks these are just traders' rallies and do not represent the return of money that will stay for the long haul. He is telling his clients to go in "only very selectively and only if they are prepared to go in and get out."
Robert J. Pelosky Jr., the global emerging markets strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, is also cautious, but in the "glass is half full" vein. "A two-week trip through Korea, Thailand, India and Hong Kong," he wrote in a recent report, "left me feeling that the big question is no longer survival, but how long before economies bottom. As such, it's time to gradually begin looking back at the region for opportunities."
The modest reopening of the bond market is probably even more important to the health of Latin American and Asian markets than the bounce of the stock markets. Countries and companies all across the globe are starved for capital. And if they do not get it, then a recoverywill be all that much more difficult. It was this fear of a shut-off of lending of all sorts -- and the potential economic collapse that would follow -- that prompted the Federal Reserve to begin cutting interest rates in September.
Although the recent surge in bond issues from new emerging markets is mostly from Argentina, the success of the issues holds broader significance, said Desmond Lachman, head of emerging markets economic research at the Salomon Smith Barney unit of Citigroup. "This does pave the way for more countries to come back into the market in the months ahead," he said.
The enhancements that have made these issues popular include guarantees of principal and interest payments, opportunities for the buyers to sell the bonds back to the issuer if prices fall and warrants that give the buyer the right to buy another bond in the future at a possibly advantageous price.
In addition, some corporate issuers are considering making their bonds attractive by tying the payment of principal and interest to future revenue. Some countries are also reopening bond issues, a move that investors like because, by increasing the pool, it makes it easier to trade those bonds.
The biggest new issue to date came on Wednesday, the day after the Fed cut rates in the United States. Argentina sold $1 billion of seven-year notes in a deal led by J. P. Morgan and Deutsche Bank. The bonus for investors was a warrant that gives them the opportunity to buy an existing 30-year Argentine bond at a price of $93.30 for each $100 on Dec. 4, 1999. The 30-year bond was priced at $85.50 on Wednesday but will rally if the global financial crisis abates further. By yesterday, the price had already jumped to more than $88.
According to Ms. Hines of J. P. Morgan, the issue was oversubscribed, with orders nearing $1.5 billion. The yield on the bond was 11 percent, 626 basis points -- or hundredths of a percentage point -- over the comparable seven-year United States Treasury note.
Among the other deals that have been done recently are a $200 million seven-year note by Banco Santander Chile that was insured by MBIA-Ambac International, a joint venture of two firms that have traditionally guaranteed municipal bond issues. The insurance gave the note a triple-A credit rating. Its yield was 6.585 percent, 210 basis points over comparable Treasuries.
YPF S.A., the Argentine oil company, sold $100 million in 30-year bonds on Nov. 4. The added attraction is that investors can sell the bond back to YPF after three years at face value.
On Thursday, Petroleos Mexicanos, the oil company also known as Pemex, was the first Mexican company to come back to the market since the Russian crisis. It sold $600 million of 10-year notes that can also be returned to the company after three years for their face value. And Pemex is considering a bond offer in which it will pledge its future oil revenues to pay off the principal and interest.
In late October and in November, the Argentine Government reopened two existing bond issues to raise $250 million and $300 million.
Joyce Chang, manager of emerging markets research at Merrill Lynch & Company, said there had also been some new issues in German marks. These were aimed at small groups of investors and could be handled at a slightly lower cost.
Before this spurt, the market was dead. According to Merrill Lynch, only $125 million of new Latin American debt was sold in September and just $250 million in October. Now, in November, new issues already total more than $1.4 billion. With the deals already in the pipeline, Ms. Chang is forecasting $3 billion for the month.
Outside Latin America, Ms. Chang said there was no new activity -- yet. But she said Asian borrowers could come back into this market if they chose to.
The revival in emerging markets has come hand in hand with an even bigger comeback in the markets for investment-grade corporate bonds and high-yield junk bonds. Both have seen a flurry of activity the last several weeks. "It is as if we woke up last week and nobody remembered what happened in September," said Tracy T. Eccles, a bond portfolio manager at Himco in Hartford. But she added, "If you are a portfolio manager and you don't buy now, you won't get that price appreciation."
Investors are tiptoeing back into emerging markets now that the huge premium that issuers had to pay at the height of the financial crisis has begun to shrink. In September, this premium, or spread, spiked as high as 17 percentage points over comparable United States Treasury securities, making the long-term interest rate on sovereign debt 22 percent.
That spread is down to around 10 points, but remains well above the 4.5 points it was from February into May and further above the 3.3-point low it hit just before the Asian crisis really began to hit the West in October 1997. Ms. Chang of Merrill Lynch said that Argentina, even with the enhancement it included in its newest issue, was paying about two percentage points more in interest than it was before.
The success of these issues, however, does not mean the door will stay open or is open for everyone. "Corporations, that is where the questions will be," Ms. Chang said. It is not clear yet how high a price they will have to pay to borrow.
Mr. Lachman of Salomon Smith Barney is worried about Russia, where he says the "outlook isn't very good" and new debt payments are coming due. And he is concerned that Brazil, whose economy is already slowing sharply, faces a "steep recession" next year. A recession would challenge the country's reform program, worry foreign investors and might "derail" the recent improvement in emerging markets. "So it is not a time to go big into emerging markets," he said.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
Banks Tighten Credit
 
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 (Reuters) -- Worry about the economy in the last three months caused a bigger proportion of banks to toughen their lending terms to businesses than at any time since 1990, the Federal Reserve said today.
"The survey results suggest a broad tightening of business lending practices," the periodic Fed survey of senior loan officers at 55 United States and foreign banks said.
The Fed has cited concern about credit availability in its decisions to lower interest rates three times in the last two months. It said more than a third of the American banks surveyed had reported tightening their standards for commercial and industrial loans to big companies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stock markets have partly rebounded throughout Asia and Latin America, encouraging traders like these in Sao Paulo, Brazil. (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: "It Takes Two to Tango"
Global lenders, after turning their backs on Latin American borrowers the last few months, are reviving some relationships in the region. Graph shows debt issued in Latin America, from Nov. 1997 through Nov. 1998. (Source: Merrill Lynch)
 
EMERGING MARKETS
Graph shows percentage change in the Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets free index in dollar terms since July 1, 1997, plotted daily through Thurs.
 
CLOSE: 302.278
+28%
FROM LOW SEPT. 10
 
THAILAND
Graph shows percentage change in the Thailand SET 50 stock index since July 1, 1997, plotted daily
CLOSE: 371.93
+79%
FROM LOW SEPT. 4
 
ARGENTINA
Graph shows percentage change in the Merval index since July 1, 1997, plotted daily
CLOSE: 501.33 +66%
FROM LOW SEPT. 10
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (96%); BRAZIL (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



534 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Delays in Indonesia

 BODY:
After 32 years of dictatorship under President Suharto, Indonesians are understandably eager for free elections. President B. J. Habibie must move faster in providing them, and avoid the Suharto-style repression he has flirted with in recent weeks.
Mr. Habibie, who was Mr. Suharto's protege, took over when his mentor was forced from power last May. He has made some limited steps toward democracy. But instead of seeking legitimacy through early elections, Mr. Habibie has stretched out what should have been a brief transition.
This month, students returned to the streets of Jakarta for the largest demonstrations since the fall of Mr. Suharto. They were protesting the slow pace of Mr. Habibie's transition timetable, his anemic efforts to recover money stolen by the Suharto family and the military's continued role in government. Unlike last May, the protests were not joined by the middle class. But they did draw support from the far more numerous, and desperate, urban poor. 
 Security forces overreacted, killing several students. Mr. Habibie seized on the violent crackdown as a pretext for interrogating several opposition political figures.
Mr. Habibie is pushing ahead with plans that would defer selection of the next president until the end of 1999. Even then, the choice would not be made by Indonesia's voters but by a partially elected assembly likely to include large numbers of military officers and government appointees. It will lack the legitimacy to carry out painful economic reforms or cope with popular protests.
Next week, Indonesia's Parliament will consider the army's future role in politics. Mr. Habibie and his political allies want the army to retain its hand in selecting presidents for 5 to 10 more years. That kind of military influence has no place in a democratic Indonesia. A quicker, cleaner transition to full civilian democracy is needed, and Washington should not be shy about saying so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; JAKARTA (INDONESIA); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); RIOTS (70%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO; HABIBIE, B J (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



535 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: A Literary Sherman in Pastels, Tom Wolfe Takes Atlanta

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 20

 BODY:
You might have the grandest house in all of Buckhead and the summer place on Sea Island and the biggest private jet and the ranch or two in Wyoming, every toy a man could possibly long for -- and yet your failure to make the roster of the Piedmont Driving Club would always be hanging over you, like a reproach.
 -- Tom Wolfe, in "A Man in Full."
 As if stepping into his own novel, there was Tom Wolfe on Thursday dining on herb-crusted salmon and baby carrots in the perfectly proportioned ballroom of Atlanta's Piedmont Driving Club, the magnolia blossom tint of the walls a perfect match for his creamy three-piece suit. 
 The club, which was founded 111 years ago so that Atlanta's aristocrats could show off their horse-drawn carriages, had invited the celebrated writer to lunch with its members, and 470 were now seated beneath two grand chandeliers.
They came despite their understanding that Mr. Wolfe's new novel, "A Man in Full" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), had pretty well skewered their club by using it as a metaphor for the social separation of the races in the capital of the New South. The home to countless debutante balls and Junior League follies, the Driving Club remains a place, both in fact and in Mr. Wolfe's fiction, where the only blacks in view usually are wearing waiters' uniforms.
Mr. Wolfe regaled the crowd with stories about how intrigued he had become with the club's history and architecture. And he recounted the night, which he molded into one of the book's most vivid scenes, when formally attired white partygoers stood on a terrace at the club and watched powerlessly as raucous black college students attending the Freaknik spring break weekend paralyzed traffic on Piedmont Road.
"I knew I had to make some literary capital out of this," Mr. Wolfe explained impishly, as the society matrons and managing partners who had been capitalized upon laughed approvingly.
And so it was all across Atlanta this week, as Mr. Wolfe made a three-day publicity tour of the city that serves as the primary setting for his novel about the feeble condition of American morality at the turn of the millennium. Despite the reviews characterizing Mr. Wolfe as a modern-day Sherman, Atlantans turned his visit into a citywide sensation that the amused author likened to the Beatles' first trip to America.
The 742-page book, which will make its debut atop The New York Times best-seller list on Sunday, has received such broad attention here that even those who have not cracked its binding offer ready critiques. Predictably, Mr. Wolfe's trip has also prompted one of the periodic bouts of introspection that afflict this famously image-obsessed city.
With his depictions of crass white developers and opportunistic black politicians, Mr. Wolfe lampoons both the casing and the core of a city that he likens to a baseball: a suburban shell of white economic might surrounding an inner-city nucleus of black political power.
In the course of explaining "the Atlanta way," the path of mutual benefit negotiated between black politics and white commerce, Mr. Wolfe also illuminates some dark corners of civic life. In his Atlanta, white corporate titans measure their worth in status and possessions, while black political success is determined by skin tone and walking-around money.
While many Atlanta readers have found Mr. Wolfe's descriptions and characters eerily recognizable, some fault him for simplifying the city's racial dynamic. Because Mr. Wolfe takes such pride in the journalistic foundations of his fiction, and because his details are so precise, many have had trouble remembering that the book is a novel. As a result, some feathers have been ruffled.
Several corporate sponsors and a number of guests backed out of a benefit on Wednesday night honoring Mr. Wolfe after reading the early publicity on the book.
"The sponsors backed out because they were afraid of being involved in anything that could be racially controversial," said Mary Rose Taylor, a longtime friend of Mr. Wolfe who organized the dinner. "And some guests felt if they attended the dinner they would appear to be endorsing the book, and they did not want to appear to be doing that."
Although he has not read the book, former Mayor Sam Massell, who heads a business group called the Buckhead Coalition, was so offended by what he had heard that he made a public show of rescinding a luncheon invitation from the group before Mr. Wolfe had even received it. Mr. Massell said he was put off by a passage describing how Charlie Croker, the book's developer protagonist, had manufactured a Ku Klux Klan rally to deflate the price of property he wanted to buy.
"I understand this is fiction and he has the right to do what he wants," said Mr. Massell, who was Mayor from 1970 to 1974. "But that doesn't mean I have to have lunch with him."
Asked whether he plans to read the book, Mr. Massell paused. "When I cool down," he said.
A number of prominent Atlantans said they were more offended by Mr. Massell's sense of public relations than by Mr. Wolfe's book. Sam A. Williams, the president of the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, called Mr. Massell's disinvitation "a little crass." Rick Beard, the director of the Atlanta History Center, said he kept hoping for a city "that has a little bit more self-confidence and cares a little bit less about what other people think of us."
Atlanta's Mayor, Bill Campbell, anticipated Mr. Wolfe's arrival on Wednesday by issuing a statement that pleaded for calm: "Given our achievements and history of racial harmony, there is no reason to overreact to a novel that explores several important issues, but like all literature, from the vantage point of the author."
Mr. Campbell, the city's third black Mayor, said in an interview that he was particularly pleased that the novel explored race relations, a topic that he said demanded more discussion. But when Mr. Campbell, who has yet to read the book, was told that a major theme involved the political tensions between light-skinned and dark-skinned blacks, the Mayor virtually denied that such an undercurrent even existed.
"As a reality, it's not an issue at all," he said, although it was a widely, if quietly, discussed subtext of Mr. Campbell's re-election in 1997. "Like the ebola plague, it's very deadly when it does rear its head, but it's very rare."
Despite mixed feelings about the book, much of Atlanta has been flattered by Mr. Wolfe's attention, and views the book's publication as an opportunity to demonstrate that the city has developed a thicker skin since it was host to the 1996 Summer Olympic Games. After all, did not Mr. Wolfe use his first novel, "The Bonfire of the Vanities," to send up New York City, the commercial and cultural capital of the world?
"We Atlantans are supposed to be sitting here in mortal terror that our pretensions are going to be held up to ridicule, when the truth is, everyone I know is tickled pink about this," said Frederick Allen, a local author and city historian. "To have someone of Tom Wolfe's stature hold you up to scorn is really the Good Housekeeping seal of approval. He wouldn't do this to Birmingham or Orlando."
Mr. Wolfe was welcomed at the airport on Wednesday with camera flashes, and a press contingent has trailed him this week like a Presidential candidate in the snows of New Hampshire. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution instituted a daily Wolfe Watch column, and dutifully reported what Mr. Wolfe ate and what his wife wore.
The crowd attending Mr. Wolfe's speech and reading at the Atlanta History Center on Wednesday night spilled out of the 400-seat auditorium and into a room where his address was shown on closed-circuit television. Later, some 150 Atlantans paid $600 apiece to attend the black-tie benefit honoring Mr. Wolfe who, alone among the guests, did not adhere to the dress code.
On Thursday, 200 people joined Mr. Wolfe at a breakfast sponsored by the Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau, which hopes that his book will do for Atlanta tourism what John Berendt's "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" (Random House, 1994) did for Savannah.
On Thursday night, an estimated 1,100 fans jammed Borders Books and Music in trendy Buckhead for a reading and signing, some waiting up to nine hours for Mr. Wolfe's arrival. Like eager children queued up to see a shopping-mall Santa, they snaked in lines throughout the expansive store as Mr. Wolfe scribbled his autograph from a thronelike stage. By the time he finished at 11:45 P.M., more than two hours later than scheduled, the 68-year-old Mr. Wolfe had signed about 2,000 books.
Mr. Wolfe, a Virginia native who lives in New York, takes note in "A Man in Full" of Atlanta's sensitivity to image, with one character saying Atlantans cannot stand "the idea that somebody in New York might be calling them Southern hicks." While here this week, he seemed eager to make amends for any slight, praising the city's ambition and optimism and telling his audiences that Atlanta just might become the next great international city. He also praised the city's manners and unfailing generosity, saying he was treated graciously in the dozen trips he made here to research the book.
"I've always loved courtesy in the South, even when it takes the form of hypocrisy," he told the crowd at breakfast on Thursday. "I can stand insults, so long as they're couched in courteous terms."
Perhaps after Mr. Wolfe's visit, Atlanta may discover that it feels the same way about him.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Wolfe, on a book tour in Atlanta this week, at the Four Seasons Hotel where he spoke to a crowd about his new book, "A Man in Full." Mr. Wolfe also read to a packed house at a Borders bookstore on Thursday, left. After the reading, Mr. Wolfe signed 2,000 books. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MAN IN FULL, A (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PIEDMONT DRIVING CLUB (ATLANTA, GA) FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%); PIEDMONT DRIVING CLUB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIEDMONT DRIVING CLUB (ATLANTA, GA) PIEDMONT DRIVING CLUB (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); BESTSELLERS (71%); CITY LIFE (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; WOLFE, TOM THOMAS KENNERLY 'TOM' WOLFE JR (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



536 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Questions The Placement Of City Pupils

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
The Federal Education Department's Office of Civil Rights has challenged Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew to show evidence that thousands of black and Hispanic students are being properly placed in special education programs, saying that a Federal analysis shows evidence of discrimination that Dr. Crew has failed to report or investigate.
The department's order comes 18 months after Dr. Crew agreed to Federal monitoring of his efforts to reduce the number of children consigned to special education classes in New York City public schools. Federal officials had raised questions about disproportionate referrals of black and Hispanic students into the classes, which are supposed to accommodate children with learning or behavioral problems, but usually end up as pathways to academic failure. Once placed in special education classes, children seldom return to regular classes or receive a diploma, even though the vast majority have only minor impairments, not severe handicaps. 
 In a letter sent to the Chancellor this month, Steven Pereira, chief attorney for the New York Office for Civil Rights, said that Federal analysts had found "anomalies and omissions" in data on special education placements submitted by Dr. Crew to the Federal Government.
For example, the analysis found that a third of the city's school districts sent unusually high numbers of children who spoke limited English into special education. In 11 of the 32 districts, more than 20 percent of the students whose native language is not English were in special education classes in the 1996-97 school year. Citywide, the study said, the rate was 8.2 percent of students with limited English and 4 percent for native English speakers.
The study did not do much analysis beyond the raw numbers to assess factors like learning ability or the economic status of families, which might contribute to a greater need for special education.
In nine districts, the study found that black students were more than twice as likely as white students to be referred to special education. What is more, black students were three times as likely as white students to be recommended for the most restrictive special education classes, from which they were least likely to be transferred back to the mainstream. Federal officials said that even among districts with the same rates of poverty, there were wide discrepancies in special education placements that appeared to be based on race or ethnicity.
In the letter to the Chancellor, Mr. Pereira said the data indicated that Dr. Crew and the Board of Education had not been aggressive enough in tracking how individual schools and school districts place children in special education. "None of these statistical anomalies were identified by the board as problematic, triggering further inquiry," the letter said. The Office of Civil Rights "is very concerned that the board is too narrowly defining what it considers to be inappropriately high rates of referral or restrictive special education placement, thereby limiting the necessity to intervene with schools or districts."
J. D. LaRock, a spokesman for the Chancellor, said that the Federal data were not up to date and that Dr. Crew was sending more recent data to the Office of Civil Rights that would show more progress in reducing special education placements.
"That problem doesn't get fixed overnight," Mr. LaRock said. "It should be pointed out that this does not reflect the latest data regarding referrals to special education."
Phil Coltoff, executive director of the Children's Aid Society, which has been tracking special education for years, said that children from impoverished families often did need extra support, and that these children tended to be black and Hispanic. The problem, he said, was that they were not necessarily getting it in special education.
Mr. Coltoff said that Dr. Crew had begun to put supports in some schools, including an extended school day and school year. "If these schools had more extensive mental health staff, guidance staff and clinics," Mr. Coltoff said, "a lot of those students would not have to go to special education."
Under the agreement with the Federal Government, the Board of Education must reduce the numbers of black and Hispanic students in special education or lose Federal aid -- about 10 percent of its $8 billion budget. The so-called memorandum of agreement, signed in May 1997, came after a two-year investigation of special education placements in New York City found that such programs had become warehouses for minority children.
The agreement was not based on any specific complaint from an advocacy group or from students or their parents. Rather, it was what Mr. Pereira called "a proactive effort" by the Office of Civil Rights to prevent racial and ethnic discrimination in special education programs.
Mr. LaRock pointed out that the Office of Civil Rights had not found New York City to be in violation of the agreement, and he characterized Mr. Pereira's letter as "routine correspondence" in a cooperative relationship. Mr. Pereira, in an interview, agreed that Dr. Crew had been cooperating with Federal officials.
In his letter, Mr. Pereira complained that Dr. Crew had provided little evidence that he had carried out plans to improve training for teachers, who often initiate placements for special education, and to inform parents of alternatives to special education. Although the board submitted a description of training sessions to the Office of Civil Rights in May, "many of the topics of the training seem extraneous to the goals" of the Federal agreement.
For instance, his letter said, the Board had reported that all 32 school districts had been given training in the prevention of teen-age suicide. But only one district was given training in putting special education students in regular classrooms, but giving them extra help.
The Federal report found that eight schools with extremely low reading and math scores had transferred large numbers of students into special education in 1996-97. The percentage of students moved ranged from 29 percent at Hostos Academy in East Harlem to a low of 13 percent at Public School 111 in Brooklyn. Five of the eight schools were on a state list of "schools under registration review," which are threatened with closing if they do not improve. The scores of special education students on standardized tests are not used to determine school rankings. So moving children into special education could sharply raise the overall scores of those schools.
Lucila Rodriguez, the director of Hostos Academy, where 21 percent of students were reading at grade level in 1996, declined comment yesterday on the Federal report.
The proportion of black students moved to special education in 1996-97 ranged from 2 percent in District 5, which is in Harlem, to 10 percent in District 21, in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn. Citywide, 3.8 percent of white students and 5 percent of black students were moved to special education that year.
The share of students with limited English who were placed in special education in 1996-97 ranged from a low of 2.6 percent in Harlem to 22 percent in District 31, which comprises Staten Island.
Using statistics from 1995-96, which Federal officials said were the latest available to them, the Office of Civil Rights found 11 districts in which more than 15 percent of black students were in special education. In two of those districts, District 1 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, and District 21, in Brooklyn, more than 20 percent of black students were in special education.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Race and Special Classes"
Percentages of black, Hispanic and white students in special classes in selected New York City districts.
 
Manhattan
 
District 1
BLACK: 20.5%
HISPANIC: 21.2
WHITE: *
 
District 3
BLACK: 16.0
HISPANIC: 15.6
WHITE: 7.0
 
District 5
BLACK: 10.7
HISPANIC: 10.7
WHITE: *
 
Bronx
 
District 7
BLACK: 16.7
HISPANIC: 15.6
WHITE: *
 
District 10
BLACK: 13.5
HISPANIC: 12.2
WHITE: 11.5
 
Brooklyn
 
BLACK: 17.4
HISPANIC: 13.2
WHITE: 8.0
 
District 15
BLACK: 17.1
HISPANIC: 12.5
WHITE: 8.3
 
District 17
BLACK: 7.9
HISPANIC: 9.5
WHITE: *
 
District 21
BLACK: 22.3
HISPANIC: 19.4
WHITE: 9.8
 
Queens
 
District 25
BLACK: 18.3
HISPANIC: 12.7
WHITE: 8.0
 
District 26
BLACK: 17.9
HISPANIC: 18.0
WHITE: 11.7
 
Staten Island
 
District 31
BLACK: 19.2
HISPANIC: 16.6
WHITE: 11.1
 
*Too few students to calculate a percentage.
(Source: Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Dept. of Education)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BLACKS SPECIAL EDUCATION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); POVERTY RATES (65%); 

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA; CREW, RUDY (CHANCELLOR) RUDY CREW (91%); STEVEN PEREIRA (60%); PHIL COLTOFF (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



537 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: The High Price of Happiness

 BODY:
When Gov. John Rowland ran for re-election, he promised to make the rejuvenation of Connecticut's cities a top priority for his second administration. Now the state has learned that Mr. Rowland was secretly negotiating to bring the New England Patriots to Hartford as the centerpiece of his urban development. This week the Governor and the Patriots' owner, Robert Kraft, stunned both Massachusetts and Connecticut by announcing a deal to move the football team into a new $350 million, publicly financed stadium. This is a story in which almost every position deserves to be regarded with both sympathy and a degree of skepticism.
Mr. Kraft agreed to move his team to Hartford after long and drawn-out negotiations to keep the Patriots in the Boston area fell through. It is impossible to feel much concern for Mr. Kraft, who was prospering in Massachusetts. But as team owners go, he did not seem to have been asking for very much to keep the team in its present location in Foxboro. The Massachusetts House Speaker, Thomas Finneran, who calls Mr. Kraft a "whiney millionaire," vetoed a deal that would have required the state to make about $70 million in infrastructure improvements in order to keep a team that generates $10 million a year in tax revenue. 
 The Boston area, which is booming, and which has three other sports teams closer to residents' hearts, does not really need the Patriots as a symbol of local solidarity and prestige. But Hartford has been mired in severe problems for years, including a disastrous school system, a half-deserted downtown and an image as a dangerous place that suburban residents prefer to shun.
It is hard to accept the idea that a football team ought to be a top priority for a city with so many needs. But the psychological jolt of grabbing big-league status might help to ignite a rebirth of the commercial district. The big question is whether Mr. Rowland is right in believing that a football team that plays only 10 regular and preseason games a year at home could be the catalyst that turns Hartford's fortunes around.
The stadium is supposed to be the center of a larger urban development project along the Connecticut River, and Mr. Kraft has agreed to build a hotel there, as well as make other gestures toward encouraging downtown development. But in return, the state is going to be responsible for the debt payment on $350 million in bonds. Mr. Rowland says the money will come from a tax on stadium revenues, but the estimate of how much money that tax will bring in seems optimistic.
The Connecticut State Legislature must meet before the end of the year to approve the deal. Right now, most lawmakers seem caught up in the euphoria of the moment. But that should not keep them from making hard-headed decisions about whether a state that already has a very high debt burden should be taking on this additional responsibility. It was good to see Hartford's politicians and business leaders looking optimistic for a change this week. But a $350 million investment has to buy something more than good feeling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; EDITORIALS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); VETO (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SPORTS (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BONDS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SCHOOL BONDS (69%); SUBURBS (66%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



538 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Pilgrims' Progress to Eager Connecticut Stirs Rancor in Bay State

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
New England is generally viewed as a bastion of civility, a place where Frostian musings about good fences making good neighbors do not immediately elicit cries to shut up. But in recent days, trash talking has replaced poetry recitals in the meadows and mill towns to the east.
Boston is calling Hartford, the proud Connecticut city built on insurance policies against bathtub falls and death, a ghost town for yahoos. Hartford counters by dismissing Boston, the noble Massachusetts metropolis that sees tragedy of Greek proportion in every Red Sox defeat, as a grimy, creaking haven for sore losers. Only Providence, the Rhode Island home to liberty and la Cosa Nostra, demonstrates having learned a lesson from the American Revolution. It democratically thumbs its nose at everyone. 
 At the root of all the discontent, waged in newspaper columns and on radio airwaves, is this week's announcement by Robert K. Kraft that he will move his National Football League team, the New England Patriots, from Foxboro, Mass., to Hartford in time for the 2001 season.
On one level, the issue merely reflects a series of business decisions: Massachusetts refused to placate the wealthy owner of a sports franchise with the subsidies that he sought, and so he went to a place where he felt more wanted, to a city looking to jump-start its revitalization. On another level, it speaks to the pull of regional identity, love for one's sports idols and contempt for one's neighbors.
Dan Shaughnessy, a sportswriter for The Boston Globe, greeted the prospect of losing the Patriots with a front-page polemic on Thursday against Mr. Kraft's choice of Hartford, whose charms apparently are lost on him. He called the city a "yahoo sports town" and "America's file cabinet," a place where "poor souls" wander "dead streets."
Vincent A. (Buddy) Cianci Jr., the Mayor of Providence, whose city also wooed the Patriots, asked: "Have the rules changed? Has Hartford become the celebrated city of the Northeast?"
"You can marry an ugly woman for enough money, I guess."
Yesterday, Jim Shea of The Hartford Courant raised his own pen in defense of his city, smearing Boston with his ink. "The best thing about Boston is Cape Cod," he said. "Boston has the charm of a storm sewer."
As for the common Boston lament that its residents would rather watch the ice sport of curling than travel to Hartford for a Patriots game, Mr. Shea wondered if it weren't for Boston fans, who would urinate in the streets, pick fights and "wander around stinking drunk?"
The exchanges have been nasty enough to make Boston's residents forget how to spell "Yastrzemski," and to make Hartford's denizens forget that the big G. Fox department store on Main Street is still vacant.
In the end, though, the dispute seems driven more by the busywork of sportswriters and commentators than by deep-seated resentment among different New England communities. First of all, the spokeswomen for the respective Mayor's offices of Boston and Hartford said they were rarely asked about rivalry between the two cities. More often, they say, their public squabbles are with Providence and its irrepressible Mayor, Mr. Cianci.
Second, the Patriots play in Foxboro, which is 30 miles from Boston, a city the team abandoned with such ill feeling years earlier that it changed its name from the Boston Patriots to the New England Patriots. Among certain Yankees, once a Benedict Arnold, always a Benedict Arnold.
Jacque Goddard, the spokeswoman for Boston's Mayor, Thomas M. Menino, said, "Many people in the city of Boston feel that the team has not had loyalty to the city, that it has purposely tried to shed its Boston image by moving elsewhere in Massachusetts and changing the name of the team."
Lastly, everyone agrees that Hartford could use a pat on its hunched back. Boston has the Red Sox and the Bruins. In addition to struggling economically, Hartford recently saw its only professional sports franchise, the Whalers hockey team, flee to North Carolina.
"It would be nice if people would see what we're all about before calling us yahoos," said Nilda Torres, the executive assistant to Hartford's Mayor, Michael Peters. "All we keep hearing is, 'Did you hear that Boston's radio stations are taking more swipes at us?' I mean, it's not our fault."
But Thomas D. Ritter, the Speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives, was more magnanimous about the disrespect that his hometown has received of late. People need to get things off their chests, he said. But it will end soon.
Mr. Ritter acknowledged that he spoke more from experience than from love for his fellow New Englanders: "When the Whalers left, I said some bad things about North Carolina."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS G FOX (50%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND; CONNECTICUT; MASSACHUSETTS; HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WINTER SPORTS (74%); ATHLETES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); RELOCATIONS (68%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (67%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; KRAFT, ROBERT K

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



539 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Yefim Geller, Grandmaster Of Daring Attacks, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Yefim Geller, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster whose penetrating technical analysis, inspired innovations and brilliant play helped the former Soviet Union almost totally dominate international chess for decades, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Moscow. He was 73.
The cause was complications of a long series of illnesses that included prostate cancer and heart disease, his family said. 
 For those with only a cursory knowledge of the ancient game of chess, it may seem surprising that a man who never won a world championship and whose most memorable public role was serving as Boris Spassky's beleaguered second in his 1972 world championship loss to Bobby Fischer, should be such a revered figure in chess circles.
That is at least partly because to its true believers chess is more than a sport -- both an art and a science, if not an actual religion -- and if Mr. Geller failed to achieve ultimate headline success, he was a feared attacker and discovered many innovations in venerable openings. His book, "The Application of Chess Theory," was reissued in paperback by Scribner's in 1995.
During a career in which he won the Soviet championship twice (1955 and 1979) and was a candidate to challenge the world champion six times, Mr. Geller also established an enviable personal record: a lifetime tournament edge over four world champions, Mikhail Botvinnik, Tigran Petrosian and Vasily Smyslov.
And in a satisfying personal triumph, Mr. Geller also has a winning edge (five victories, three losses, two draws) over Bobby Fischer himself.
A native of Odessa who served in the army in World War II and obtained a degree in economics from the University of Odessa, Mr. Geller was a late bloomer as a chess player. Like many in a country where chess is as popular as, say, basketball is in the United States, he learned chess as a child but did not take it seriously until college.
His other passion was basketball; though he was a short, stocky fellow built more along the lines of a wrestler he was a sure-handed star on a powerful Odessa team. Nevertheless, in a reflection of the Soviet Union's reverence for chess, his basketball coach, a chess enthusiast, urged him to concentrate on chess.
The results of his new single-minded pursuit were immediate. Making his major tournament debut in the 1949 Soviet championships while still a candidate master, he led until a final round loss dropped him to a tie for third, but his showing catapulted him into the pampered top rank of Soviet players.
Within a few years Mr. Geller, who became an international grandmaster in 1952, had a spacious house outside Moscow in Peredelkino, the artists' and writers' colony, and was a familiar figure at the elegant Central Chess Club in Moscow.
From the beginning, Mr. Geller was known for his often brilliant, sometimes reckless combinations and all-or-nothing slashing attacks, a style that sometimes cost him victories in games that came down to plodding positional battles that tried his patience. In time Mr. Geller learned to moderate his fervor for attack and obtain more consistent results, but it is a continuing tribute to his youthful daring that in winning his first Soviet championship in 1955 he became the only Soviet champion who has ever won the title while losing five games.
In one of the more bizarre episodes of his career, during the 1972 world championship in Iceland, it fell to Mr. Geller to issue a statement suggesting that Mr. Fischer's supporters might be using "electronic devices and a chemical substance" to weaken Mr. Spassky's playing ability. It is assumed that the statement was dictated by the Moscow authorities to prepare the Soviet people for Mr. Spassky's eventual loss.
In a crucial game Mr. Spassky, playing a familiar Queen's Gambit defense, failed to make an innovative move Mr. Geller had discovered.
Mr. Spassky lost the game, but a year later, playing the same line (against a weaker player, of course), Mr. Geller finally got a chance to make the new move and won the game decisively. The innovation was later hailed as one of the year's most brilliant.
He is survived by his wife, Oxana, and a son, Alexander.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yefim Geller (Camera Press, 1967)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHESS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); BOARD GAMES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (75%); HEART DISEASE (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); WRITERS (72%); CANCER (72%); RELIGION (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); WORLD WAR II (64%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: GELLER, YEFIM; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR BORIS VASILYEVICH SPASSKY (57%); ROBERT JAMES 'BOBBY' FISCHER (57%); TIGRAN VARTANOVICH PETROSIAN (54%); MIKHAIL MOISEEVICH BOTVINNIK (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



540 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: 'Zarya' Is Up, and Space Jigsaw Puzzle Starts

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
The first piece of the international space station was orbiting Earth today, sprouting antennae and unfolding solar power panels as it awaited other segments, which will eventually grow into the largest orbital laboratory in history.
The module called Zarya, from the Russian term meaning sunrise or dawn, took a flawless ride into space atop a three-stage Russian Proton booster rocket that lifted off at 1:40 A.M. Eastern time from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. 
 The launching was witnessed by the heads of the space agencies of the 16 nations that are sponsoring the station, which will cost at least $40 billion to build over the next five years. Zarya, built in Russia with $240 million from the United States, is to be joined in two weeks by the first American module, a docking hub called Unity.
The space shuttle Endeavour is to take off on Dec. 3 to rendezvous with Zarya and attach the two units. This is to be followed by 43 more flights by American and Russian rockets carrying more than 100 parts to be assembled in space to form a 900,000-pound research station housing up to seven astronauts.
Daniel S. Goldin, the administrator of NASA, said after the launching, "Now we only have 44 launches to go, about 1,000 hours of space walks and countless problems."
But because of all the partner nations trusting each other and working together, Mr. Goldin said, "the international space station is going to be a reality."
Even as the new space station is coming together, questions continue about the fate of Russia's existing space laboratory, the 12-year-old Mir. Because of the collapse of the Russian economy, doubts that Russia can produce enough rockets and other equipment to support both projects led Russia to promise that it would abandon Mir and destroy the station by next summer. But in recent weeks Russian officials have been lobbying to find ways to extend Mir's life.
According to a report by the Reuters news agency, President Boris N. Yeltsin's space adviser, Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, said today that he was preparing proposals on extending Mir's life past the year 2000. Support for such options has been growing in recent weeks among Russian space officials, astronauts and nationalists, who see Mir as a symbol of Russian achievements in space.
James Van Laak, NASA's deputy manager of operations for the space station, said today that the agency had not received any formal proposals about extending Mir's life.
"NASA would find such a proposal unacceptable if it has any measurable impact on the international space station," Mr. Van Laak said in a telephone interview from the Johnson Space Center in Houston. "No one has any objection to Mir or keeping it operational if the Russians find a way to support both projects."
Yuri Koptev, head of the Russian Space Agency, said the launching of Zarya, a 42,000-pound space tugboat that will supply power and propulsion in the early stages of station construction, was a needed vindication for the troubled Russian space program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Russian booster rocket carrying Zarya, the first piece of the space station, took off yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIR AS (62%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EARTH (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE STATIONS (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E DANIEL S GOLDIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



541 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
BEA SYSTEMS SHARES FALL ON SALES GROWTH WARNINGS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The stock of BEA Systems Inc., the No. 2 maker of software for airline reservation systems, lost about half their value yesterday after the company issued a surprise warning that sales growth would slow because customers had delayed orders. Shares plunged $13.0625, to $13.9375, in trading of 20.2 million shares, making it the most active United States stock. The company, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., blamed recessions in Asia and economic slowdowns elsewhere for the delay in corporate purchases. BEA was founded in 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SALES FIGURES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (87%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



542 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Corporations and Ticket Buyers Signal Strong Interest in Hartford Stadium for Patriots

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 20

 BODY:
The day after the Governor of Connecticut announced a deal to build a football stadium for the New England Patriots in Hartford, a Patriot official said today that the team had received 3,000 requests for 10,000 season tickets, and business leaders said they were interested in leasing the luxury suites that would be critical to the team's success.
In the days after the negotiations between Gov. John G. Rowland and Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, first became public knowledge, some people questioned whether this long-depressed capital city could attract enough corporate support, and whether it could fill seats with converted Jets and Giants fans as well as with the faithful from Boston. 
 But corporate leaders here said concerns about the team's economic viability were probably overblown. "Those people are being unduly pessimistic," said Lawrence R. Gottesdiener, whose company, the Northland Investment Corporation, of Newton, Mass., owns the Metro Center, an office complex near the Hartford Civic Center, and three other commercial buildings in the area. "They will be able to sell seats."
Half of the requests for season tickets, which started pouring in shortly after the deal was announced on Thursday, were from Connecticut residents, a Patriot spokesman said.
Under the terms of the agreement, the state will build a $350 million, 68,000-seat stadium as part of a $1 billion development along the Connecticut River that will include a hotel, convention center and sports stores. The team is scheduled to move to Hartford in the fall of 2001 from its current home in Foxboro, Mass., and the agreement is subject to the approval of the Connecticut Legislature.
The stadium is to have 125 to 150 luxury suites and 6,000 club seats, which typically feature comfortable chairs and waiter service. Luxury suites generally cost $50,000 to $100,000 each for eight league games and two exhibition games. Club seats can range from $1,000 to several thousand dollars a season.
Keith Anderson, a spokesman for the Travelers insurance operations group in Hartford, a division of Citigroup, said that it was too early for the company to decide whether to buy a luxury suite or club seats.
But Mr. Anderson did say that the company was considering the purchases. "All I can tell you is that the reaction among employees is one of enthusiasm," he said, adding that Citigroup has about 7,000 employees in the area. "Already, we have been getting calls about tickets. If the response of our employees is any indication, this stands a very good chance of success."
Edward L. Morgan, a group senior vice president of the Hartford Financial Services Group, a venerable financial services and insurance company here, echoed that sentiment. "We have always been supporters of sports and the arts in Hartford, and I suspect we would be with the Patriots," he said.
Joe McGee, vice president of the Southwestern Connecticut Area Commerce and Industry Association in Stamford, said that a crucial factor in the team's success might be whether Patriots games are televised regularly on cable stations that can be seen in Fairfield County, an affluent suburb of New York that is home to the headquarters of many Fortune 500 companies.
He noted that when the team and the state were close to a similar deal in 1993, there was significant interest among Fairfield County-based corporations in the 80 luxury seats offered then.
"Some companies were interested, and some had concerns because they had arrangements with the New York teams," he said.
Robert Samek, 44, of Kensington, Conn., who grew up watching Giant games on television every Sunday with his father and brother, said abandoning the New York team was unthinkable. "I'll buy Patriots season tickets," said Mr. Samek, who went to both Giant Super Bowl games, one in Pasadena, Calif., and the other in Tampa, Fla. "It's one way of assuring yourself of a ticket to a Giants game someday down the road."
In addition to attracting support from corporations in Connecticut, the team will need to retain the allegiance of companies based in Boston. Some large companies, like BankBoston, have already said that they plan to support the Patriots in Hartford.
"We have a sky box now that we use to entertain clients, and we will have a sky box in any stadium as long as the stadium is located in a state where we do business," said Bruce Spitzer, a BankBoston company spokesman. "We have a large franchise in Connecticut. Our colleagues there are very excited."
Many people in the Boston area, however, are as upset as football fans in Baltimore were when their beloved Baltimore Colts moved to Indianapolis in 1984.
"There has never been a greater indication of what is wrong with our government system," said Jeff Keith, the marketing and public relations manager for Spike Technologies in Nashua, N.H. "There are hundreds of thousands of businessmen, fans and taxpayers throughout Massachusetts who would have done anything to get the deal done."
Like many fans of Boston sports teams, he directed special ire at the Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, Thomas M. Finneran, whose fiscal restraint caused Mr. Kraft to flee to Hartford.
"One man has single-handedly insured that Boston will lose yet again another landmark," said Mr. Keith, who has held season tickets for six years. "Any businessman, or legislator, worth his salt can easily see the positive financial impact a professional team of the Patriots' caliber has on the overall economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hartford Courant welcomed the New England Patriots to the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NORTHLAND INVESTMENT CORP (69%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INSURANCE (66%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) TONY NEWTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1998



543 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: 'Created Unequal'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his review of "Created Unequal: The Crisis in American Pay" (Nov. 1), Bruce Nussbaum faults me for including criticism of the Federal Reserve's current chairman, Alan Greenspan, in my general assault on the legacy of monetarism, anti-inflation monomania and the so-called natural rate of unemployment at the Federal Reserve. But the passage he refers to is a discussion of monetary policy through 1992, a period when Greenspan had not yet broken with orthodoxy on these issues. And so Greenspan did earn a share of responsibility for the rise in inequality that recession and high unemployment produced during this time. 
 Since then, Greenspan has indeed changed his views, and he deserves credit especially for pushing to lower interest rates in recent months in the face of the Asian crisis. This last issue is too recent to be covered in a book that went to press in late 1997, but I have repeatedly praised Greenspan on this score this year.
 
James K. Galbraith
Austin, Tex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: CREATED UNEQUAL: THE CRISIS IN AMERICAN PAY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); RECESSION (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LITERATURE (65%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JAMES K; NUSSBAUM, BRUCE ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



544 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Florida City's Hopes For Airport Bog Down

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: HOMESTEAD, Fla.

 BODY:
IN the six years since Hurricane Andrew devastated this agricultural city south of Miami, officials here have struggled to jump-start the economy. But nature seems to be against Homestead, again, as plans for turning the closed Homestead Air Force Base into a commercial airport -- a major project that could bring dollars and jobs -- have bogged down over the possible environmental damage to two nearby national parks.
After first winning approval from the Federal Aviation Administration, the airport plan is now undergoing further study to address concerns about how Biscayne National Park, two miles east of the base, and Everglades National Park, 10 miles to the west, would be affected by noise, air and water pollution from their new neighbor and the development expected to surround it. Plans call for the airport to handle more than 200,000 flights a year for passengers and cargo and attract new industry. 
 Miami-Dade County officials have promoted the airport plan as a way of relieving some of the traffic at Miami International Airport, 30 miles to the north, while helping to revitalize the area. In 1992, Hurricane Andrew inflicted more than $400 million in economic losses to the region; the Homestead Air Force Base, which provided about 5,000 military and civilian jobs, was so badly damaged that it had to close. In 1994 the base was converted into an Air Force Reserves installation with about 2,000 people that now occupies about a third of the former base's 3,000 acres.
"We were crippled twice, all in one night," said Homestead Mayor Steve Shiver, who governs this city of about 25,000 residents in the heart of Miami-Dade County's farmland.
"It's extremely important," he said, referring to the airport. "It's not the single savior but it definitely puts us on the right track."
Federal studies to transfer 1,600 acres of the base to the county found the site compatible with a commercial regional airport, and the redevelopment plans won Miami-Dade County approval in 1996. But the Federal Government's environmental report came under attack from conservationists for failing to adequately address the effects on Biscayne National Park, a 180,000-acre aquatic park that is almost entirely under water, and Everglades National Park, a wilderness park on 1.5 million acres of sawgrass marshes, pineland, and mangrove and cypress swamps.
Critics see the airport proposal as undermining the Federal Government's own multimillion-dollar restoration project to preserve the Everglades. The opponents, including the Sierra Club and the National Audubon Society, contend that noise from passenger jets would surpass what the National Park Service considers acceptable. They also worry about degradation of water quality in Biscayne Bay, fuel dumping and collisions with birds. Already, they note, the air base is undergoing a petroleum cleanup after the United States Environmental Agency placed it on a priority list of polluted properties in 1990. Airport proponents counter that today's environmental laws would prevent such contamination again.
Joseph Browder, a longtime Everglades conservationist who now lives in Washington, says the county should promote the area's natural offerings through eco-tourism and develop hotels and homes and the kind of tourism facilities that one would expect to find in such a place: "Instead of capitalizing on a location with two world-class national parks, the county wants to turn that area into an industrial complex."
The environmental concerns have led the Air Force and the Federal Aviation Administration to review the project again, and the scope of the new study has been expanded to consider adverse effects on agriculture and tourism, air travel safety and traffic. The study is also looking into alternative uses for the site, including a theme park, a marine research center, a space launching facility, and other government and military use. Public hearings will be held on the study when it is completed, sometime next year.
Miami-Dade County officials say they still hope to achieve their goal, with minimal impact to the surroundings. They say they have been looking for 14 years for a site to accommodate overflow from Miami International but have not found it. None of the county's three general aviation airports, which include one in Homestead, can be expanded, they said, because of their proximity to residential and business areas.
The county has committed $25 million to the Homestead airport project for a new terminal and renovations. "You already have an airfield there," said Sandy O'Neil, an adviser to Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas. "It's not like we're going into the middle of the forest to build an airport."

GRAPHIC: Map of southeastern Florida, highlighting Homestead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOMESTEAD (FLA); EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK; BISCAYNE NATIONAL PARK; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOMESTEAD AIR FORCE BASE (FLA); AIRPORTS AIRPORTS (94%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); AIR FORCES (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); HURRICANES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); WATER PARKS (71%); WILDERNESS (71%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



545 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2394 words

HEADLINE: Cozying Up to a Sailing Behemoth

BYLINE: By TERRY TRUCCO; TERRY TRUCCO is a regular contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
I HAD never been on a cruise, so the idea of sailing the Caribbean on the largest passenger ship in the world, the new 109,000-ton Grand Princess, seemed irresistible. My husband, considerably less enchanted, voted to stay home. "Wasn't Titanic once the largest passenger ship in the world?" he said.
Undaunted, in July I tried to book on the ship's first seven-day Caribbean voyage in early October. The Grand Princess was sold out, but for her cruise two weeks later, I could have a private portside cabin with an obstructed view for $2,267.10, including round-trip air fare from New York to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. I took it, and giggled when the agent told me that I was No. 223 on the waiting list for the second dinner seating. Welcome to life on the world's biggest ship. 
 The aptly named Grand, which made her debut last May in the Mediterranean, is big in almost every way you can imagine, from her 951-foot length, the equivalent of almost three football fields, to her 118-foot breadth, too wide to squeeze through the Panama Canal. When the Grand Princess is filled, her 2,600 passengers and crew of 1,100 could qualify as a small town.
Part of the Grand's vastness is taken up by amenities the Princess line claims no cruise ship has ever offered, including an enormous 24-hour buffet, a wedding chapel, a virtual-reality arcade and a digital photography studio, where you can have your picture inserted, Zelig-style, next to John F. Kennedy or Elvis or on a surf board atop a 20-foot wave. Beyond that, there's just more of everything you'd expect -- 3 capacious dining rooms with assigned seating, 2 smaller restaurants requiring reservations, 11 bars, 5 swimming pools, 9 hot tubs, 3 theaters, a sprawling casino, a library, a gym, a spa and a glassed-in disco suspended like a gigantic space capsule over the ship's rear deck. Even the classic teak deck that rings the ship is so generous you need to circle it just over two and a half times to walk a mile; on many ships, a mile is four circuits, according to the cruise line.
I was eager to sample the Grand because big boats seem destined to be cruising's future. By this time next year, at least two equally gigantic ships will sail, and more ultra-mega ships are planned. The law of economics is partly responsible: it costs less to accommodate 2,000 passengers on one colossus than to divide them between more intimate vessels. Large ships can also provide lots of things to do and see. But will you ever meet the captain?
It was impossible not to gape as our bus from Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport pulled up alongside the ship in Port Everglades. With endless rows of navy blue windows and a hulking white frame, the Grand, built by Fincantieri, the Italian shipbuilder, looked like a skyscraper on its side. The vessel loomed more than 12 stories above and dwarfed the icily air-conditioned warehouse nearby where I checked in with surprising speed and received a blue plastic "cruise card." Emblazoned with an image of the Grand, the card doubled as a credit card for shipboard purchases and a room key ("Stick it in the door slot bow-side first," the clerk instructed). I was ready to board in less than 15 minutes.
The gangway opened onto an expansive three-story atrium that looked like the glitzy lobby of an international chain hotel, with pale maple-paneled walls, curving marble stairs, peach-colored club chairs and two glass elevators. As a pianist at a white baby grand played "Wind Beneath My Wings," passengers milled about, most casually dressed in shorts and many clutching maps. Crew members in spotless whites offered directions by the elevators, but nearly everyone I saw looked a little lost.
I certainly felt lost. Although the layout is supremely logical, it took almost the entire week for me to figure out where everything was. "There's just so much here," I overheard a puzzled looking woman say.
Fortunately, I managed to find my cabin, E-629, without too much difficulty. On the elevator, a woman's recorded voice silkily announces each floor (I was on Emerald -- the 8th of 17 floors). And though the well-lighted hallways that run the length of the ship look like bowling alleys, each corridor is carpeted in a different color (your map includes an illustration of the carpet in front of your cabin).
My luggage was waiting outside the door, and I had just begun to unpack when it was time to sail. Consulting a map, I headed to a huge open deck, where hundreds of people sipping drinks stood near the varnished wood rails and lounged on merrily striped chaises by an enormous pool. With a vigorous blast of the horn and "Celebration," the old Kool and the Gang song, blaring from the loudspeakers, the Grand Princess pulled away. On shore, several big condos flashed their lights as we passed.
From the start, the cruise organizers showered us with shopping tips and touring details for the three ports we'd visit -- St. Thomas, St. Martin and Princess Cays on Eleuthera in the Bahamas. But the ship was clearly the star attraction. Its decorators seemed to have two main goals -- create distinctive High Nineties interiors with a touch of camp and whimsy, and make barn-size spaces seem cozy.
For the most part, they succeeded. Instead of the hard-edged chrome and glass identified with cruise ships, there are acres of light-colored woods, satin-finished brass and custom fabrics in rich colors. The decks, pools and mosaic-sided hot tubs came in classic cruise hues -- blues and whites. The custom carpets included a jaunty jumble of sapphire and green planets in the futuristic disco, and fanciful lions, leopards and monkeys in the Explorers lounge, where the bartenders wear pith helmets.
Efforts to minimize vast spaces were obvious in the dining rooms, Da Vinci, Michelangelo and Botticelli. Da Vinci, where I had snared a place at the second seating, held several hundred, but multiple levels, small groupings of tables and discreet placement of wood waiter stations, effectively divided up the room. Tiny twinkle lights winked from the ceiling. And in case you forgot in whose honor your dining room was named, you needed only to look at the walls, which were adorned with enormous contemporary renderings of Renaissance masterpieces, like Botticelli's "Venus."
I liked my assigned dinner companions, seasoned cruisers who seemed a microcosm of the passengers. They included a couple from Memphis, with grown grandchildren (23d cruise), a middle-age couple from Rockland County, N.Y. (6th cruise), a couple in their 20's from San Francisco (2d cruise) and a grandmother from Cape Town, South Africa, who went dancing every night after dinner (10th cruise). "A cruise is supposed to be a little bit elegant," the woman from Memphis observed, noting with approval that everyone we could see wore evening clothes on the two formal dress nights.
Like my dining companions, the ambitious cooking served at our nightly six-course meals represented several generations' tastes. Caviar, escargot, beef Wellington, king crab legs and lobster shared the menu with vegetarian offerings (Moroccan vegetable ragout, broiled eggplant with pistachio mint salsa) and low fat, low cholesterol selections (mahi mahi with asparagus, fresh fruit with Armagnac).
The dinners reminded me of hotel banquets -- perfectly acceptable but not memorable. But the desserts -- profiteroles drizzled with chocolate, white chocolate mousse, cherries jubilee -- were divine. I was pleased to see a poster announcing that the pastry chef was employee of the month, though I'd also have nominated our waiter, Pepe. When a woman at our table broke her glasses, he dashed to his cabin and returned, a bit breathless, with a tube of Super Glue.
Because the dinners were so rich, I was grateful for other eating options. I visited the 24-hour buffet, which was embellished with ice sculptures and carved fruit, whenever I wanted potato salad, a late breakfast (great corned beef hash, so-so pancakes), chocolate cake at midnight or a chance to eat alone and read. Pizza, hot dogs and hamburgers were available at two poolside stands all day. There were also two small specialty restaurants, one Italian, one Southwestern, that everyone talked about. Reservations cost $3.50 a person, and were so hard to get that I never succeeded.
I wanted to spend my days at sea doing whatever I couldn't do at home, and so did the other passengers. Sun-bathing was a high priority for most, judging from the crowds around the pools, where it was hard to find a free chaise. My favorite pool was in the Conservatory, which had a retractable glass ceiling, potted palms, mosaic pillars adorned with ceramic fish and live music from a Caribbean steel band.
But I wanted exercise and opted for the daily three-lap walk on the breezy deck and a sprint up nine flights of stairs. My first walk effectively chased away all twinges of cabin fever -- the air, the teak below my feet, the view, even the ship's gentle rocking were infectious. I did the Mile Walk daily, in part to earn enough Cruise Coupons to get a free T-shirt. Coupons were given out after the aerobics classes, too, which were basic but easily adaptable for any fitness level. Below a 10-lap-to-the-mile track, the huge, two-room gym was magnificent, with mirrors, marble and exercise machines overlooking the water. The classes were full but not crowded, though there was a sign-up sheet for the treadmills.
I also took a free merengue lesson, had a rather perfunctory $50 pedicure in the spa, borrowed a Walter Mosely novel from the library, watched the Flip, Flop and Fly contest (10 hefty passengers trying to make the biggest splash in the pool) and caught parts of recent movies like "The Truman Show" in the Princess Theater. Most nights before dinner, I curled on a leather sofa at the Wheelock Bar to hear John de Haas, a cabaret pianist, play his own intriguing New Age compositions, as well as show tunes.
After dinner, there were at least three entertaining, if very mainstream, shows -- Broadway revues with singers and dancers, and variety shows with comedians, magicians and acrobats. If one theater was full, I'd visit another. A sweet surprise was that I rarely stood in line for anything.
The other surprise, considerably less sweet, was shipboard fees. Coffee, tea, iced tea and water were free, but there was a fee, and a 15 percent service charge, for all other beverages, even soft drinks at dinner. Those $1.50 fruit punches, $2.50 Haagen-Dazs milk shakes and $3 drinks of the day (margaritas, rum punches and a weird Kah lua-and-banana conconction) added up. So did tours of the ports -- for $22, I had an enjoyable bus tour of St. Martin -- as well as visits to the Virtual Reality arcade, digital photo studio and putting green. I paid $47.50 for a five-minute call to New York; at least the connection was excellent.
I didn't spend a lot of time in my cabin because the rest of the ship was more interesting. Though more than 700 of the ship's 1,300 cabins have balconies, mine didn't; instead, a large orange and white life boat was parked outside my window, obstructing the view, as I had been warned. My crisp blue and white room was comfortable -- for one person, at least -- and I liked the huge mirror framed in the same pale stripe fabric as the curtains. The room opened onto a compact dressing area with narrow floor-to-ceiling shelves and an open closet with removable wood hangers.
Unfortunately, there was no place to store a large suitcase. The tiny bathroom consisted of a stall shower, toilet and sink. (Larger cabins had bathtubs with showers.)
Handsome wood moldings softened the room's sharp edges and accented the night stands and desk. A built-in corner cabinet hid the mini-fridge and had shelves for glasses and a television, which received two 24-hour movie channels, among others. Two twin beds were pushed together to form a queen on the opposite wall, where bedside panels controlled the lights.
The service was excellent. The extra blanket I requested arrived promptly, fresh towels appeared twice a day, and though I twice forgot to hang my breakfast request on the front door at bedtime, my coffee, cranberry juice and three little raisin danish arrived shortly after I put out the card.
I had worried about getting seasick, but our cruise was remarkably calm, due in large part to the ship's stabilizers. I was shocked to discover just how turbulent the water really was the day we took tenders to St. Martin and I almost fell out. Back on the ship, however, everything was smooth, with just a slight sway that was alternately unnerving and soothing, even while moving at 22 knots -- faster than most cruise ships, the line says. I also relished the special moments that came without warning, like the night I saw a silvery sliver of moon from the deck or the dramatically blustery day I watched the sky turn inky blue at dusk.
By the end of the trip, I'd even found several quiet places to curl up with a book and forget that 2,599 other passengers were on board. My favorite was the disco on the top floor, a fantasy room where Star Wars meets the Starlite Lounge that you'd find only on a cruise ship. I liked the teal club chairs sprinkled with silver stars. And I loved the view of the foamy turquoise stripe the ship left behind as it sailed.
Most of all, I liked the fact that the ship's noisiest spot by night was one of the quietest by day. A big impersonal ship could, in fact, be homey. By the end of the cruise, I had even begun to see passengers I recognized. But I never did meet the captain.
 
$2,267, plus Cokes
Though many people book cruises through travel agents, I called the Princess Cruise Line directly, at (800) 774-6237. My $2,267.10 fare for the seven-day cruise in October included an outside cabin for one, round-trip air fare from New York to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., port fees and cancellation insurance.
There is a charge for any extras like all soft or alcoholic drinks and ice cream outside of meals. I spent an additional $208.15 on these and such activities as a tour of St. Martin ($22), a pedicure ($57.50) and an international phone call ($47.50).
The Grand Princess sails the Caribbean until she crosses the Atlantic May 23, then cruises the Mediterranean starting June 7.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Skywalkers Nightclub is suspended over the rear deck. There are at least three shows a night to choose from. (Photographs from Princess Cruises); Passengers at the Ice Cream Bar (those cones cost extra). (Cindy Karp/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 9); The Grand Princess, too big for the Panama Canal. Neptune's Reef and Pool has one of nine hot tubs. The jogging track above the gym. The author's room, E-629. (Barry M. Winiker (ship); Cindy Karp/Black Star, for The New York Times (hot tub and room); Princess Cruises (jogger))(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (64%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); PANAMA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (70%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); PANAMA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (70%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; GRAND PRINCESS (CRUISE SHIP) MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); WALKING & JOGGING (65%); MARINE SHIPPING (64%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); AIR FARES (55%); VIRTUAL REALITY (50%); 

PERSON: TRUCCO, TERRY JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



546 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 87; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Food;
Fowl Play

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill

 BODY:
Turkey advocates went to federal court yesterday, seeking to enjoin the Office of Meaningful and Appropriate Rituals from paying subsidies to quail farmers. The payments, discovered in a secret memorandum leaked to Pullet News, touched off a firestorm of protest in Washington last week. Not since the writer Calvin Trillin proposed that spaghetti carbonara replace turkey as the official Thanksgiving dish has OMAR been at the center of such a holiday scandal.
Turkey Forever plans coast-to-coast protests right up to Thanksgiving, and a major publicity campaign has been launched to counter the prevailing belief among OMAR officials -- and the public at large -- that the turkey has grown too big and too tasteless. The activists are incensed at what they feel is official insensitivity to a breed that has been genetically engineered to suit the prevailing taste in America for big breasts. What has resulted, they say, is not the turkey's fault. 
 "Socially and economically," said one big-bird advocate, "turkeys are the equivalent of first wives. They've sacrificed their own identities in order to become what America wanted. Can we sit idly by as flocks are turned out in favor of a new line of trophy quails?"
Sadly, the specter of a spurned turkey is not as frightening as the possibility that Thanksgiving will become like any other day, said an OMAR official, who agreed to explain the agency's rationale if his name was not disclosed.
Throughout history, he said, cultures have modified their festivals and rituals to distinguish them from everyday life. A 22-pound tom may have been a titillating contrast to hardscrabble colonial life, but in a time of big bagels, big muffins and Big Macs, big birds are no big deal.
Perhaps it is America's destiny to make the extraordinary ordinary. "No sooner does a humble food item garner some appeal," said the official, "than it begins to grow exponentially." He pointed to the bagel, once a chewy little palm-size disk, suddenly anointed as healthful.
"Before you could say hold the lox, you needed two hands to hold the bagel. Today, you could not have a bagel for breakfast and still have room for Thanksgiving dinner." And so it is in that way that the bagel, and things like it, have co-opted the spirit of Thanksgiving.
OMAR officials considered the chicken but found it, like the turkey, altogether too ordinary to serve as the centerpiece of the national holiday meal. Capon, goose, partridge and duck were found to be too effete, and if truth be told, too distinct in flavor to be serious contenders. Diet and health advocates lobbied for tofu. And a small band of traditionalists proposed Cape Cod turkey, the old-fashioned dish of whole-baked cod. But OMAR thought it unwise to leap between phylla.
Of course, the agency understood that there would be a need to retool for something so diminutive as quail, and that major food producers would have to scramble to create tiny packages of premade stuffing. Still, no one seems to have grasped quail's most redemptive aspect: how much less chewing is required.
In a nation where the family meal is on the decline, less food and more talk on Thanksgiving could be a truly novel idea.
 
Quails With Peppercorns
 
 8 quails
 1 1/2 teaspoons coarse sea salt
 3 tablespoons mixed whole peppercorns (any combination of white, pink, green and Sichuan)
 1/4 cup honey
 3 tablespoons apple-cider vinegar
 Chopped tarragon leaves for garnish.
1. Rinse the quails and pat them dry. Use poultry shears or a sharp knife to cut away the feet and any extra neck portions from the birds.
2. Heat a small skillet over medium heat and add the salt and peppercorns. Roast the mixture, shaking the pan, until the peppercorns become fragrant and the salt just begins to color, about 2 minutes. Transfer the mixture to a cutting board and use the back of a heavy pot to very coarsely crush the peppercorns.
3. Rub each quail generously inside and out with the peppercorn mixture. Refrigerate for 4 to 6 hours or overnight.
4. When ready to cook the quails, prepare a charcoal grill or preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Whisk together the honey and vinegar.
5. To grill the quails, have the coals at moderate heat. Place the quails breast-side down on the grill and brush them with the honey-vinegar mixture. Turn them every 3 to 4 minutes and baste with the sauce until all sides are browned and the juices from the quails are just rosy, about 12 to 20 minutes. (To roast in the oven, place the quails breast-side down in a roasting pan fitted with a rack and brush generously with the honey-vinegar mixture. Roast, turning every 5 minutes and basting again with the mixture, until they are nicely browned and the juices are just rosy, about 20 minutes. Remove them from the oven.)
6. Allow the quails to sit, covered, for 5 minutes. Use poultry shears to split the quails down the middle and remove the back bone. Place the quail halves on a platter and garnish with chopped tarragon. Serve with cranberry relish (see recipe).
Yield: 8 first-course or 4 main-course servings.
 
Quails Roasted With Bacon and Foie Gras
 
 8 quails
 Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
 3 ounces foie gras
 16 strips bacon.
1. Rinse the quails and pat them dry. Use poultry shears or a sharp knife to cut away the feet and any extra neck skin. Season them inside and out with salt and pepper.
2. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Cut the foie gras into 8 equal pieces. Place a small amount of each piece into the cavity of each bird, and place the remainder on the breast of each bird. Wrap two strips of bacon tightly around each bird to hold the foie gras in place, securing the bacon with kitchen string or toothpicks if necessary.
3. Place the wrapped quails, breast-side up, on a roasting pan fitted with a rack and roast for 20 minutes, or until the bacon is crispy and the juices from the bird are rosy and no longer red. Remove from the oven, cover with foil and let cool for 5 minutes before serving. Serve with the cranberry relish (see recipe).
Yield: 8 first-course or 4 main-course servings.
 
Dried Cranberry, Cherry and Tomato Relish
 
 1 cup dried cranberries
 3/4 cups dried cherries
 1/2 cup dried tomatoes, diced
 3/4 cup apple cider
 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
 3 shallots, chopped
 1 Granny Smith apple, peeled, seeded, cored and cut into 1/4-inch dice
 1/2 cup fresh, halved cranberries
 2 teaspoons orange zest
 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt.
1. In a bowl, combine the dried cranberries, cherries, tomatoes, cider and 3/4 cup water. Set aside for 30 minutes.
2. Heat a large saucepan over medium heat and add the oil. Add the shallots and cook, stirring, until they are just tender, about 3 minutes. (Do not let them brown.) Add the dried-fruit-and-cider mixture, the apple, fresh cranberries and orange zest. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes. Serve warm or cold.
Yield: 2 1/3 cups.
 
Warm Bread Salad
 
 2 12- to 14-ounce round loaves white country bread
 3 cups homemade or low-sodium chicken stock
 5 tablespoons butter
 3 medium onions, diced
 3 carrots, peeled and finely diced
 1 1/2 stalks of celery, finely diced
 1/4 pound chicken livers, chopped
 2 tablespoons sherry vinegar
 1/2 cup dried currants or chopped raisins
 1 tablespoon chopped sage
 2 teaspoons chopped thyme
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper.
1. Cut the top third of the bread off and set the parts aside, uncovered, for several hours or overnight. When the bread is somewhat stale, use your hands or a spoon to scrape the bread away from the crusts. Set the larger bottom crusts aside and rip the top crusts into small pieces. Place the pieces, along with the interior bread, in a large bowl and add 2 cups of the stock. Sprinkle the remaining cup of stock over the bread-crust bowls. Set aside.
2. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. In a large skillet, melt 3 tablespoons of the butter over medium heat and add the onions, carrots and celery. Cook, stirring, until the vegetables are tender (do not let them brown), 3 to 4 minutes. Add the chicken livers and continue to cook until they are just cooked through, 3 to 5 minutes.
3. Add the sherry vinegar and currants to the pan with the livers and cook until the vinegar just evaporates, about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and add the soaked bread, sage, thyme, salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly.
4. Dice the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter and dot inside the bottom of the bread bowls with it. Spoon the mixture into the bowls, packing it in and mounding it. Cover the bowls with foil and place them on a baking sheet. Bake for 25 minutes, or until they are warmed through. Slice into wedges and serve.
Yield: 10 to 12 servings.
 
Glazed Shallots
 
 1 1/4 pounds (about 36) small shallots, peeled
 1/2 cup white wine
 1 cup homemade or low-sodium chicken stock
 1 tablespoon sugar
 1 teaspoon kosher salt
 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
 A few grinds black pepper.
1. In a skillet just large enough to hold the shallots in a single layer, combine the shallots, wine, stock, sugar, salt and 2 tablespoons of the butter. Place over high heat, bring to a boil, lower to a simmer and cook, uncovered, until the liquid evaporates and the shallots are very tender, about 10 to 15 minutes.
2. Raise heat to medium high and cook, shaking the pan frequently, until the shallots begin to brown and are coated with a thick syrup. Remove from heat and add the final tablespoon of butter, shaking the pan until it is melted and incorporated. Serve immediately.
Yield: 6 servings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Say thanks for quail roasted with peppercorns, served with a dried cranberry relish. (Photograph by Alan Richardson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (72%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (72%); OFFICE OF MEANINGFUL&APPROPRIATE RITUALS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MEANINGFUL&APPROPRIATE RITUALS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THANKSGIVING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BIRDS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (69%); HISTORY (69%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); NUTRITION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



547 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 58; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: High on the Hog

BYLINE: By Michelle Cottle; Michelle Cottle is a contributing editor to Washington Monthly. This is her first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
The political frieght train that was Newt Gingrich has been derailed, thanks in no small part to what many House Republicans view as his shameful kowtowing to the Administration during last month's budget battle. But Newt is leaving behind at least one legacy guaranteed to please even the most die-hard conservative: an additional $9 billion for defense financing. At an Oct. 15 press conference announcing the deal, Speaker Gingrich crowed, "I am very proud that this is the first time since 1985 that in peacetime we have increased defense spending, because our young men and women in uniform deserve the support of the United States of America."
Though he didn't say so, Gingrich must surely also be proud of the support he and his Capitol Hill colleagues won for the deserving men and women of the Lockheed Martin Corporation. Specifically, Congress earmarked some $465 million for the purchase of seven C-130J cargo planes from the defense contractor -- six more than the Department of Defense had requested. Granted, this was not an especially fresh or creative example of pork spending: fiscal year 1999 marks the 22d straight year in which Congress has ordered up more C-130's than requested. In fiscal years 1996 through 1998, Congress added more than $1 billion to the Air Force's budget for the new J model. What makes this round of spending particularly impressive, however, is Congress's determination to get the unwanted aircraft through the budget process against the express wishes of the Pentagon. 
 Developed in the mid-1950's, the C-130 is a midrange workhorse, used for everything from cargo and troop transport to midair refueling to hurricane hunting. Unlike the stealthy B-2 bomber, which was developed for the cold-war purpose of nuking Russia, the humble C-130's retain a useful role. The problem is, the Air Force already has 690 of them -- 50 more than it knows what to do with, according to an April report by the General Accounting Office. Since 1996, the Air Force has asked for one or two C-130J's a year as replacements, but Congress has provided 28.
What might account for Congress's apparently un-slakable thirst for C-130's? For one, the planes are widely used by the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserves, which have bases throughout the country. Big-money campaign giving by Lockheed Martin may also play a part. Equally powerful, though, are the benefits the C-130 brings to the home states of several powerful legislators.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kentucky (Senator Wendell Ford)
One stalwart Democratic friend of the C-130 is the retiring Senator Wendell Ford. In 1994 and again in 1997, Ford held up the promotion of Air Force generals in response to the service's plans to cut four C-130's assigned to the Kentucky Air National Guard. Those plans were subsequently dropped.
This is not to imply that Ford and Representative John Murtha of Pennsylvania are the only Democrats in the C-130 camp. Thirty-two states house C-130's at reserve bases, assuring that numerous House members on both sides of the aisle harbor at least a passing interest in keeping new planes rolling in.
 
Mississippi (Senator Trent Lott)
While the planes may be assembled on the turf of the outgoing Speaker, Newt Gingrich, their fuselage panels and other structural elements are manufactured at a Lockheed Martin feeder plant in the home state of the Senate Majority Leader, Trent Lott. What's more, the finished products have a tendency to wind up at Keesler Air Force Base in Biloxi. The more aircraft that are parked in a legislator's state, the more jobs there are for military and civilian personnel -- no small consideration at a time when Congress is being pressured to close underutilized bases to save money. Currently, 18 older-model C-130's are parked at Keesler. Of the 28 under-construction C-130J's currently earmarked for the Air Force, 14 are scheduled to go to Mississippi.
Although deployment decisions are typically handled by Air Force officials, in recent years almost all of the C-130's have been stationed by Congress. As a result, new C-130's don't always replace the oldest existing planes. The G.A.O. found that of the 49 aircraft retired between June 1991 and May 1997, 13 had an estimated 14 years of flight service remaining. The other 36 planes were B models with older technology and only a few flight years left. However, since the Air Force hadn't known that these aircraft would soon be rendered superfluous by Congressional add-ons, 40 of the 49 retired planes had recently undergone $9 million worth of upgrades.
 
Pennsylvania (Rep. John Murtha)
Why don't Democrats raise a bigger fuss about the G.O.P. pork fest? Representative John Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat and the ranking minority member on the House Appropriations subcommittee -- which oversees defense spending -- has suggested that it has largely been a matter of keeping Gingrich, Lott and other Congressional leaders happy. In June, The Washington Post quoted Murtha as saying, "Whenever a leadership member asks, we try to take care of them unless it's a bad program." What Murtha didn't mention is that parts for the C-130 are manufactured in his home state. Also, Pennsylvania National Guard units are expecting to receive three of the new J models -- assuming, of course, that they don't get rerouted to Mississippi.
 
Georgia (Rep. Newt Gingrich)
The heart of the planes' Congressional support lies in the Deep South. They are manufactured (and have been since 1955) at Lockheed Martin's facilities in Marietta, Ga., within spitting distance of Newt Gingrich's home district. The C-130 series is a top Lockheed Martin money-maker, and fat C-130 contracts for Lockheed Martin mean defense jobs for many of the former Speaker's constituents. As such, it's perhaps not surprising that the unrequested C-130's in this year's budget were inserted at Newt's behest.
Last year, Gingrich dismissed the Pentagon's complaints, assuring The New York Times that the Air Force "always underrequests C-130's, and they always know they'll be added by Congress. It's a game the Air Force plays every year." An Air Force spokesman, however, denies that the service has been "gaming the system." Especially in recent years, he says, tighter defense budgets have made additional C-130's a luxury that the Air Force can ill afford.
 
Washington (PAC money)
In addition to its impact on regional economies, Lockheed Martin has more than a little influence inside the Beltway. Last year, the company spent an estimated $3.6 million on lobbying activities. A company spokesman insists that such expenditures have little effect on programs like the C-130: "The company's point of view is, We are just here to build airplanes. Sure we like to tell people about the C-130J. We like to market our product. But to say we're impacting the process gives us a little bit more credit than is due."
Just to be on the safe side, however, Lockheed Martin takes steps to improve its Congressional credit rating come election time. As of Nov. 1, the company's political action committee had distributed more than $900,000 to Federal candidates during the 1997-98 election cycle. Combined contributions from Lockheed Martin's employees and PAC lifted the company into a tie for fourth-largest contributor to Speaker Gingrich's campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The company was the No. 2 contributor to Trent Lott's last Senate campaign. And in a display of bipartisan spirit, it was tied for top contributor to John Murtha in this cycle.
 
Florida (group effort)
Even as new planes roll off the assembly line, older models must be updated. And all that Congressional porking of past years means there are plenty of planes out there in need of an overhaul. For instance, in October, Boeing won a $1.2 billion contract to upgrade certain systems of the Air Force's existing fleet of C-130's. The work will be performed at the company's Fort Walton Beach, Fla., facility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BILOXI, MS, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (84%); US AIR FORCE (94%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); BILOXI, MS, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); AIR FREIGHT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); HURRICANES (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); JOHN P MURTHA (91%); TRENT LOTT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



548 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7042 words

HEADLINE: The Fresh Prince

BYLINE: By Warren Hoge; Warren Hoge, editor of The New York Times Magazine from 1991 to 1993, is chief of The Times's London bureau.

 BODY:
The royal train, sleek and black with pencil-thin red trimming, is hurtling toward Newcastle, and inside one of the armored middle cars, Charles, the Prince of Wales, is taking his breakfast. He's dressed down in an open-collar white-and-burgundy striped shirt, blue cardigan and khaki trousers, and as I enter the cabin, his look of welcome is mixed with one of concern. "I do hope you managed to get some sleep," he says, motioning me to sit across from him. Gales and lashing rain had rolled in from the North Sea as we made our midnight departure from Perth, and the heir to the throne seems to be apologizing for turbulence in the realm. "Ghastly night," he says.
Freshly done up in blond wood with little ornamentation, the coach reflects a new reduced configuration aimed at cutting the train's operating cost. Part of royal downsizing? I ask. "Yes," he nods. "What you see is the anorexic British monarchy." 
 In a corner bookcase, there is a small vase of flowers and a picture of the Queen Mother, said to be Prince Charles's favorite member of the family. Earlier her two corgis, Dash and Rash, had taken their morning stroll through the carpeted corridors, friskily tugging at the leash held by her footman, Leslie Campbell.
The Prince's face is ruddy from a blustery weekend at his home on the Balmoral estate in Scotland, and gray is making a debonair debut in his thinning hair. His ears are large, as advertised, but they ride closer to his head and in happier proportion to it than cartoonists' pens would have you believe. He speaks so softly that I have to strain to hear him even in the stillness of the cabin, with its thick, bulletproof windows keeping out the clatter of our passage along England's northeastern coast. If voices came in colors, his would be the burnished amber of one of his favored Highland single malts.
Smartly turned out crewmen in navy blazers, charcoal gray trousers and black shoes shined to a military gloss place before the Prince a silver tray with small jars of preserves and honeys and a bowl of wheat germ and cereal grains, all of which meet his high threshold for unadulterated, healthful food. He reaches for a container of honey, opens it and spoons the golden spread directly into his mouth. I think I am observing royal prerogative.
"I actually don't eat very much at all," he says, confirming the warnings I had received minutes earlier from the butlers and security men in the mess car as they tucked into their heaping platefuls of eggs, tomatoes, mushrooms, sausage, bacon and toast. In the kind of jocular banter you'd expect from swabbies talking about a captain known to carry on in the wheelhouse, the men around the Prince made light fun of their boss, aping his plummy vowels, arched-brow hauteur and aristocratic mutter. Lee Dobson, the Prince's valet, entertained the crowd with stories of spending the entire weekend at an incline as he followed the Princely party on its shootings and hikes up and down the Scottish hills.
When he saw me summoned to join Charles in his private dining car, he elbowed his neighbors. "Hope you enjoy your fig," he said.
There is no mistaking the fact that the atmosphere around the Prince and his once-embattled retinue is assured and upbeat these days. Not long ago the most reviled member of the British royal family, Charles was able on his 50th birthday earlier this month to look back on a year in which he was liberated from the competition with Diana, the Princess of Wales, for attention and approval; was given credit previously denied him for being a sensitive parent to his two sons; was celebrated by the new Labor Government of Prime Minister Tony Blair for the pioneering social work his Prince's Trust has done; and was encouraged by significantly growing public endorsement of him as the next sovereign and of his mistress, Camilla Parker Bowles, as his private life companion and possible wife.
He has turned the most convulsive moment in his life -- the death in August 1997 of his former wife, Diana -- into an opportunity for staging his own revival and for staking a strong claim on the role of guiding the monarchy into the 21st century. His progress from royal problem child to royal eminence has freshened the image of the monarchy itself, casting upon its smudged face the bright reflection of his notion that the institution has a responsibility to consider the well-being of its poorest and most neglected subjects. Mutinous feelings in Britain toward the royals have subsided, and the major player in disarming the public has surprisingly been Prince Charles.
For a long time the percussive, single-syllable words like "twit," "wimp" and "prat" that Britons use to dress down their well-born often accompanied mention of his name. The product of an undemonstrative mother, a chastising father and the decidedly uncozy Windsor household, Charles suffered from self-doubt and appeared hesitant and distracted in the face of the burdensome demands of his awesome inheritance. The question he most commonly puts to people he encounters now on his official rounds -- "What do you do?" -- is one he might have best avoided years ago for fear someone might ask him back.
When he got around to doing something, he only made matters worse, uttering ill-thought-out and crudely stated condemnations of modern architecture, medicine and education. By the time Diana began attracting favorable attention for her visits to AIDS wards and refugee camps, Charles had marked himself as something of a young fogy, dismissing new approaches to old problems as "fashionable." Meanwhile he was conducting a personal life that became an ongoing tabloid saga complete with confessional television interviews and smutty tape recordings of stunningly graceless sexual small talk.
In the past month, however, newspaper and magazine articles and new books assessing him in connection with his birthday have portrayed a new-look prince and declared him an underacknowledged overachiever whose good works went unnoticed in the press onslaught on his shortcomings. Even critics have begun to turn the Prince into a character of almost heroic proportions.
Anthony Holden, a royal biographer considered hostile by the Prince's supporters and denied all cooperation for his new book, "Charles at Fifty," concluded that "the human qualities well known to his inner circle, for all the battering they took during the Diana years, have come back to the fore. If not entirely at peace with himself, he is more so with the world around him. Throw in the shrewdest advisers he has had since his youth, extending beyond his own office to the inner councils of Government, and you have a public figure suddenly and unexpectedly at the peak of his powers, bloodied but unbowed by his past, with cause for unwonted optimism about his future."
It has been a startling turnaround, one that Robert M. Worcester, the head of MORI, says is unprecedented in his career as Britain's leading pollster. "I have never measured a sharper drop in public opinion than the 82 percent to 41 percent fall from 1991 to 1996 in the number of people who believed he would do a good job as King," he said. "Change upward tends to be glacial while images fall like a stone, but his recovery has been even faster than his fall." Today, 63 percent of Britons think Charles would be a good king.
No wonder the Prince is radiating contentment this morning. "You know this train is very useful to me," he says. "I can get on board the night before, do some reading, get some sleep, and it's the only way I can get to so many places in a day."
The only way? I ask. What about a helicopter? The blue-eyed gaze that comes back invites me to cease being a bore and join in the sybaritic conspiracy.
I had been reminded several times of the privilege of riding the royal train. Aides to the Prince had told me that I was only the second reporter allowed aboard since its creation for the Queen's Silver Jubilee in 1977. They said it was such a break with protocol that they expected a hard time from the Queen when she found out. It was not the last time this day that I heard the Monarch referred to as a nuisance.
As the cranes of Newcastle's waterfront come up in the distance, the Prince rises. It's time for him to retreat to his bedroom to put on one of his razor-creased fitted double-breasted suits for the long day ahead of royal ribbon cuttings. The schedule calls for the Prince of Wales to spend the next seven hours opening a home for the aged, a glass museum, a job-training center and, most improbably, an oil rig. He inquires if I really mean to follow him around to every event. The hangdog look of sympathy seems to say, Why would anyone ever want to do it if he didn't have to?
There's nothing new about the Prince of Wales going off to lay cornerstones and plant trees. In 1997, he had 513 engagements like this. What is new is that he is no longer alone with his ceremonial shovel. People are paying attention, and they are doing so because the ideas of a man long associated with the country's past now seem very much a part of its future. Back in the staff mess car, one of Charles's aides confided that he believed the most significant factor in the changing fortunes of the Prince was the election in May 1997 of Tony Blair and the Labor Party: "Suddenly his views became part of the political language of this country."
It is a breathtaking fact that many of the reforms the Labor Government is pursuing -- getting private enterprise engaged in public service and opening up opportunities for young people, minorities and the unemployed -- are ones that have been undertaken for years by a member of the famously out-of-touch British monarchy. On issues like the environment, genetically modified food and organic farming, the Prince has even bolder prescriptions than the Government.
Where the Queen just this year rode in her first public taxi, walked into her first McDonald's and visited her first pub, Prince Charles has been tramping through housing projects for two decades. In 1976, he began a program that made loans available to young people whom banks wouldn't go near, and the idea is credited with having helped more than 40,000 people to start new businesses. (One of them is Jake Chessum, the photographer for this article, who told the Prince on meeting him in Newcastle that he had bought his first cameras with a $6,500 loan from the Prince's Youth Business Trust in 1990.)
Several people who run sections of the Prince's Trust said they know Charles was motivated to act in the 1980's by evidence that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's economic revolution was leaving Britain's poor unprotected and marginalized. "It wasn't that he used her name," said one executive close to the Prince. "He spoke out when it was very unfashionable to have these concerns, and he was the one who persuaded business it had to enter areas that the Government was abandoning."
Tom Shebbeare, the head of the Prince's Trust, said of Blair's policies, "A lot of what the Government's doing, to our delight, they really filched from us." Financed by the consolidation of three royal trusts and by contributions from corporations and individuals, the trust today manages an endowment of $125 million.
"He has been in more rough housing estates than most politicians I know," said Sir Peter Davis, group chief executive of Prudential Corporation PLC and chairman of the Prince's Business in the Community -- an organization designed to spark private-sector involvement in disadvantaged communities. "He demonstrated that he was ahead of his time in raising these issues."
Sir Peter is the embodiment of just how philosophically allied the Prince's charities and the Blairites are. Not only does he run one of the Prince's organizations, he also heads the Government's New Deal program. Designed to create jobs for 250,000 young unemployed people, the initiative is a key component of Blair's welfare-to-work strategy.
Blair's people have praised the Prince for his foresightedness, and the Prince has expressed his pleasure that Labor has found inspiration in his good works. One gleeful Labor official said, "He was a Blairite before Blair."
These chummy exchanges of mutual admiration have led Conservative politicians to complain that Charles is in danger of crossing constitutional boundaries barring political activity by royals. The Queen is not known to have any political viewpoints, and in her long years on the throne she has never been caught out expressing one. She and Prince Philip are reported by biographers to be put off by their eldest son's social activism in general and the perception that he could be playing favorites in Britain's public life.
The Prince has not responded to the grumbling in the House of Commons about his role, but he has long said the monarchy of the future should be "a contributing monarchy." In a letter to Shebbeare, the head of the trust, five years ago, he addressed the question, saying, "I have no 'political' agenda -- only a desire to see people achieve their potential." He reasoned that his ability to get attention made him "a catalyst to help produce a better and more balanced response to various problems."
The Prince has known the Prime Minister since 1990, when Blair was Labor's shadow employment secretary and took an interest in the work the Prince's Trust was doing in the area of youth employment. Their relationship was to deepen in the immediate aftermath of the death of Diana, as the royal family found itself tone-deaf to the sorrow and anger of the nation and looked to the newly triumphant Labor Government for help tuning in. Blair and the Prince spoke by phone during the flight Charles made to Paris to bring Diana's body back to Britain, and associates of the Prime Minister played a prominent role in planning the funeral and in encouraging the royal family to respond to the outpouring of grief. The Prince is the member of the family credited with convincing the palace that it was too remote, and much of his counsel came from Blair officials.
It is clear that while Blair has seized on some of the Prince's approaches to social problems, the Prince has learned to appreciate Blair's brand of political stagecraft. On the Prince's staff are none of the advisers who counseled him to confess his adultery in a 1994 television interview, a strategic decision he now regrets. While the Queen has kept her private secretaries for decades at a time, Charles has had six since 1985, a measure of his temperamental leadership. He has now settled down and reached out to the worlds of politics and entertainment for help. By design, his staff is no longer all male, all white, all Oxford- and Cambridge-educated. Often at odds with their more tradition-bound counterparts in Buckingham Palace, the Prince's people are busy putting forth their man as the voice of the monarchy's future, even going so far as to set up his own Web site -- www.princeofwales.gov.uk.
In the ongoing competition with Buckingham Palace, the Prince's staff is impatient with the creaking pace of change at royal headquarters. They dismiss the role of the Way Ahead group, the committee created to chart the royal family's path after the "annus horribilis" in 1992 -- a year dominated by a devastating fire at Windsor Castle and the collapse of three royal marriages. Made up of the Queen, Prince Philip, Princess Anne and the Princes Charles, Andrew and Edward, the group has been notable mostly for its lack of action. "It was very overblown in the early days," an aide to the Prince said. "He's the heir, and he's not really interested in what his sister and brothers think about it."
The person that friends and associates give the most credit to for the Prince's rapid rebound is his deputy private secretary in charge of communications, Mark Bolland, a 32-year-old Canadian-born Briton with degrees from York University and the University of Toronto. At 6 foot 4, the former marketing man quite literally looms over the Prince, who is barely 5 foot 10. Bolland has described his mission as convincing Britons that the heir to the throne is "a good bloke."
Bolland served for four years as director of the Press Complaints Commission, an independent organization that oversees the news media. During that time, he saw a lot of "brutally harsh" coverage of the Prince. "I think he was maligned and treated unfairly, and I hope in this job I can help him understand the modern media," Bolland says. "I believe in the institution, and he's going to be it. He's only going to survive if he can take the proper path from all the interference of recent years."
In a notable piece of modern-day networking, the Prince has hired the hot London public relations firm of Brown Lloyd James, whose partners come from backgrounds the monarchy has long held at a distance. A naturalized American from Liverpool, Peter Brown was one of the original managers of the Beatles and has used his New York base to represent the BBC, Christies, Andrew Lloyd Webber and other prominent people in British culture. Howell James was in charge of the political office at 10 Downing Street under Prime Minister John Major, and Sir Nicholas Lloyd was the editor of The Daily Express.
Perhaps most important, Bolland, the three partners and Tom Shebbeare, the chief executive of the trust, are all friends of Peter Mandelson, the Minister for Trade and Industry in Blair's Government and the chief architect, strategist and enforcer of the acutely image-conscious New Labor party.
The Prince's current honeymoon with the British press began after a simple act of reconciliation suggested by his new aides. For 10 years, he had not directed a personal word at any of the reporters covering him. Then, on a trip between South Africa and Swaziland last year, a shirt-sleeved Prince walked back to the economy section of the plane where the press was riding and struck up conversations. He captivated the surprised reporters with a few jokes on himself, and by the same afternoon The Evening Standard was on the streets of London with a front page saying, "Chattering Charles Plays Royal Tour Joker."
The charm offensive was on. Public appearances increased and Charles began to be seen at West End first nights, film openings, Spice Girl concerts -- in short, the circles where Diana once reigned. The usual titled guests at dinners at St. James's Palace and at Highgrove found themselves seated next to Charles's new friends, like Emma Thompson and Rowan Atkinson, whose comic creation Mr. Bean has come, like the Prince, to represent the lovable side of English awkwardness. The Sun, Britain's largest-selling tabloid and long a Charles tormentor, became the recipient of leaks from the Prince's office and made a rapid conversion to the rehabilitation cause. The Prince and his organic garden at Highgrove were lovingly chronicled in celebrity magazines like Hello! Charles took his sons to Vancouver, where they publicly frolicked in the caps of the Canadian Winter Olympics team. And, in a gesture interpreted as a truce, the Prince agreed to serve as patron for a new press ball.
At a birthday gala televised last weekend, the Prince himself became the star of the show, appearing in a skit with the actors Stephen Fry and Roger Moore. The scene was a restaurant, and look-alikes of Michael Jackson, Tina Turner, Madonna and Humphrey Bogart appeared on stage as Fry and Moore, the diners, tried unsuccessfully to guess who they were. Charles, an accomplished college actor at Cambridge, then walked on, playing a waiter with a cloth napkin slung over his forearm and a pen and pad at the ready. When the cheers died down, he recommended the organic vegetables and cookies made from the Highgrove granary. "They're damn good," he said. Moore pondered the Prince's performance. "I know who you're supposed to be, but you are going to have work on your voice a bit," he said to the laughing crowd.
The aides who have helped engineer the turnabout in public opinion are encouraged about the future. "We find doors flying open everywhere now where we had to really struggle before," one said. Gone are moments like the time in June 1997 when Tom Shebbeare called a press conference to announce an initiative for disadvantaged youth -- and no one came. It was the same day that Camilla Parker Bowles had a minor collision driving from her house in Wiltshire to his house at Highgrove, and the royal rat pack had gone there. How much have things changed? When the royal train pulled into Newcastle at 9:45 A.M., reporters from every major British newspaper were waiting on the platform.
Though the recognition of the Prince's pioneering accomplishments and the public sympathy for him as a single parent have given him new balance, Charles can still stumble over his bulky collection of resentments.
There is, first and foremost, the somewhat icy, always complicated relationship with his parents. On the train, our conversation at one point turned to Poundbury, the Prince's planned town of rusticated stonework homes, meandering lanes and market squares outside Dorchester in southwestern England that now has 142 houses up and occupied. While an institute and a magazine aimed at furthering his notion that modern architecture owes a debt to the past have foundered, Poundbury has overcome the ridicule that greeted it at its inception 10 years ago and obtained grudging approval from onetime critics.
The Prince expressed his bewilderment over the harsh reception it first got from the design establishment. "Amazing how I was rubbished for it, isn't it?" he said. He then betrayed a keener disappointment -- the lack of enthusiasm for it shown by the two people whose approval he has spent his life craving. The Queen and Prince Philip had recently paid a 20-minute visit to the site, he said. The narrative glance at the clock was not as gratuitous as it sounds. I had been told days earlier that he had erupted when he heard about the brevity of the tour, saying, "The project of my lifetime, and my parents give it 20 minutes of their time."
It is clear, too, that the Prince has not fully freed himself from the sense of anger he felt a year ago at being cast as a villain who betrayed a saint, a careless adulterer who married a virgin for dynastic reasons and then destroyed her emotionally. "You know the Prince thought that Diana was on a mission to destroy him," one courtier explained. He recalled a night in which Charles could talk of nothing else until the aide, a relative newcomer to the staff, said: "You can't keep going on like this. You must get on with your future." The Prince agreed that he was being "obsessive" but insisted on talking on. "Unless you hear what went on in the past," he said, "you won't understand how I am today."
How he is today, friends say, is a lot more pleasant than he used to be, and the behavior figures prominently in his rehabilitation. "He's actually doing the same things he did before," said a Prince's Trust executive, "but he is much more relaxed and confident that he can do things on his own. It helps not having someone out there saying, 'I can do that better than you can.' "
Of course, he is still far from taming his notorious moodiness or mastering his tantrums, but the best antidote to them, Camilla Parker Bowles, is more frequently at hand.
"He is a world-class, wall-to-wall whinger," one of his closest aides said, invoking the English word for whining that makes self-pity sound even more insufferable. A woman who heads up one of his charities looked aghast at the recollection of a moment when she lost patience with the Prince and apparently lost track of whom she was speaking to. "He does moan about so," she said. "One day I just said to him: 'Stop complaining. We all have problem parents.' "
At a dinner at his Highgrove estate in Gloucestershire one recent night, the Prince asked one of his guests, Trade Minister Mandelson, how his fellow cabinet members regarded him. Mandelson, who can be blunt, said that they all thought he was very hard-working and possessed a deep social conscience but that they all also agreed he felt too sorry for himself.
Shortly afterward, the Prince retreated to the front hall and sat uneasily in a chair, shuffling his feet about and looking wounded. He asked people around him if Mandelson was right. Camilla was dispatched to exercise the dust-yourself-off treatment that she is apparently often called upon to administer. "I don't think any of us can cope with you asking that question over and over again for the next month," she said. He looked up sheepishly. "Well then, how about for just the next 20 minutes?" he said.
This episode was related as an example of his self-deprecating humor, a potentially winning quality in someone who was raised on such privilege and at such a remove from normal life. As the whinging has declined, his friends say, his ability to make sport over his position and background have grown.
In the Swiss ski resort of Klosters last winter, he was walking one evening to the next-door chalet of his best friends Patti and Charles Palmer-Tomkinson, and the icy pavement was proving dangerously slippery. After several near spills, Charles grasped the arm of an aide. Wouldn't it have been more sensible for the Prince to have worn boots? the aide asked gingerly. Charles shot him an arch look. "In my family," he responded, "I was brought up to wear shoes in the ev 'ening."
On a weekend this fall, the telephone rang in Bolland's London apartment. The playful voice at the other end belonged to Charles, indulging the forbidden pleasure of picking up a phone while no one from the royal household was paying attention and placing a call himself. The Prince said he was sorry for bothering his aide at home. Then he asked eagerly if he was interrupting anything exciting. "Actually, I was emptying the dishwasher," Bolland replied. "Oh, yes," said the Prince. "And now I am supposed to say, 'What's that?' "
Associates of his say that life with Camilla -- referred to as "Mrs. P.B." in the Prince's office -- has reached the comfort level of a longtime stable marriage. She is essential to him and to his recovery, they all say in one way or another. Cmdr. Richard Aylard, his former private secretary, first coined the phrase "a nonnegotiable part of his private life" to describe her importance, and it is now a mantra among the Prince's aides and friends. One
person who's often with them said their association was "telepathic," with her sensing his moods and their consequences before Charles himself did.
The Queen has never dropped the objections to Camilla that she first had in the early 1970's, when she learned that her son was sleeping with the wife of Andrew Parker Bowles, then the commander of the Household Cavalry and holder of the royal title of Silver Stick in Waiting. She does not attend functions Camilla might be at. The Queen's private secretary, Sir Robert Fellowes, the husband of Diana's sister Jane and a starchy traditionalist, blames Camilla for wrecking the marriage and shaming the House of Windsor, and he has encouraged the Queen to persist in her snub.
Prince Charles's handlers loathe Sir Robert, who is retiring in February. And hopes for a suddenly better relationship with his successor, Sir Robin Janvrin, were dashed by an incident this summer. On a day when Prince William and Camilla were to have tea together in the Prince's living quarters in St. James's Palace, Sir Robin refused the Prince's invitation to be introduced to her, pleading the absence of any authorization by the Queen. Charles later asked friends how Sir Robin could have been so rude to him in his own house.
The Prince's managers are widely suspected of dribbling out the Prince's relationship with Camilla in order to gain public acceptance of it. "I promise you there is no intention, no plan, no plot, no conspiracy," said one of them, but the spigot, now that it is open, continues to water people's curiosity drop by timely drop.
In the run-up to his birthday, the Prince's image-shapers got overconfident and committed a tactical blunder by going so far as to deconstruct the myth of Diana. It was a miscalculation that ended up producing an impression that spin doctors in the Prince's office were spiraling out of control.
What led to the stir were reports arguing that Diana, far from being the victim of a feckless and unfeeling husband and his possessive mistress, was in fact the first to commit adultery and put the royal marriage at risk and that she later telephoned death threats to Camilla. These reports, based on information supplied by people around the Prince, also contended that the two young Princes had tired of the glamorous life that Diana introduced them to and preferred the warmth of the Windsor hearth. The Prince had to put out a statement, the first ever representing both him and Camilla, saying that they had provided no assistance to Penny Junor, the author of "Charles: Victim or Villain?" the biography that contained the most explicit charges.
In their more furtive days, Charles and Camilla would meet in a Welsh farmhouse owned by a former brother-in-law of Camilla's. But nowadays they spend nights together at his Highgrove estate and at York House, the self-contained five-bedroom section of St. James's Palace that he occupies. In September, they went on a weeklong Aegean cruise with four friends in a borrowed yacht and, though they succeeded in eluding photographers the whole time, the Prince's office freely confirmed the facts of the journey once word got out on their return.
"They are really able to be together for the first time, and they are still getting used to it," a person who sees them frequently said. "This week he'll be in London for three days, and she'll be in London for three days. That's a new thing for them."
Camilla is emphatic in saying she wants no part of Charles's life of public duty and has no desire to be Queen. She even revels in her status of royal mistress. In one of her earliest meetings with the Prince more than 25 years ago, she pointed out to him that her great-grandmother Alice Keppel and his great-great-grandfather Edward VII had been lovers. Today she often wears Keppel's dress jewelry and has a portrait of her ancestor in a prominent spot on the wall of her home in Wiltshire. According to guests at a dinner in St. James's Palace in October, Camilla was fascinated to meet Brooke Astor because as a child the New York philanthropist had met Keppel.
Camilla's home, a former mill house in Chippenham, 17 miles from Highgrove, is described as studiously untidy, with muddy Wellingtons in the foyer, brimming ashtrays on fine furniture pieces and untended tears in the carpet. Friends say it perfectly reflects her lack of self-consciousness. Britain's tabloids have been less kind to her inattention to appearances. They have savaged her as slovenly and witchlike, and one recently pictured her alongside a horse and asked readers to choose which one they would rather go to bed with. She has remained resolutely silent.
She has less interest than the Prince in books and classical music, but they share a love of riding, hunting, gardening and painting watercolors, and they break each other up with bathroom humor, something that always seems to be good for a laugh among the finished products of British upper-class schools. Both also like to drive at faith-inspiring speeds around the hedgerowed back lanes of Wiltshire and Gloucestershire.
The subject of marriage remains unresolved and has been put off for the moment. "They actually talk about it less now than they did two years ago," an aide to the Prince said. Their greatest dread, he admitted, is that it will become a matter for tabloid speculation. "They are horrified at the prospect of headlines like, 'Show Her You Love Her, Charlie.' " Asked if they were simply playing for time while public accommodation with their partnership grew, the aide reasoned, "We know that a Prince of Wales with a girlfriend is fine, but a King with a girlfriend is tricky."
If they ever did decide to marry, they would have to contend with the Church of England, which has frowned on the prospects of the heir to the throne marrying a divorced woman. There are signs, though, that the relationship may be gaining acceptance in the higher ranks. The Right Rev. Richard Harries, the Bishop of Oxford and the head of the church's Board of Social Responsibility, told the BBC this month that "the fact that they can get some support and mutual encouragement from one another and clearly have a very deep relationship, I think, deserves understanding and compassion." The Bishop of Durham, the Right Rev. Michael Turnbull, went a step further, saying it would be "more desirable morally" for the couple to marry than to stay in their present state.
Charles, who is a regular churchgoer and prays daily, has often spoken of his interest in Islam and other Eastern religions and of his contempt for the latent anti-Catholicism in the original establishment of the Church of England. He has suggested he might want to change the oath to make the King not the defender of the faith but simply the defender of faith, thereby disestablishing the Church of England. Though the opportunity to marry Camilla free of religious disapproval would not be the motivation for such a move, it would be a result of it.
With his mother, 72, in excellent health and her mother going strong at 98, there is cause to wonder if Charles will ever become King and what he can do in the present post as his tenure stretches to a fourth decade. He became the Prince of Wales in 1969. He has never lost interest in becoming King, despite reports to the contrary, but he did realize a year ago that the public had little interest in his becoming King. Hence the decision to mount a campaign to regain their trust.
His aides refer to his becoming King as "moving up to No. 1"; Charles himself will allude to it by saying, "When I will be doing my mother's job." The Queen increasingly lets him represent the monarchy out of England as he did in Hong Kong in June 1997 for the turnover of the colony to China and in Omagh in August after a bomb devastated the center of that Northern Ireland town.
"The Queen quite likes being Queen, and she doesn't give up much," said one of the Prince's men, a little testily. As the Prince has set out to define himself as someone not hostage to encrusted tradition, tensions between the staffs at Buckingham and St. James's Palace are on the rise, with the Prince's people favoring more manipulation of information to benefit their royal client and an aggressive, open and direct communication with the public. "We believe the Prince is the voice of what the monarchy is going to be in the 21st century," one aide said firmly.
Is it possible to imagine what King Charles III would be like? "When he moves up to No. 1," an aide answered, "he obviously takes on responsibilities and sheds others. As King he can't run around and lecture everybody. But then, knowing him, he probably will."
Charles already has some housekeeping changes in mind. He would not live in Buckingham Palace, turning it instead into the monarchy's London office while making Windsor Castle in suburban Berkshire his residence in the capital. And he would try to readjust the financing of the monarchy to reduce the drain on the taxpayer and increase his own financial independence. Highgrove, St. James's Palace and the Duchy of Lancaster lands would go to his son William when he becomes the next Prince of Wales.
Mention the top job, and the Prince's staff talk in the future, not the conditional tense, about when, not if. They are confident to the point of arrogance that their once-belittled man can bring stature to the post. "It will be nice to have a King who's thoughtful," one said. "We haven't had one for a while."
Just a year ago, pollsters found many Britons who thought Charles should plan on stepping aside and letting William succeed his grandmother Elizabeth to the throne. All such talk has ended now, with William left free to have as normal an adolescence as an heir apparent dressed in a morning coat and striped trousers at Eton can have.
He will assume no royal duties until at least six years from now, when he graduates from university. It is not known whether Charles discusses that future with his son, but it is evident that Charles's chief concern is that his son not be subjected to the ascetic rigors of his own childhood. At the same age, Charles was sent for toughening up to the all-boys Gordonstoun school in Scotland, with its regimen of bullying, cold showers and barechested morning runs. He hated it and begged his parents to let him come home. Years later, he got verbal revenge, recalling Gordonstoun as "Colditz in kilts."
William, by contrast, is said to like school. In a series of written answers to questions on his 16th birthday last June from the Press Association, Britain's domestic news agency, William emerged as a youth mature beyond his age but with the normal teen-age enthusiasms for pop music and fast food intact after a tumultuous year that forced him into a public role long before anyone intended.
As a new century approaches, England is stepping out smartly, its quickened pace symbolized more by digital pulses, darting cursors and techno-music than by the stately swagger of the British Monarchy. Yet there is hardly anyone in this toe-tapping population who wants to throw the royals out of the advancing columns.
Britons can satirize the Windsors, vilify them, make them live in smaller houses, force them to pay taxes -- whatever; the fact is, they want to keep them. That's what 73 percent of the population said in the most recent poll on the subject, and the number is on the rise with the nudge the new-and-improved Prince is applying.
Recent years have shown that no matter how badly the family behaves, in Britain no republican movement arises to turn the royals out. Mention the downsized monarchies in Scandinavia and the Netherlands, and people here talk sneeringly of "kings on bicycles."
Most members of Tony Blair's self-described "radical" government are not ashamed to call themselves monarchists. The same sentiments greeted the Prince everywhere he went on the day I followed him -- from the faces of children waving their Union Jacks on the Newcastle docks to the eager handshakes of nervous students at a job-training center to the preening of local officials, done up in sashes and gold chains of office, at a new museum in Sunderland.
The popularity of the monarchy itself in Britain has recuperated scarcely a year after it was discredited for its crabbed response to the death of Diana and during a year in which the country was being transformed by a new administration with a mission to "rebrand" Britain and discard outdated symbols of its imperial past.
How can a government bent on "modernizing" Britain -- the word appears more than any other in the voluminous literature put out by the Blair Government -- justify its enthusiasm for something as antique as the British monarchy? Mandelson, the Blair cabinet member who is on the closest terms with the Prince, said there was no contradiction. "I think you can both modernize an institution and respect its traditions," he said. "You can modernize whilst preserving if you question some of the more archaic practices and if you encourage the royal family who are the tenants of this institution to be outward looking and up with the times without losing their dignity."
On his day visiting the Northeast, Charles ended up leaving a trail of shiny new plaques behind him in the cities of Newcastle and Sunderland. He is informal and chatty in his public appearances, accomplished at small talk and surprisingly tactile for a man with a reputation for being chilly and distant.
People are courteous and decorous but not deferential. They tend to stick a "sir" into their comments to him, though there is no established requirement to do so. Speakers presenting him will always refer to him as "Your Royal Highness." In the long day of official visits in which he greeted hundreds of people, only one woman bowed at his approach, and he used a handshake to hoist her quickly back into upright position.
A daily exerciser, he's physically fit and agile as he moves through the crowded spaces of his public life. His tailoring is a lot bolder than he is, giving him a British bounder jauntiness that disguises his shyness and isolation. As the afternoon wore on in Sunderland, the Prince began to sag, his left leg bent outward and his right hand shoved into his side jacket pocket. It was a stance that recalled the days when he was mocked for being innocent, weak and indecisive, the boy who on bellying up to a pub bar for the first time famously ordered a cherry brandy. In his new made-over state, however, the posture appears more as a mark of winsome vulnerability.
Where royals once aimed at intimidating their subjects, he devotes himself to being ingratiating to them. He often undercuts a statement that might sound too regal and commanding with a phrase like, "whatever that means" or "if I may say so." He appears to invite people to share in the preposterousness of much of the ceremony he is obliged to conduct. "Now you may not think it takes great skill to do this," he told a group of trainees in Newcastle as he eyed yet another velvet curtain covering yet another plaque, "but it takes a lot of training. I've served a long apprenticeship, and I think I've seen this type before."
He told them of a large drapery in Cairo that wouldn't budge even with two people adding their muscle to his. All part of the daily challenges lurking in the small print of a modern Prince's job description, he seemed to be saying. Then he stepped up to the task at hand and announced with brio, "I will now perform this with immense skill though I have no idea where it will end up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Jake Chessum); Heirs affectionate: Princes Charles and William in an exchange rarely seen between Charles and his own parents. (David Dyson/CP/Retna); F.O.C.: Camilla Parker Bowles; Prime Minister Tony Blair. (Alspha/Globe Photos; John Stillwell/Pa); In a skit with Stephen Fry and Roger Moore. (Stefan Rousseau/Pa); The people's Prince: Charles was enthusiastically received during a recent tour of the Northeast by Britons who are not only his future subjects but also his present-day fans. (Jake Chessum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); NORTHEAST USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (88%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); NORTHEAST USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); EATING DISORDERS (73%); HAIR LOSS (73%); NUTRITION (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%); 

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (93%); CAMILLA, DUCHESS OF CORNWALL (57%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



549 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2089 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Grim, Shocking, Didactic, a New New Wave Rolls In

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LOPATE; Phillip Lopate's collection of film criticism, "Totally, Tenderly, Tragically," has just been published by Anchor Books.

 BODY:
THESE days a mood of optimism and brash confidence has once again taken hold of French filmmaking. A new generation of films -- "My Sex Life," "Irma Vep," "The Dreamlife of Angels" and "I Stand Alone" -- is causing an international stir with its uninhibited depictions of contemporary society, and taking festival prizes and even finding American distribution. Some are calling it the new New Wave, the Next Wave or the Re-New Wave; others, more skeptically, a hype-created ripple.
The original Nouvelle Vague, or New Wave, of the 1960's looks, in retrospect, like a miracle, with Jean-Luc Godard, Francois Truffaut, Eric Rohmer, Claude Chabrol, Alain Resnais, Louis Malle, Jacques Rivette, Agnes Varda and Jacques Demy all re-inventing cinema as free expression. Even if such a national renaissance cannot expect to be repeated in a half-century, there is no question that French filmmaking is undergoing a resurgence. 
 The old New Wave was a band of brothers: Parisian film-critics-turned-directors who started out as friends and collaborators (whatever fallings-out later occurred). But the current crop of auteurs tends to be more fragmented and tribal. To oversimplify: one tribe (Arnaud Desplechin, Olivier Assayas, Mathieu Amaric) consists of Parisian, largely Jewish, intellectuals making realistic, urbane, analytical films about the lives of graduate students, wannabe writers and professionals. Another tribe (Erick Zonca, Gaspar Noe, Mathieu Kassovitz, Bruno Dumont) focuses more somberly and often angrily on the working class -- dropout youths from the provinces or the housing project neighborhoods or suburbs, who either get into trouble or get trapped on the assembly line.
Perhaps the most gifted of the lot is Arnaud Desplechin. His first feature, "La Sentinelle" (released here last month), was a fascinatingly layered drama about a medical student finding a severed head; his attempt at identifying it leads to a hornet's nest of issues about loyalty and politics at the end of the cold war. Besides writing extraordinarily eloquent dialogues, Mr. Deplechin is a stickler for physical gestures and will film multiple takes until he gets exactly the right shrug or cigarette angle he is looking for. His second feature -- and so far the masterpiece of the new New Wave -- is "My Sex Life (or How I Got Into an Argument)," a three-hour, richly novelistic comedy about several brainy, competitive, neurotic philosophers. The charmingly hangdog Mathieu Amalric plays Paul, a perpetual student who can't seem to finish his doctorate and keeps vacillating among three women. Mr. Amalric, whom the New York Times film critic Janet Maslin described as "his generation's Jean-Pierre Leaud," projects a shy, likable warmth, self-deprecating intelligence and decency even when he is playing lecherous Peter Pan characters who resist growing up. (Mr. Amalric's own feature, "Eat Your Soup," was praised by Godard as the best film he'd seen in years.)
Fellow filmmakers were drawn to him. "I think it's because I wasn't an actor at the start that I got used so much; I know I have very little range," Mr. Amalric said in New York recently, with a puckish smile. "I mostly work for filmmakers who speak in the first person, and who can imagine me as their alter ego."
Where did this "first person" style come from? One of the less desirable effects of the original New Wave's aura was its tendency to eclipse the very talented generation of filmmakers that immediately followed. Maurice Pialat, Andre Techine, Chantal Akerman, Bertrand Tavernier, Jean Eustache, Philippe Garrel, Benoit Jacquot and Jacques Doillon, all labored in the shadow of the New Wave's glamour, creating a daring, often brilliant body of work without ever achieving name art-house status. But the personal, intransigently marginal filmmaking of (especially) Mr. Eustache, Mr. Garrel, Ms. Akerman and Mr. Doillon had a greater influence on the younger filmmakers than did their New Wave elders.
For instance, Mr. Eustache's "Mother and the Whore" (1973), a three-hour film about an overeducated, underachieving guy torn between two women, has haunted much of the French cinema that followed, setting a reproachful standard for honesty and intensity. Its archetypal French film plot, of extracting oneself from an old love and immersing oneself in a new, had an obvious influence on Mr. Deplechin's "My Sex Life" and Mr. Garrel's "Birth of Love." Speaking from the other camp, Gaspar Noe has said: "I love Eustache. He came from the lower class, and he had some anger, something existentialist, almost Dostoyevskian, that is totally missing in the other French directors."
The New Wave opened the door to a fresher, more casual filmmaking approach: real locations, improvisations, jump-cuts, hand-held camera, self-reflexive distancing jokes. Today's younger filmmakers take this vocabulary as a matter of course; their shocks come from elsewhere.
Gaspar Noe's "I Stand Alone" is an act of aggression against audiences: its protagonist, an unemployed butcher, kicks his pregnant wife in the stomach and either slits his daughter's throat (or fantasizes doing so) while spewing racist, homophobic, incestuous thoughts on the soundtrack. All in the service of what the filmmaker calls "a cinema of catharsis." Yet this brutality is undercut by jarring sound effects, supergraphic titles and a sly, over-rhetorical expressionism. Mr. Noe says that the deadpan comedy in Leonard Kastle's 1970 cult classic, "The Honeymoon Killers," served as his model. A slight, polite, head-shaven young man, Mr. Noe was delighted that a man fainted at this year's Toronto Film Festival screening, and chagrined that the New York Film Festival audience seemed to take his shock treatment in stride. Callowly provocative as his worldview sometimes seems, he has a filmmaker's instinctive touch: a genius for arresting compositions and poetically grim locations.
Mr. Noe professes little use for the films of his contemporaries Mr. Assayas and Mr. Desplechin, much less Mr. Rohmer, with their (to his mind) privileged, boringly bourgeois characters. He much prefers the stark, harsh portrait of a racist delinquent in Bruno Dumont's "Life of Jesus," which won le Prix Jean Vigo for best first feature in 1997, or Mathieu Kassovitz's lacerating if sophomoric "Hate," about disaffected multicultural youth, or this year's surprise debut hit Erick Zonca's "Dreamlife of Angels," which follows the dead-end lives of two young working-class women. "Lumpen types are more naked, you can see their scars more easily. I don't think I could ever shoot a movie about high society," says Mr. Noe.
Oliver Assayas, at 43 the veteran of the Parisian group, rolls his eyes at Noe's comments; he's heard it all before. "I respect his and his friends' filmmaking, but what I don't like is their saying that the reality they're depicting is the only reality. I don't like the sanctimonious aspect of their discourse. To my mind, modern alienation, the pain of everyday life, the lack of meaning, is as strong and disturbing for the petit bourgeoisie as for the working class."
Mr. Assayas has evoked that pain most powerfully in his 1994 film "Cold Water," about middle-class youth in the 70's who lash out at inner emptiness with drugs, stealing and self-destructive behavior. The remarkable 20-minute party scene in which they trash a suburban home is one of the apotheoses of recent French cinema, and a triumph of Mr. Assayas's patient, observantly mobile camera. He followed it up with the comic, wildly satiric "Irma Vep" (1996), starring the Hong Kong actress Maggie Cheung, about a film production that also gravitates toward chaos.
But in his most recent film, the soon-to-be-released "Late August, Early September," Mr. Assayas opts for a more thoughtful, mature focus, as he charts a circle of friends turning 40 and facing career disappointments, aging and death. There is nothing "privileged" or "safe" about the raw feelings and economic struggles of this group on the precipitous verge of middle age, still trying to construct authentic selves.
An important filmmaker who bridges the Parisian and the proletarian group is Claire Denis. She is a good friend of Mr. Assayas, and her movies (like "No Fear, No Die" and "I Can't Sleep") treat the problems of African guest-workers or Algerian immigrants. In these subtle, empathetic films, Ms. Denis uncovers the growing pains of a new, multicultural French society, without the blunt didacticism of other, politically progressive filmmakers who are trying to speak out against the National Front's brand of racism.
Issues of class, cinematic style and genre can't help intersecting. The bruised, proletariat characters in last year's "Life of Jesus" -- as inarticulate as cows in the field -- are served well by a bleakly minimalist Bressonian style. Paradoxically the audience for such movies is almost entirely the educated middle class. On the other hand, the film theorist Stanley Cavell once observed that one of the reasons the characters in witty talking comedies were nearly all middle-class was that the middle class had the leisure to converse. Another key dividing line in French cinema today is the degree to which the pervasiveness of American filmmaking is resisted or embraced. A few years back, even as the French film industry began to speak out against the market domination of Hollywood, many French film school graduates became enamored of the jazzy rhythms and darkly smirking attitudes of Quentin Tarrantino, David Lynch and other American independent filmmakers. As one of these graduates, Gaspar Noe, said, "I feel more in common with Todd Haynes's 'Velvet Goldmine' or Todd Solondz's 'Happiness' than I do with most French filmmakers." His new motion picture, "Enter the Void," will be shot in English.
His friend Mathieu Kassovitz has also moved, temporarily, to Hollywood and is trying to mount an English-language production. The Parisian tribe of Mr. Deplechin and Mr. Assayas would seem to be clinging to a more self-consciously French style, with their slower, talkier, more character-driven and nuanced chamber dramas.
The tension between the two esthetics is hilariously sent up in Mr. Assayas's "Irma Vep," when a young French journalist interviews Maggie, the beautiful Hong Kong actress who is about to star in an art-film remake of the 1915-16 classic "Les Vampires." The journalist says he can't stand these precious French art films; the only motion pictures that are truly alive are the Hong Kong and Hollywood action flicks. His harangue is actually a paraphrase of opinions expressed by Mathieu Kassovitz in an interview.
But when I asked Mr. Assayas whom he was satirizing he said: "Myself! He's like a monstrous version of myself as a young man. I began in film criticism, I wrote the issue on Hong Kong movies for Cahiers du Cinema and then I found, to my horror, that people were using Hong Kong action films to trash the values of the other moviemakers whom I loved -- like Bergman and Rohmer."
MEANWHILE, most of the original New Wave directors are still alive and working, though their avuncular expressions no longer shake the world as they did when they were Young Turks. Mr. Rohmer's most recent, "Tale of Autumn," is the wise, delicately witty work of a septuagenarian; Mr. Resnais's latest, "Same Old Song," is sublimely mellow, melancholy, lyrical; Mr. Godard continues to stretch the boundaries between fiction and essay-film with his video series, "Histoire(s) du Cinema." The patriarchs are busy commenting, kibitzing, appreciating (and sometimes, no doubt, wishing ill to) the younger filmmakers who have inherited their mantle, and who basically ignore them.
Both the new Parisian and the provincial-working-class camps have surprisingly much in common: a sexual frankness; an emotional grittiness; an openness to Cassavetes-inspired, informal camera work, a resistance to the frothy lure of "Gallic charm," which many Americans still expect from French movies. France has continuously been one of the great national cinemas -- which means that at no time in the last hundred years have impressive movies not been made there. But American audiences don't always get the chance to see French quality films because of the vagaries of distribution.
During the 80's, there was a near-blackout; now, thanks partly to the promotional hype surrounding this new New Wave, that situation may be rectified. If so, it is hype in a worthy cause.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative of the new New Wave are Arnaud Desplechin's "La Sentinelle," above, with Emmanuel Salinger and Erick Zonca's "Dreamlife of Angels" with Elodie Bouchez, left, and Natacha Regnier. (Sony Pictures Clas-sics Bouchez , Strand Releasing Salinger )(pg. 15); Olivier Assayas, center, part of France's new New Wave, on the set of "Paris at Dawn" with Jean-Pierre Leaud and Judith Godreche. (The Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MY SEX LIFE (MOVIE); IRMA VEP (MOVIE); DREAMLIFE OF ANGELS, THE (MOVIE); I STAND ALONE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: SEX LIFE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); COLD WAR (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: LOPATE, PHILLIP MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



550 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
A Searching Journey Into the Heart of Brazil

BYLINE: By LAURA WINTERS; Laura Winters writes about arts and entertainment here and abroad.

 BODY:
ONE morning in late 1996, the Brazilian director Walter Salles was waiting for a flight in Rio de Janeiro when he was approached by a 9-year-old shoeshine boy. At the time, Mr. Salles was preparing to shoot his third feature film, "Central Station," the tale of an older woman and a boy who meet at Rio's train station and then strike out on a journey into the hinterlands to find the boy's father.
Fernanda Montenegro, Brazil's doyenne of stage and film, had agreed to play the woman, Dora, but Mr. Salles had still not found anyone to play Josue, the child. "In one full year we had tested 1,500 boys," he said. "I was getting desperate." 
 The shoeshine boy, Vinicius de Oliveira, had other concerns, however. "It was raining that day, and I wasn't making any money," he recalled, speaking through an interpreter at the Toronto Film Festival. "I couldn't shine Walter's shoes because he was wearing sneakers, but I asked if he could lend me some money so I could eat and I would pay him back. He told me, 'I'll give you the money to buy a sandwich, but you also have to do a screen test for me.' "
When Vinicius finally showed up for the test, he brought his friends with him, "the entire fraternity of shoeshine boys from the airport," Mr. Salles said, laughing. He chose Vinicius for the role because, he said, "I was looking for a boy who knew what the battle for survival was, but who had not lost his innocence in doing so.
"I cannot even say that I found Vinicius. It's more honest to say that he found me."
The story of how "Central Station" was made, over a vast territory, with a small budget and crew and many novice collaborators, embodies the theme of the film itself: the triumph of steadfastness over adversity. Both a portrait of present day Brazil and a two-person drama, "Central Station," which opened on Friday, manages to be intimate and epic, local and universal.
"One day I woke up with this idea of a film about a quest," said Mr. Salles, 42. "It was the search for a father that a kid had never met, the search of an old woman for the feelings that she had lost and the search somehow for a certain country that was not the country I was living in anymore."
Mr. Salles's work is informed by the search for identity, both on a personal and national level, a concern stemming largely from his own background. Born in Brazil to a banking family, he spent part of his childhood in France and the United States where his father was a diplomat. When he returned to Brazil, he eventually decided to become a documentary filmmaker.
This combination of an outsider's perspective and an insider's understanding has shaped Mr. Salles's work. "I think the fact that I have been raised in several different countries has given me both a sense of continuous exile and a desire to understand my own culture," he said recently in New York, speaking in fluent English.
The dark-haired Mr. Salles, who has kind eyes and a ready laugh, is both warm and disarmingly modest. "When you come from a privileged part of Brazilian society, as I do, you have to opt either to be part of that culture of indifference or to understand what the country really is," he said.
His movie comes at a time when Brazilian cinema is once again flourishing. After a period of forced inactivity in the early 1990's, when the Government of President Fernando Collor de Mello froze individual bank accounts and shut down the state film agency, film production has risen to approximately 40 films a year.
But the reality of everyday life that "Central Station" depicts is harsh. In the film, Dora is a bitter woman who makes her living in Rio's Central Station, writing letters for illiterate people. She takes their money but discards the letters. One day she writes a letter for a mother and her little boy (Vinicius de Oliveira). When the mother is killed in an accident outside the station, Dora tries to sell the boy for adoption. Realizing that she has instead sold him to a sinister organization in which he may come to harm, she rescues the boy and the two set out on a bus trip to find his father.
For Mr. Salles, Dora is the epitome of modern Brazil, with its "culture of cynicism." But as Dora grudgingly develops a bond with the boy "she begins to understand that the boy's route and the boy's ordeal are comparable to her own," he said.
The growing friendship between these two -- more comradely than mother-son -- is, for Mr. Salles, a symbol of a Brazil where solidarity and compassion may be buried but are still present. His film is not utopian, but it celebrates the diversity both of the land and of what Mr. Salles calls the "human geography" that Dora and Josue encounter on their journey.
When the screenplay of "Central Station," based on an idea of Mr. Salles's and written by Joao Emanuel Carneiro and Marcos Bernstein, won a prize sponsored by the Sundance Institute and the Japan Broadcasting Corporation in early 1996, it attracted the attention of Arthur Cohn, the Swiss independent producer who has won five Academy Awards (one for Vittorio De Sica's "Garden of the Finzi-Continis").
LIKE De Sica, Walter's approach is humanistic," said Mr. Cohn. "De Sica taught me that there were four main points to making significant films. One was to cast actors who are right for the part, not just those with big names. Two was to shoot the film on authentic locations. Three was that sex, violence or special effects are not necessary unless they're intrinsic to the story." He smiled. "Four was not to listen to everybody's advice, but to follow your intuition."
With Mr. Cohn as producer, and with his principal cast finally in place Mr. Salles started the collaborative rehearsal process he had favored with his second film, "Foreign Land" (1995). "It's a work almost like that of theater," said Ms. Montenegro, 69, in New York. "For two months we sat around a table, reading and discussing the script."
The long preparation allowed Mr. Salles to move quickly and to improvise once filming began in November 1996. During the filming of Ms. Montenegro's scenes in the railroad station, several passersby took her to be an actual letter-writer and asked her to write letters for them, scenes that made it into the movie. In following the journey of Dora and Josue, Mr. Salles had to move his team from Rio to remote regions of northeast Brazil, to the states of Bahia and Pernambuco. "The transport from one place to another sometimes took three days on dirt roads," said Mr. Salles. "It was like being in a circus for several weeks."
Nor were conditions easy, due to the extreme heat and the poverty of the villages where Mr. Salles was filming. Yet the welcome that his crew received allowed the unforeseen to occur, as in a scene where Dora and Josue come upon a religious pilgrimage in full swing. Mr. Salles had the actual pilgrims recreate this candlelight vigil.
Mr. Salles is a largely self-taught filmmaker. After studying history and economics in college in Brazil, he attended only one year of film school, at the University of Southern California, before returning to Rio in 1981 to make documentaries.
His move toward feature films was gradual. In 1989, he directed "Exposure," starring Peter Coyote and based on the Brazilian writer Rubem Fonseca's novel "High Art." "Foreign Land," about two young Brazilians bereft in Lisbon, delved into the themes of physical and spiritual voyage and of loss. "Sometimes I am asked why I was so pessimistic in 'Foreign Land' and why I open the possibility of optimism with 'Central Station,' " Mr. Salles said. "But the films portray different moments of Brazilian reality."
He paused. "When you see films today, it seems that most of the characters endure a situation they cannot control," he said. "Here I wanted to show that tough as life may be, it can be possible to transcend this initial adversity."
That hopeful message may explain the widespread appeal of "Central Station." The film has been a big success in Brazil, where it has been seen by more than a million viewers, but it also had positive audience response at the Sundance, Toronto and Berlin film festivals. "During the screenings we held in Toronto, I saw tears rolling down people's faces," said Ramiro Puerta, the programmer for Latin American and Spanish films in Toronto.
As the film opens around the world, Mr. Salles's own life these days resembles a road movie. But even in the wake of "Central Station's" success, he has no plans to relocate from Rio -- where he lives in a forested area outside the city with his six large dogs -- or to change his thematic pursuits.
With Daniela Thomas, a co-director of "Foreign Land," Mr. Salles has written and directed a short feature called "Midnight," and he will work again with Arthur Cohn on two films still being written.
Embarking on these projects, Mr. Salles seems to want to explore further the need for connection -- whether between individuals or between peoples -- that "Central Station" embraces. " 'Central Station' is much more about brotherhood than it is about a specific country," he said. "Even as an artist, you need to know that what you do is part of a larger whole. You need to be part of a dialogue." He smiled. "In Brazil, we have this expression: 'One bird alone does not announce the spring.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Salles directing Fernanda Montenegro, left, and Vinicius de Oliveira. (Michel Chasles/Sony Pictures Classics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CENTRAL STATION (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (74%); FRANCE (64%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (74%); FRANCE (64%); CANADA (56%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); FESTIVALS (70%); 

PERSON: WINTERS, LAURA; SALLES, WALTER; DE OLIVEIRA, VINICIUS WALTER SALLES (96%); VINICIUS DE OLIVEIRA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



551 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2594 words

HEADLINE: Growing Pains;
The Midtown Direct Line, a Victim of Its Own Success, Leaves Riders Grumbling About the Rush-Hour Madness

BYLINE: By ANDREA KANNAPELL 

 BODY:
ON Monday mornings, when the 8:09 Midtown Direct rolls out of the neat brick station in the upscale suburb of Summit, there are still a few open seats. Three stops and 11 minutes later, when the train, New Jersey Transit No. 6620, leaves Maplewood, suited bodies cover every bit of brown vinyl upholstery, filling even the least desired seats in the middle of the bench. Passengers try to read their papers standing; some overflow into the vestibules, those forbidden areas between the cars. Even the conductors, who greet people with compelling geniality, as if desperate to maintain morale, sometimes just give up.
"I can't tell you how many times this happens," said Susan Taylor, the owner of an advertising agency, waving her ticket in vain at the conductor's retreating back. 
 Forget the standstills at the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels, the blockages on the George Washington Bridge that make the New Jersey commute into Manhattan notorious. Mass transit, once heralded as the solution to the rush-hour nightmare, now offers its own brand of misery.
From the tedium of finding a parking space at the station, to trains so crowded that passengers cannot even get on board, to domino-effect delays, to the dangerous jams at Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station when a trainload of rush-hour commuters glacially makes its way along the crowded platform to a few narrow stairways or idled escalators, this is the new model of the commute. Its greenest performers, the 6,000 morning rush-hour riders on the Midtown Direct -- in operation since July 1996 -- are already labeling it the "Sardine Scene" and the "Cattle Call." Seasoned veterans, the 9,900 on the North Jersey Coast line and the 21,000 on the Northeast Corridor line, long ago became inured.
Over the last 32 years, the state has pulled together a confusing jumble of bankrupt train lines into a statewide commuter rail network that collects more than 52 million fares a year, a system that is lauded as a national model of mass transit.
Indeed, N.J. Transit has been boasting in recent weeks that for the third time in five years, it was cited by the American Public Transit Association for outstanding achievement. Yet in mass transportation's equivalent of the adage that no good deed goes unpunished, the rail system is choking on its rush-hour passengers.
"Passengers want to know, when am I going to get a seat, and why are there these delays?" said a conductor, who, like many N.J. Transit employees interviewed for this article, insisted on anonymity. "But you think it's bad now? Just wait."
The Midtown Direct crush was made possible by the $69 million Kearny connection, which allowed Morris and Essex trains to head directly into Manhattan instead of leaving riders at the PATH connection in Hoboken.
Major improvements underway for decades will go into effect over the next few years, increasing by thousands the numbers of riders. Simple population growth will add even more. But the rail tunnel under the Hudson River built early in the century -- one tunnel with two tracks -- can handle only about 20 trains an hour, and Pennsylvania Station is already near capacity at more than 800 trains a day. The station suffers vicious cycles of delays that start with a minor switching problem or a train running slightly behind schedule.
And that is not all. It was the decline of freight rail in the face of the mighty truck that cleared the state's tracks for commuter traffic in the first place. Now that commuter service is blossoming, a long-expected renaissance of rail freight is about to arrive with the takeover of Conrail by CSX and Norfolk Southern.
ALAN PISARSKI, a transit researcher, said that New Jersey Transit's problems had no parallel. New York City's mass transit has also seen demand rise, largely because of the success of the discounts possible with the MetroCard. But that, he pointed out, is in an enormous city. "On suburban lines," he said, "it's really extraordinary."
Transportation systems have had different definitions of success over the last 30 years, Mr. Pisarski said. "For airlines, it has been growing fast enough to keep pace with demand," he said. "But in rail, it was cutting supply down to match demand." So N.J. Transit's boom "is not unusual," he added, "it's unheard of."
The railroad now carries about 94,000 roundtrip passengers a day, about 65,000 of them during the peak travel hours. Only a few of the trains that operate at peak periods suffer terrible crowding, and the transit system hopes that people will spread themselves out more evenly. For instance, on the Midtown Direct, there are 7,000 seats available in the morning rush, and 6,000 riders. But the empty seats are clustered in the early and late runs. The most packed Midtown Direct train, which departs Dover at 7 A.M. and is supposed to arrive at Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station at 8:19 A.M., has an average of 1,250 riders but only 1,145 seats, according to N.J. Transit.
About 160 riders stand on the 5:38 out of Long Branch, which arrives at Pennsylvania Station at 7:14 A.M., with 834 riders and 673 seats. Far more riders are stuck standing on the Northeast Corridor. The train that leaves New Brunswick at 7:45 A.M. and arrives in Manhattan at 8:40 carries 1,400 riders but has only 1,155 seats.
"That's the price of success," said Shirley A. DeLibero, executive director of N.J. Transit for the last eight years, a period of vast change. "The better the service is, the more on-time it is, the more quality service it is, people take it once and they like it."
Complicating N.J. Transit's growing pains is the imminent departure of Ms. DeLibero, who is about to leave for Houston, where she hopes to build a rail system to supplement its bus lines.
Most rail experts agree N.J. Transit is trying. Cars have been added to some trains -- the usual complement is eight -- but the railroad tries not to have them exceed the length of the station platform.
Double-decker cars are under consideration, but most designs on the market would not fit through the lone Hudson River tunnel, with its two tracks, one eastbound and one westbound. That tunnel is nearly at capacity, according to a joint planning team called Access to the Region's Core, created in 1994 by N.J. Transit, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
In a draft report to those agencies in July, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, the team called for consideration of a second Hudson tunnel with two more tracks and a connection between Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal. The project would cost about $5 billion, and take at least a decade to complete, assuming that New York, New Jersey and their various agencies could agree on a design and a way to pay for it.
Representative Bob Franks, a Republican from the 7th Congressional District encompassing parts of Essex, Middlesex, Somerset and Union counties, said in a recent interview that design money for a new tunnel had been authorized and that in January he intended to fight for the next step, appropriation of the funds.
Lacking a new tunnel, the outlook is grim. New equipment will eventually allow a few more trains an hour through the tunnel into Manhattan, but Pennsylvania Station has only 21 tracks that are shared by the Long Island Rail Road, Amtrak and N.J. Transit. And the sharing is strained, according to some accounts, partly because the train dispatchers -- the equivalent of an airport's controllers -- are employees of Amtrak and the Long Island Rail Road.
"It's a constant flow, and when the rush hour occurs, it's crazy," said a rail manager for one of the region's commuter lines, who also spoke on condition of anonymity. He said he had seen dispatchers bicker and delay one another's trains. "Penn Station cannot handle any more trains."
But Walter Zullig, the special counsel to Metro North, who is chairman of a committee on commuter rail for a national research organization, said the rivalries were more historical than current or personal.
"Railroad people always get very nervous when some other company controls the rails they're on," Mr. Zullig said. "But we are all so interdependent now, any railroad that would start playing games like that would pay for it."
Still, new drains on the capacity of Pennsylvania Station are bearing down: Amtrak is to begin high-speed service between Boston and Washington late next year, which will bring more trains into Manhattan. And longstanding plans are on schedule to start bringing Metro North trains into Penn Station in the next decade while moving Long Island Rail Road operations to Grand Central.
Not all of the state's widening pool of commuters are bound for Manhattan. With a growing corporate presence in suburban centers like Morristown and along the Northeast Corridor, at least 10,100 commuters a day are heading somewhere in New Jersey; 41,700 are going to New York City.
Many more may be connecting to PATH service from Newark, where N.J. Transit trains deliver 20,300 people, or from Hoboken, where it carries 21,850 people. The result: the PATH train is also packed. Rich Davala, an insurance executive from Wayne, takes N.J. Transit to Hoboken and then heads to the PATH and on to the World Trade Center. On a recent day, he waited through several trains until he could board one that wasn't crammed, something Mr. Davala, who has been commuting for six years, said he had gotten used to.
Mike DePallo, the director and general manager of the PATH train, said that in 1996, the PATH collected 60,650,000 fares as against 62,200,000 in 1997. He said that this year, the line anticipates taking in 64,700,000 fares. A little more than three-fifths are from riders in the peak periods, 7 A.M. to 10 A.M. and 4 P.M. to 7 P.M. He added that by the end of the year, N.J. Transit and PATH hope to unveil a combined ticket that may also increase ridership.
The first threads of today's booming rail system were laid in the early 1800's for local access to New York City and Philadelphia. In quick bursts, rail companies laid their competing lines, prompting the creation of some of the first suburban communities like Plainfield and Somerville along the old Central Railroad of New Jersey, and, along the Morris and Essex lines, hamlets in Essex, Morris and Somerset counties.
But by the end of the century, through mergers and acquisitions, only a handful of rail companies reigned: the Pennsylvania, Erie, Jersey Central and Lackawanna, each had its own territories and terminals in Newark, Hoboken and Jersey City. Newark's Broad Street Station and its own Pennsylvania Station are not linked to this day because they were created for competing lines, just as Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal were. "We're in the process now of trying to connect all this," Ms. DeLibero said.
During the Depression, this hodgepodge of rail lines began to falter. Then came the post-World War II explosion of the automobile and the interstate highway system. Railroads began collapsing and Federal subsidies kicked in, a last-gasp effort to keep commuter lines alive. Erie and Lackawanna merged in 1960. When Penn Central -- the union of Pennsylvania and New York Central -- failed, the Federal Government stepped in and created Conrail in 1976 to run both freight and passenger trains. But the passenger lines continued to bleed money.
In 1981, Congress allowed Conrail to hand off its commuter line. In New Jersey, the recipient was the newly created N.J. Transit. In its early years, the system concentrated on replacing its aging rolling stock, much of which dated to the 1930's.
That focus had painful and unforeseen consequences. With no money left to maintain station parking lots, N.J. Transit gave them to municipalities. Today, those towns often hoard what is usually an inadequate supply of parking spaces for their residents. And building garages is controversial in the small towns along the train route because using Federal dollars means that the facilities must be open to nonresidents.
To be sure, a few stations have bucked the trend. Metropark, the Iselin station on the Northeast Corridor, built a huge garage with Federal money. In contrast, Summit, on the Midtown line, has declined government money for its garage. "They just don't want the traffic," said Ms. DeLibero.
Some municipalities are embracing jitneys instead of increasing the number of parking spaces. The first, which started last year in Maplewood, was a success, with a van circulating in parts of town at no charge. This year, N.J. Transit made grants of $10,000 apiece to encourage other municipalities along the Midtown Direct line to do the same, including West Orange, Chatham, Springfield and Berkeley Heights. The grant will also help Maplewood start a second jitney. Even so, rumors persist that the state will use its right of eminent domain to reclaim parking lots in towns where nonresidents' cars are not accommodated.
John J. Haley Jr., the state's transportation commissioner, agreed that eminent domain was indeed an option. "We have always taken the good neighbor approach," he said, "but we are not satisfied that the parking program is growing fast enough."
Rail use rose and fell with the boom and bust of the 1980's, but now the region's robust economy and development in the suburbs and beyond are fueling ridership.
The next few years are packed with anticipated improvements. A $30 million electrical substation in Queens is nearing completion, the cornerstone of a rebuilt signaling system that will increase the number of trains that can enter Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station from the west to about 25 an hour from the current 20, according to Rick Richmond, N.J. Transit's assistant executive director for engineering, development and construction.
And early in the year 2000, a light rail system will begin bringing riders from Bayonne to Hoboken, offering a connection both to N.J. Transit trains and the PATH. Next comes the rehabilitated concourse at Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station in mid 2001 -- with construction costs alone pegged at $67 million -- that should ease the boarding and exiting of passengers at the cramped terminal.
Months later, in late 2001 or early 2002, the $48 million Montclair connection, which will afford a straight shot into Manhattan from stations along the Boonton line, is expected to go into operation and increase rush-hour ridership by 1,300 passengers by 2010. Around the same time, the Port Authority expects the completion of its $415 million Newark International Airport link, which will connect N.J. Transit to the airport monorail.
But those new elements are warmups to the biggest event: the Secaucus transfer, a $448 million project already under way along two miles of the most heavily traveled commuter rail line in the nation. Plans call for completion by mid-June 2002, which will coincide with the completion of a new signal system throughout the rail network. That, N.J. Transit believes, will increase rush-hour ridership on several lines -- Pascack Valley, Main and Bergen -- to about 20,000 by 2010 from the current 12,100.
For many rail advocates, crowding is the most delightful issue they can imagine. "We had 50 years of nothing but drop-offs and consolidation and automotive mania," said Douglas Bowen, president of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, a private group. "These are the problems we like, the problems of success."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Waiting... Morning in Summit, and the journey to Manhattan begins. Riding... Crowded trains often mean standing room only. Escaping... Once at Pennsylvania Station, it's a crawl to the exits. Once Again, Waiting...During the evening rush, all eyes are on the track board. (Photographs by Norman Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); As a rule, the seats are filled -- and then some -- on the Midtown Direct trains during the afternoon rush out of Manhattan, above. Below, passengers line up to descend to the platform at Pennsylvania Station. In the meantime, N.J. Transit continues to expand its franchise as workers lay the track bed for a new light rail line near the Liberty Science Center in Jersey City, below. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; COMMUTING URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: KANNAPELL, ANDREA GORDON BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



552 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
Another Step in Downtown New Brunswick Revival

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
LAST Monday ground was broken for the latest addition to New Brunswick's reviving downtown -- a $25-million government and academic building that will rise over the next year and provide another anchor for the southern end of downtown.
The project, Civic Square III, will comprise a four-story, 95,000-square-foot structure at the corner of Joyce Kilmer Avenue and New Street that will become the Middlesex County Family Courthouse. There will also be an adjacent five-level, 430-car parking garage over 1,000 square feet of ground-floor stores and a 13,000-square-foot urban campus for Middlesex County College. 
 The combined project, which replaces a municipal parking lot, is part of an ongoing effort by the city to transform a three-block area from George and Kirkpatrick Streets to Paterson and New Streets into a bustling government district. The area is home to the city's municipal complex and the county courthouse.
The new complex will join Civic Square II, a $49-million, two-building complex taking shape a block to the north. One structure with 115,000 square feet along Bayard and Kirkpatrick Streets will house administrative offices for Middlesex County. The second structure, a 118,000-square-foot building rising across the street, will contain the retail operations of the United States Postal Service, the planning and inspection divisions of the city's Buildings Department as well as two muncipal courts and county and local law enforcement offices, including the New Brunswick Police Department. There will also be a 200-car garage.
Both projects, in an unusual financing twist, are being built with private funds. They are to be completed by next fall and winter. The developer is a partnership of the Keating Development Corporation of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., and the nonprofit New Brunswick Development Corporation.
"There was a need from public institutions for more space that we wanted to fill," said Christopher J. Paladino, president of the nonprofit corporation. "More importantly these projects will establish a government district that bridges together the city's nearby cultural, academic, health care and business sectors."
He said they would also serve "as a jumping-off point" to push the downtown revitalization in a southeasterly direction along George Street to a five-block stretch extending from New Street to Commercial Avenue. The area is now is dominated by the city's public housing complex and scattered abandoned stores and houses.
The first link to the city's varied sectors was a 160,000-square-foot office and academic building for Rutgers University, which was built in 1994 at the corner of Livingston and New Streets. Called Civic Square, the five-story building completed the blockfront along Livingston Avenue, which had three existing theaters, and has since become the city's cultural hub,
One block north of the Civic Square developments the nonprofit development corporation, with R. Berman Development of Trenton, completed Liberty Plaza this summer. The 135,000-square-foot, $23-million office and retail building and an existing 500-car garage that connects it to the cultural district occupies an entire city block, bounded by Liberty, George and Paterson Streets. The block was formerly occupied by a cluster of small, timeworn stores.
The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey occupies the upper three floors of the four-story building for its administrative offices, which were consolidated from scattered locations in Newark, Piscataway and elsewhere in New Brunswick. The 20,000 square feet of street-level stores are mostly leased, some of them to national retailers, the first such leasing for the city.
Clearing an entire block had its share of challenges. Key among them was the developers' negotiating with nine separate property owners and 18 different retailers.
"Before we started purchasing the property we had the lease from the University of Medicine and Dentistry, which was contingent on completing the project by this August," said Ronald Berman, chairman of R. Berman Development. "So the risk was in our ability to get tenants out, which while there were some hairy moments, was ultimately resolved." Mr. Berman said the cost of acquiring the properties and relocating the tenants came to $4.8 million, up from the $3 million originally anticipated.
MOST of the retailers who were displaced by Liberty Plaza, though initially angered by the project, have since been relocated to other shops along George Street, the downtown's main retail street. One is John Blauvelt, who now operates his Jersey Subs deli in a storefront he renovated on George Street, three blocks from his old location at the corner of George and Liberty Streets.
"My old property was nicer, bigger and in a better location," said Mr. Blauvelt, who set up his business there five and a half years ago when he purchased the two-story building. "I wish I still had my corner location, but the new project is clearly an improvement for the street and the city."
The lease to the university allowed the developers to secure financing from the public capital market at a tax-exempt interest rate, lowering the cost of the development and, in turn, rents, Mr. Paladino said. Ownership of the building reverts to the university at the end of its 28-year lease. He said that the same tax-exempt financing was used in the development of Civic Square II and III.
The new County Administration Building at the Civic Square II project is rising on a vacant lot the county sold to the developers. The county will relocate its offices from a 1957 building a block away that the city's development corporation eventually will raze to make way for future development.
The second structure is taking shape on land owned by the Postal Service, where it operated a distribution center. Only the historic facade of the old post office building remains and has been incorporated into the new building. The move by the city's Police Department to the building from its current site along the Raritan River will free 18 prime riverfront acres to development, said Glenn S. Patterson, director of New Brunswick's Department of Policy, Planning and Economic Development.
"It is like a giant chess game, resulting in the creation of new opportunities elsewhere in the city," Mr. Patterson said of all the moving around caused by the Liberty Plaza and Civic Square projects. They also build on the city's existing strengths, he said, and at the same time "will fill in the middle section of and bring more people and activity to the downtown."
The city's role as the Middlesex County seat, along with the presence of Rutgers University, Johnson & Johnson, St. Peter's Medical Center and the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, have been major forces in its renewal efforts. Those efforts began nearly two decades ago at the northern end of the downtown where Johnson & Johnson's headquarters now stand along with several modern office buildings, a hotel and a spate of restaurants and shops. At the same time, hundreds of housing units have risen throughout the city.
Mr. Patterson said that while the Liberty Plaza project would increase the amount of property taxes generated on the site to $300,000 a year from $80,000, the two Civic Square projects will not generate tax ratables. Still, he added, that they, like other public projects, would set the tone for additional economic growth, including corporate office development, "which is the next thing we want to see."
Meanwhile, plans are advancing for Civic Square IV, a 300,000-square-foot mixed-use complex that will combine conference, hotel and retail space with market-rate housing and will further solidify the southern end of the downtown, Mr. Paladino said. In turn, he added, that "will help force development into the Commercial Avenue area.
The key to that area's turnaround is the city's plans to raze the four-building, 246-unit Memorial Homes public housing complex, just off Route 18.
Mr. Patterson said the housing complex would be replaced by 198 town-house rental and for-sale residences, 70 of which will rise on the old Memorial Homes site. The rest will take shape within a five-block radius and some 146 residents will be given Section 8 rent vouchers to move to apartments in locations of their choice. Construction is to start on the new housing next summer and be completed by the year 2002, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A $23-million office and retail building was completed last summer in Liberty Plaza, a block north of the Civic Square developments. The block-square plaza also has an existing 500-car garage. (New Brunswick Development Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); POLICE FORCES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: KIRKPATRICK STREETS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



553 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A New Food and Wine Coalition Promotes Hudson Valley Visits

BYLINE: By FAY ELLIS 

 BODY:
PUFF pastry shells filled with veal and mushrooms, accompanied by vintage Zinfandel wine and finished off with fondant au chocolat for dessert. This may not sound like anyone's idea of a diet meal, but calorie counters seemed to be in short supply among the 300 guests who crammed the Putnam Country Club in Mahopac earlier this month for a food and wine tasting event that featured offerings from 21 restaurants, 10 wineries and 7 food producers from the Hudson Valley.
The event -- a fund-raiser for the Putnam-Northern Westchester Women's Resource Center, which helps victims of domestic violence -- marked the start of the Hudson Valley Food and Wine Experience, a coalition of the restaurateurs, food producers and wine makers who offered their wares at the country club. 
 The group's goal is to make Westchester and other counties in the Hudson Valley more of a destination for visitors and bring in more tourist dollars.
"There is arguably no more beautiful area than the Hudson Valley," said Peter Xaviar Kelly, the chef and owner of Xaviar's in Garrison, who helped organize the Hudson Valley Food and Wine Experience. "But notwithstanding the region's beauty and unique history, its world-class restaurants and wineries are the best-kept secret on the East Coast. We'd like to convince tourists to rent a car or take a train ride out to experience the history, beauty and cuisine of our region."
Mr. Kelly, who also owns Xaviar's at Piermont and Freelance Cafe and Winebar in Piermont, said that promoting the Hudson Valley poses an unusual challenge. Unlike the Napa Valley in northern California, which has restaurants and wineries clustered along one area of a highway, the Hudson Valley encompasses a large geographical expanse.
That is why a coalition like the Food and Wine Experience is needed, said Bill Primavera, who heads a Yorktown Heights public relations and marketing firm that has many clients in the food and wine industry. Tourist bureaus in each county promote tourism locally, he said, but little has been done before now to promote the region as a whole. The Hudson Valley group wants to work with existing tourist agencies.
Mr. Primavera said he had envisioned a food and wine coalition 25 years ago when he was public relations director of the Culinary Institute of America in New Hyde Park. But he felt the idea was premature then because there were not enough restaurants.
The association emerged out of an exchange of good will. Mr. Primavera asked Mr. Kelly to bring together restaurants and wineries for a food and wine event for the Putnam-Northern Westchester Women's Resource Center, one of his pet causes. In return, Mr. Primavera pledged to promote the group as a food and wine trade association.
"The consensus among the group is that everyone will benefit by working together to promote the Hudson Valley region," Mr. Primavera said.
The Westchester contingent includes, among others, George Seitz, a master chef and owner of the Arch in Brewster; Jonathan White of the Egg Farm Dairy in Peekskill and George Naumburg of the North Salem Vineyard, a retired psychiatrist.
Members of the association are seeking to promote the economic health of the Hudson Valley by taking their products and services to New York City consumers, supporting agriculture regionwide and organizing events to draw visitors to the Hudson Valley.
Elizabeth Ryan, who runs the Breezy Hill Orchard and Cider Mill in Clinton Corners in Dutchess County, sells her cider at a local farmer's market and at Union Square in Manhattan. The Rivendell Winery and Vineyard in New Paltz is negotiating for a retail outlet to sell its wine in New York City. Janet Crawshaw and Jerry Novesky, a husband-and-wife team from Middletown, recently produced the second edition of their glossy quarterly magazine, The Valley Table, which focuses farms, food and cuisine in the Hudson Valley.
The tomatoes and peppers used in the salsa products of My Brother Bobby's Salsa, a Poughkeepsie-based company, are primarily grown on farms in New Paltz and Kingston.
John M. Novi, proprietor of the Depuy Canal House, uses produce from farms in High Falls, Ulster County, near his restaurant. "Using seasonal herbs and vegetables forces me to be even more creative in planning and adapting our menus throughout the year," he said.
Mr. Naumburg said that despite the fact that the Hudson Valley is the oldest commercial winegrowing region in the United States, its winemakers have not been able to compete successfully against California, France or even the Finger Lakes. "When I was asked to join this new group, I realized it could be a chance for that to change," Mr. Naumburg said. "The food and wine tasting event is a milestone on that path."
The new group, sponsored by Mastercard, wants to work with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to offer package tours to the Hudson Valley. One such package might include a train ride to Brewster for dinner at the Arch and a tasting at the North Salem Vineyard.
Georgia Kalayjian-Murphy, president of the Westchester Convention and Tourist Bureau in White Plains, said she was enthusiastic about the new association. Last year, she said. tourists spent $187 million in food establishments in Westchester, and she said there are many more tourist dollars available. "When we go to tourism trade shows in Europe, people say they want to offer more than what is available in Manhattan," Ms. Kalayjian-Murphy said. "We feel we can draw international visitors to our area because we have more to offer here as a driving destination."
Ms. Kalayjian-Murphy added: "You can have the best restaurants in the world, but if people don't believe in the destination, they won't come."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY FOOD AND WINE EXPERIENCE (ORGN); PUTNAM-NORTHERN WESTCHESTER WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER RENT-A-CAR CO INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON VALLEY FOOD AND WINE EXPERIENCE (ORGN); PUTNAM-NORTHERN WESTCHESTER WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON VALLEY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); TOURISM (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); DIETING (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (55%); 

PERSON: ELLIS, FAY BILL PRIMAVERA (71%); PETER XAVIAR KELLY (66%); GEORGE NAUMBURG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



554 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In / College Point, Queens;
Small Enclave Feels Pressures of the City

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
THERE is always a jetliner somewhere on the horizon of College Point, a low-rise, blue-collar Queens outpost on Flushing Bay where maintaining small-town virtues rooted in the 19th century is a struggle.
Sometimes jetliners landing or taking off across the bay at La Guardia Airport fly too close, and even under normal conditions their keening engines are a distant audio backdrop along College Point Boulevard, the main commercial thoroughfare. 
 Volume is pumped up in areas nearest the airport, whose main runways route air traffic around but not directly over College Point.
"You have to keep constant vigilance on them," said Rocco Cardali, a director of the 160-member College Point Civic and Taxpayers Association, which tries to keep the jets at bay.
When ever-larger trucks serving the College Point Industrial Park and other industrial enclaves mount curbs and sidewalks to make tight turns on narrow streets, people have been known to go to their owners, equipped, if necessary, with videotapes showing the offense.
At least one company started using smaller trucks, but the battle goes on in this community where roadwork on 14th Avenue, a major thoroughfare, is currently adding to traffic problems. "We keep getting pushed and pushed," said Joan Vogt, a former association president.
When the frequently flooded, 70-acre Flushing Airport, closed by the city in 1984 and now reverting to marshland, was proposed for a heliport there was an uproar in surrounding areas, including College Point. The city's Economic Development Corporation later dropped the plan.
Now some in College Point favor rebuilding and partial rerouting a ghostly stretch of Linden Boulevard, which had been abandoned within the airport fence, to relieve the expected crush of traffic to and from a new shopping center on 20th Avenue near the Whitestone Expressway.
The just-opening shopping center, with tenants including Target, BJ's Wholesale Club, Staples, Waldbaum's and T.J. Maxx, has also been a source of controversy and divided opinion.
Bill Rose, a broker and owner of Century 21 Weber and Rose Realty on College Point Boulevard, who concedes nothing to jet noise and likens his hometown to a "quiet, New England type of town," said the new stores were a long-overdue improvement. "It brings us into the 20th century," he said. "We don't have to go out to Nassau County anymore."
But Fred Mazzarello, founder and president of the College Point Board of Trade, said the stores would bring nightmare traffic, replace sustaining full-time jobs with low-wage, part-time ones, and sound the death knell for the traditional shopping area along College Point Boulevard.
"Most of the merchants look at it as a threat to their survival," Mr. Mazzarello said. "Our last women's dress shop just closed. We don't have enough quality stores left in town."
FOR newcomers -- and there has been a turnover here as Hispanics and Asians add new ethnicity to a place long inhabited by residents of German, Irish and Italian ancestry -- one attraction is lower prices than in Whitestone and much lower prices than in upscale Malba, both adjoining areas.
Real estate brokers said the market was strong, with house prices rising and sales brisk. "As fast as we list them, if they are in good condition they sell," said Ellene Wundrok, a sales agent at the Suydam Agency.
The housing stock includes one- and two-family, wood-frame homes built in the 20's and 30's, bungalows sometimes built far earlier and newer expanses of single and attached brick one- and two-family houses built in the 50's and 60's. Mr. Rose said buildings were generally 22 feet wide and 45 feet deep with rear yards that may be 40 feet by 25 feet.
Four condominium complexes -- Skyline Terrace, Bay Park Estates, Riverview and Silverpointe -- with a total of about 450 units were built in the 80's. At Silverpointe, a three-bedroom, two-bath unit with monthly charges of $235 was on the market earlier this month for $215,000. At Riverview, a one-bedroom unit with monthly charges of $140 was for sale for $107,000.
There are few apartment buildings, but many two-family houses include rentals. A two-bedroom apartment in a two-family house rents for about $850.
Neighborhoods north of 14th Avenue, where Cape Cods, ranches and bungalows predominate, are distinctly suburban. Industrial areas are mostly south of 14th.
There is a certain smallness here. Conrad Poppenhusen Park, named for the German immigrant who brought his hard-rubber industry here from the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn in 1854 with his mostly German workers in tow, is hardly large enough to contain its Poppenhusen bust.
On College Point Boulevard, St. Paul's Episcopal Church seems just a few shades larger than a large private dwelling. Across the street, in the one-room Queens public library branch named after Poppenhusen, a cough is heard in every corner.
But this compactness is counterbalanced by vistas of the distant Manhattan skyline, as seen beyond Rikers Island and Astoria from the shoreline promenade at Herman A. MacNeil Park, a rolling expanse of lawns, playing fields and towering trees with a playground that includes a boccie court.
The 29-acre park, at the tip of the College Point peninsula, was once the site of St. Paul's College, an Episcopal seminary that gave the community its name. Built in 1837, it was torn down at the turn of the century.
And if, as local historian Robert C. Friedrich laments, many of the fine details of surviving, older wood-frame homes disappeared beneath vinyl siding during the energy-conscious 1970s, there is still the imposing Poppenhusen Institute, a New York City historical landmark that combines Italianate and French Second Empire elements.
There are two public elementary schools, three religious grade schools and one girls' Roman Catholic high school in College Point. Students go to neighboring Flushing and Whitestone for upper grades in public schools.
At the 650-pupil P.S. 29, covering kindergarten through grade 6, Principal Peggy Miller said scores on standardized math and reading tests were above city and state averages. The school has a new computer lab with 32 computers. A new, 32-computer lab is also in operation at the k-6, 715-pupil P.S. 129. Students also score above state and city averages in standardized tests said the principal, Lita Adair. Both schools emphasize arts and music.
J.H.S. 185 in Flushing, with 830 students in grades 7 through 9, is one of the few in the city offering advanced math courses to selected students in the seventh grade, said Barbara Rubin, the acting principal. Test scores regularly place the school in the top 50 for intermediate and junior high schools, said Ms. Rubin.
At J.H.S. 194, covering grades 7 through 9, Anita Sobel, the principal, said about half of the 960 students were in accelerated courses and took Regents exams in the eighth and ninth grades. The school has its own Web page and is being upgraded for expanded computer programs.
A number of the 2,100 students at Flushing High School are from College Point. In 1997, 81 percent of its 181 graduates went on to higher education, according to a school spokeswoman. S.A.T. scores last school year averaged 404 in verbal and 454 in math, compared with 495 and 503, respectively, in New York State. The school has a a special program in law and criminal justice and instruction in automobile repair.
AMONG the private schools in College Point is St. Agnes Academic School, with 450 girls in grades 9 through 12. About 95 percent go on to higher education said the principal, Sister Marguerite Warren. The 90-year-old school offers advanced placement courses and emphasizes community service. Tuition is $4,680.
About 100 children attend kindergarten through grade 8 at St. John's Lutheran School, where small class size gives students extra attention. The fees are $285 monthly for nursery and kindergarten and $265 monthly for grades 1 through 8.
At the 110-pupil, nursery to grade 8 St. Paul's, an Episcopal school also in College Point, Headmaster Robert Montheard said "a values-based curriculum in a small, family-sized environment" was offered. Tuition is $2,600.
The 500-pupil, k-8 Roman Catholic St. Fidelis School emphasizes programs in music, computers and science. There is also an after-school program and the annual $2,000 tuition is reduced by half for a second child.
Youth sports programs, a staple in College Point, hit a rough spot when the city padlocked fences around fields leased to the College Point Athletic Association. The city acted after rubble of questionable origin was dumped as fill to raise the level of the flood-prone football field.
For all that embroils them, many people add to any recitation of local problems a common footnote. "I can never see myself leaving College Point," said Ms. Vogt, the former civic association president.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Houses on Seventh Avenue between College Place and 119th Street; Bust of Conrad Poppenhusen, left, German immigrant who brought hard-rubber industry to College Point in 1854. Poppenhusen Institute, at right. (Photo-graphs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Market" -- 2-bedroom, 2-bath high ranch at 5-35 115th Street, $199,000. 4-bedroom, 2-bath Cape Cod at 123-25 Fifth Avenue, $220,000. 3-bedroom, 2-bath ranch at 11-01 127th Street, $265,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETEER"
 
 POPULATION: 23,330 (1997 estimate).
 
 AREA: 2.3 square miles.
 
 MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $55,600 (1997 estimate).
 
 MEDIAN PRICE FOR A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $220,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $200,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $165,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE FOR A 2-FAMILY HOME: $240,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $210,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $180,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE FOR A 2-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $135,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $125,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $120,000.
 
 MIDRANGE RENT FOR A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $850.
 
 DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 10 miles.
 
 RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 10 minutes by bus to Main Street, Flushing, then 33 minutes on No. 7 subway or 20 minutes on Long Island Rail Road, $5.50 one-way, $36 weekly, $117 monthly; one hour on Queens Surface Express bus from Whitestone Expressway service road, $3 one way, Metro card accepted.
 
 GOVERNMENT: City Councilman Michael J. Abel, Democrat.
 
 CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 11356 and 11354.
 
 SAVING POPPENHUSEN: The beer gardens, picnic groves, fine beaches and resort hotels that enlivened College Point from the mid-19th century to Prohibition are recalled in an exhibit of photographs and artifacts at Poppenhusen Institute at 114-04 14th Road. Earlier this month a sold-out 130th anniversary dance was held in the institute's ornate Victorian ballroom. That the institute, whose cornerstone was laid in 1868, exists today is a testament to its executive director, Susan K. Brustmann, and her friend, Ellen A. Stevenson, who began a grass-roots campaign to save the landmark building from being razed in the 1980's. "It wasn't hard to get support from the community and historic societies," Ms. Brustmann recalled. "Energy came from many sources." The institute, founded by Conrad Poppenhusen, housed the first free kindergarten in the country, to the benefit of employees of Poppenhusen's hard-rubber plant and other College Point industries. Today, free classes include karate for children and acting for teen-agers. Group piano lessons for children at a nominal fee are also offered, and there are theater workshops, a resident theater company and free lectures, Ms. Brustmann said. The institute is open Monday through Wednesday from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., Monday night from 6 to 9, Friday from 3 to 8 P.M. and on weekends by appointment. Admission is free.
 
Map of Queens, highlighting College Point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%); T J MAXX (53%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (53%); NEW YORK JETS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLLEGE POINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING AIRPORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); RETAILERS (86%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



555 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Will Indian Wealth Benefit Norwich?

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
IN 1994, when the Mashantucket Pequots announced plans to put $18 million into downtown Norwich, it seemed the dawn of a new age for the longtime down-on-its-luck river community. But recent tribal announcements have raised questions about whether the city will ever actually see much benefit from the Pequot wealth.
The tribe, which runs the hugely successful Foxwoods Resort Casino near Norwich, first announced in 1994 that it would build an upscale apartment building that would incorporate the city's ornate architecture and would harken to the city's golden age at the turn of the last century when wealthy whaling ship captains lived there. The tribe changed its plans in 1996 and proposed building an upscale hotel in cooperation with a major international hotel chain. 
 On Tuesday the tribe revealed plans for a more modest, unadorned hotel building that some residents said resembled a dormitory or a nursing home.
Tuesday's announcement was the latest of a series of disappointments for Norwich residents. In October, the tribe had announced that construction of the downtown hotel would not start until a new study was made of the changing market for hotel rooms in southeastern Connecticut. At that time, an official of the tribal council complained that the state and the city were not doing their part financially to support the hotel project while putting substantial amounts of money into commercial projects nearby.
Kenneth Reels, who was recently elected chairman of the tribal council, said the hotel project was not getting its fair share of state grants and needed more such support. As part of a state effort to spur development in urban areas, the state has put up $500,000 of grant money for Norwich, and that is for construction of a parking garage.
In contrast, Mr. Reels said, millions of state dollars have gone to encourage development at Pfizer Inc., the pharmaceutical giant that operates a large research center in the nearby city of Groton, and the state put $3.65 million into the construction of a parking garage for the Konover Hotel Group's planned $10 million restoration of the Wauregan Hotel, near the site of the tribe's planned hotel in Norwich.
The Norwich City Manager, William G. Tallman, disputed Mr. Reels' figures. The tribe's proposed project has received more than $2.4 million in state and city support, he says. Mr. Tallman said in a letter to Mr. Reels that the tribe was getting more state grant money than the Konover Hotel Group would get for the Wauregan project. The $3.65 million is for a parking garage that will provide 150 parking spaces specifically for the Wauregan Hotel, and about 200 other spaces to relieve downtown parking pressure. A centerpiece for the downtown development project, called the Mercantile Exchange Block, was bought by for $750,000 by the city, which spent an additional $70,000 in an eminent domain settlement for a property that is also being used for the tribe's hotel project.
"The city extended themselves in good faith," said Bill Stanley, a former State Senator and local newspaper columnist. "The Mashantucket Pequot have not yet reciprocated." The tribe's hotel project site is 8 miles from the tribe's Foxwoods casino and just 3 miles from the Mohegan Sun Casino, said Mr. Stanley. He said it seemed as if the Mashantucket Pequot may not want to build a hotel that would probably benefit the Mohegan Sun Casino far more than Foxwoods.
The Mashantucket Pequot are committed to assisting in Norwich's redevelopment efforts, says Susan Viafora, a tribal spokeswoman. She said the tribe has spent millions of dollars for demolition and an archeological survey. But she added that given how dramatically market conditions for hotel rooms are changing it was still reasonable to study the hotel market before beginning construction. "The tribe wants to do what is best for the city of Norwich and the tribal constituency," Ms. Viafora said .
The more modest hotel plan announced last week was a result of the study, which showed that Norwich could not support a luxury four-star hotel with rooms going for about $180 a night, said Robert Birmingham, the tribal planner.
Despite the disappointment expressed by some city residents the hotel was approved by the city's planning commission and construction is scheduled to begin on July 1.
But there were continuing doubts by some Norwich residents. Dale Plummer, the Norwich City Historian, called the latest hotel plan "an insult to the city." Arthur Lathrop, president of the Norwich Heritage Trust, said the "boxlike" structure was not appropriate for downtown.
Another resident, Thomas Bjorg questioned whether the tribe was ever serious about aiding the city's downtown redevelopment. "A question people should be asking," he said, "is why would the Mashantucket Pequot want to do anything that would take people away from the slot machines and bring them to Norwich?' "
Ron D. Aliano, a local businessman who is involved in another project with the Pequots, offered this reply to the doubters: "If you look at Las Vegas you can see the new thinking in the casino industry is that there must be other things beside gambling to attract the most people. Museums, historic districts, a wide range of available activities and entertainment doesn't compete with, but complements casinos."
Mr. Aliano is the owner of the American Wharf development on the city's waterfront, where the tribe planned to base its high-speed passenger boat, the Sassacus. To accommodate the Sassacus, which had been built by the tribal-owned Pequot River Shipworks in Norwich, the city put up about $280,000 and Mr.Aliano spent another $170,000 to build a 186-foot-long floating concrete pier. But the Sassacus has never used the pier to bring passengers to Norwich from New York City and other locations. During a test run on the Thames River, bystanders observed that at normal operating speed the Sassacus raised a potentially destructive wake.
The main problem the Sassacus has, says Mr. Aliano, is that it burns 800 gallons of fuel an hour. The extra hour of operation needed to get to and from Norwich is just not practical, he said. The tribe is considering the construction of boats with a different kind of engine that would make runs to Norwich more feasible, he said.
"It doesn't matter if the Sassacus uses the dock or doesn't use the dock," Mr. Aliano said. "It will be used." A 70-foot yacht built in 1929 is using the new pier, and Mr. Aliano and Mr. Tallman say cruise lines have expressed interest.
City officials and residents say they're much more hopeful about the completion of a development project involving the Mohegans. In 1995 the city was given a $250,000 state grant to start the development of a communication and technology instruction center in the Masonic Temple. But during a 1997 archeological survey, remnants of Mohegan burials were found.
According to municipal histories, the Masonic Temple and its grounds are on an ancient burial site, where the tribe's leaders, including the Great Sachem Uncas were buried. The cemetery, the Royal Mohegan Burial Ground, covered 26 acres between the falls of the Yantic River and Chelsea Parade.
The area is now a thickly populated residential neighborhood. The city had an understanding with the Mohegans that the burial ground was to remain consecrated ground. But in 1842, with the complicity of the tribe's state-appointed overseer, the agreement was violated and the land was used for agriculture and residential development.
When the remains were found last year, the Mohegans asked that allexcavation plans be halted. But in February the city, the Mohegans and the state came to an agreement on proceeding with the project.
It was agreed no further excavations would be made. In addition to a technology and communication education center -- which would offer instruction in state of the art television, computer and communication technology -- the theater in the building would be renovated and expanded into a performing arts center. A museum/memorial was to be established for Uncas, and for the other tribal leaders and ancestors buried in the Royal Mohegan Burial Ground. The city agreed to donate the Masonic Temple building, and the state agreed to contribute $5 million if a study concluded it was a feasible development project and the tribe would contribute another $5 million. In addition, the tribe is searching for an alternate meeting place for the Masonic Lodge.
The state has completed the feasibility study on the costs and uses of the project and submitted it to Peter Ellef, Gov. John G. Rowland's chief of staff. A final decision regarding the study has not yet been made, said Nuala Ford, a spokeswoman for Governor Rowland.
The Mohegan Tribe's leaders say the wealth generated by the Mohegan Sun Casino will not be hoarded,but used to benefit the community at large, said Mr. Stanley, the newspaper columnist, and there was no reason not to believe them at this point.

GRAPHIC: Map of Connecticut shows location of Norwich: Norwich has counted on economic help from two nearby casinos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (81%); PFE (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (81%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASHANTUCKET PEQUOT INDIANS PFIZER INC (81%); FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (72%); NORWICH CITY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASHANTUCKET PEQUOT INDIANS NORWICH CITY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWICH (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDIANS, AMERICAN HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (88%); GRANTS & GIFTS (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); EMINENT DOMAIN (72%); CASINOS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); WHALING (55%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM KENNETH REELS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



556 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Draw First Protests

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER residents had their first chance Wednesday night to have their say on the proposed $1.13 billion county budget, and they came out strongly, grumbling about proposed cuts to the county's four neighborhood health centers, applauding increased aid for day-care programs and saying the county could do still more for children and women.
The hearing at the Holmes Elementary School in Mount Vernon drew more than 100 people, including 45 speakers, and lasted about 2 hours. Among the speakers were a few, like Kelly Jones, president of the Taxpayers Alliance of New York, who called for tax cuts beyond those proposed earlier in the week by County Executive Andrew J. Spano. 
 But most of those speaking at the hearing asked for more financing for certain programs. Among them were speakers for the health centers in Mount Vernon, Ossining, Peekskill and Greenburgh, which collectively stand to lose up to $300,000. Mr. Spano said earlier that he had based his suggestion for the reduction on recommendations by county auditors about how much the per-patient costs at the centers should be.
But those cuts would cause a disaster, speakers told the Board of Legislators' Committee on Budget and Appropriations, echoing comments made earlier by Carole Morris, chief executive officer of the Mount Vernon Neighborhood Health Center, who said, "If the cuts are not restored we'll have a serious problem with serving families that are not insured."
Amy Paulin of the Westchester Women's Agenda led a contingent of speakers who discussed services for women. "Overall, we have achieved so much in the last four years that by maintaining those items we are still doing O.K.," she said before her public remarks. "But we had hoped that we would continue to see improvement for women and kids' initiatives. There is still so much that needs to be done."
After the hearing, Richard G. Wishnie, a Democratic Legislator from Briarcliff and chairman of the Budget Committee, said: "Definitely, there is a super majority of the Legislators who support restoring the health centers. I don't have much doubt that the money will be restored." But he added that the Board would seek to offset this or any other additions with cuts elsewhere to Mr. Spano's budget. "It is our goal not only to maintain the tax levy decrease but to cut it further."
How much taxes actually decrease in Mr. Spano's budget depends on how the cut is defined.
Traditionally, officials present a new budget in its best light when it comes to taxes. But the County Executive did not do that when he recently introduced a 1999 operating budget of $1.13 billion.
Under his budget, $364.5 million would be collected in property taxes, a decrease of a little more than $1 million from this year.
That is a proposed 0.29 percent reduction in the county tax levy -- the amount of money actually collected from property taxes.
Only casually in the course of his budget briefing did Mr. Spano mention that there would be a drop of more than 7 percent in the tax rate -- the calculation of the amount that a property owner would pay per $1,000 of assessed value of the property. It was later disclosed that the actual amount is 7.3 percent.
No matter which calculation is used, the effect on property owners remains unclear, since the amount varies from community to community and cannot be determined until the middle of next month. It is also probable that some of that tax decrease will be offset by higher garbage and sewer district taxes, which Mr. Spano, a Democrat, also announced.
The County Executive said of his first budget since taking office in January: "I made a pledge to Westchester residents that I would reduce the cost of government to our taxpayers, without reducing services. I have kept that pledge, although it hasn't been easy."
The budget also calls for a 10-cent increase in bus fares accompanied by the elimination of transfer fees between buses, the elimination of 127 vacant county positions, the elimination of funds for the Women's Justice Center (because Mr. Spano wants to reassess ways to provide its services) and some reorganization of the county government. Mr. Spano said the budget maintains or increases spending levels for various cultural groups and social organizations.
The proposed budget is available on the Internet at www.co.westchester.ny.us/operatingbdgt.
The Board of Legislators has until Dec. 7 to make any additions and until Dec. 27 to adopt a final spending plan. The Board's remaining public hearings on the budget will be held tomorrow at 7 P.M. at the Chappaqua Public Library, 195 South Greeley Avenue in Chappaqua, and on Dec. 7 at 7 P.M. in the Board of Legislators Chambers, on the eighth floor of the County Office Building, at 148 Martine Avenue in White Plains.
County property taxes account for about 20 percent of a property owner's tax bill, with the rest imposed by school districts, local governments and special taxing districts like those for sewers and garbage.
During his 1997 election campaign, Mr. Spano promised to cut the county property tax levy by 15 percent during his four-year term. "We are optimistic about reaching that 15 percent after four years," Mr. Spano said. Then observing how much greater is the tax rate reduction than the tax levy reduction, he quipped, "I wish I had said 'rate,' not 'levy,' " when making that promise.
But the number is of questionable usefulness except as a trend, said Kathleen M. Tooher, the county's Budget Director. This is because property values increase or decrease by different amounts from community to community, and the formula to equalize the differences is not adopted until mid-December. And when the economy is good -- as it is now -- the county's total assessment rolls grow, meaning there are more taxpayers to share the tax burden so a tax rate can go down.
"There is no average home we can use, no average community," Ms. Tooher said when asked to state the impact of Mr. Spano's budget on individual residents. "I would say that some people might find their taxes up. But for the majority, their county taxes will go down."
How much of this would be offset by increases in special district taxes, like sewer and garbage, could not be determined. Westchester has 13 sewer districts; in budgets proposed for them, the tax levy change ranged from a reduction of 3.71 percent in the Hutchinson Valley Sewer District to an increase of 4.81 percent in the New Rochelle Sewer District. A tax increase of 4 percent is proposed for the Westchester Refuse Disposal District, which includes most of the county. Taxes in the county's four water districts would either go down or stay the same, depending on the district.
In preparing his budget and trying to fulfill his pledge to cut taxes, Mr. Spano had two major hurdles to overcome, both of which he said were beyond his control: he had to finance retroactive and 1999 raises for most of the county's work force, and he had to finance $68 million in costs of a Federal- and state-mandated program to provide education and transportation services to disabled children younger than 5, an increase of $6 million over what is expected to be spent this year. (About 59 percent of those costs are reimbursed by the state, but this, Mr. Spano stressed, is less than the 75 percent reimbursement rate the state had promised.)
On the positive side, Mr. Spano said that the county's subsidy to the Westchester Health Care Corporation, which runs the Westchester Medical Center, would drop $4.6 million to $26 million and be phased out entirely over the next eight years. Also, because of a good economy and welfare reform, Mr. Spano is budgeting a decrease of $8.4 million in welfare costs.
There was generally positive reaction from County Legislators to Mr. Spano's budget, although Democrats and Republicans alike emphasized that they had not yet had a chance to study the proposal closely and that there were items that might have to be modified. Andrea Stewart-Cousins, Democrat of Yonkers, was one of several Legislators who said she was concerned about the proposed cuts to the neighborhood health centers and proposed increase in bus fares.
Kelly Jones of Greenburgh, president of the Taxpayers Alliance of New York, said his group, which has about 350 families as members, would mobilize to push for a larger tax reduction. "The county executive ran on a platform to reduce taxes 15 percent over four years. We now have about 14.75 percent to go after the first year." He questioned whether the county had a "strategic plan in place" to accomplish Mr. Spano's goal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF LEGISLATORS CHAMBERS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF LEGISLATORS CHAMBERS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DAY CARE CENTERS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH BUDGETS (93%); COUNTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: GREENE, DONNA ANDREW J SPANO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



557 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 14; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Born of Illness, a Grand Metamorphosis

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE

 BODY:
THE exhibition of paintings and works on paper by Kendall Shaw at the Gallery of South Orange affords a palpable sensation of a triumphant fresh start. Of course, it's not necessary to know elements of Mr. Shaw's life story to appreciate his work, but they help explain why it acquired extra verve and dimension in recent years. In the late 1980's and the early 90's Mr. Shaw battled a rare form of hepatitis that threatened his life. Because he was forced to find treatment on his own, said Judy Wukitsch, the gallery's assistant director, his painting career was halted in those years.
That he is now completely well is reflected in the vibrantly colored, highly animated work Mr. Shaw has made since 1992. The paintings are dominated by linear rhythms that are a little bit Matisse and a little bit Keith Haring. Other art-historical traditions leave their mark: many compositions seem modeled on medieval altarpieces, with side panels flanking a central one and smaller panels below. Some of the lines turn into strong suggestions of intertwined bodies, a motif central to Mr. Shaw's intentions. The exhibition is titled "Eros, Rhythm, Melody," and he is rediscovering eros, with the other two elements serving to stoke it. 
 Some recent paintings bear titles that transport Mr. Shaw, and some viewers, back a few decades. "Behind the Trellis," "The Naked Lunch" and "Back Seat at the Drive-In" give viewers license to read lusty goings-on in the paintings, but the paintings are also erotic in an overarching sense: Mr. Shaw is evidently having a romance with the act of painting itself.
He approaches it in a variety of ways. He builds discreet relief into the paintings by drawing many of his forms with thin tape. Conversely, in other areas he stains pigment into the canvas. One of his favorite recurring motifs is an area spotted with marks where bits of tape have been pulled off after paint was applied to the whole area. Color is thoroughly explored: some works have a certain dignity through the dominance of blacks and browns; elsewhere, his palette is distinguished by retina-popping brightness. A couple of paintings from 1992 contain small patches of blood, a strong symbol of Mr. Shaw's illness and recovery.
All the paintings were completed in the 90's, most in the last year, and several were begun 10 years ago, before his illness, and were considered finished then. It doesn't take an archeologist to discover which elements in these decade-spanning works are the originals and which are recent additions. In the 1980's, Mr. Shaw was allied with the movement known as Pattern and Decoration. When it began in the late 1970's, it was a reaction to the sobriety and the dominant intellectual sway of Minimal art. As in Minimalism, there is regularity and predictability in Pattern painting, but because it coincided with the rise of the feminist movement and attracted many female artists, the paintings could be colorful and, as the name implies, unabashedly decorative, qualities often thought of as feminine.
Mr. Shaw's patterns were mostly diagonal weaves of lines in somber colors that betray a humorless rigor. The strong discipline may stem from the fact that he was trained as a scientist; his biography reveals that in 1950 he studied painting and chemistry at the same time. These paintings that try to make a unity of his art before and after the disruption are awkward, for the most part; the clean-slate character of works begun after his recovery succeed because they brim with confidence.
One of these more loosely patterned works, at first glance a seeming anomaly, is "Another Target." It is also more than the lively abstract painting it at first seems to be. A closer look reveals the main motif to be a target of bombs or missiles, seen from the air through a navigational instrument. The small panels at the bottom also contain aerial targets and lumps of thick paint, which are the unloosed weapons.
Large paintings on canvas can't help dominating an exhibition, especially when the gallery is decorated neutrally and the paintings burst with color. But an artist's core convictions are often expressed in smaller, seemingly more offhand pieces. A series of works on paper, begun in 1979 and finished this year, strengthen the feeling that Mr. Shaw is at heart a political artist. In an essay in the brochure accompanying the show, Carl Hazelwood refers the strong influence on Mr. Shaw of his grandmother Emma Lottie, who was a suffragist in Louisiana, the artist's home state. Her memory is at the center of a grid of collage prints.
The other squares of this grid are dedicated to Medgar Evers and civil rights workers who were killed in the early 1960's on voter registration drives in the South. In his grandmother's square, Mr. Shaw has arranged an orderly display of collage elements with patriotic references including bits of red, white and blue paper, gummed stars and small gold buttons. But because the others had experiences with suffrage that ended in violence, the colored paper, buttons and stars fly across the paper as if a gunshot had scattered them.
The exhibition provides a complete panorama through an economy of means. Not only is Mr. Shaw unabashed about reviving "Happy Days"-like memories of furtive sexual encounters, but he also realizes that the other side of the era he is celebrating -- the often violent social struggles -- was an unremitting backdrop for sweeter emotions.
 
EROS, RHYTHM, MELODY
Gallery of South Orange, Baird Center, 5 Mead Street, South Orange
Paintings by Kendall Shaw. Through Dec. 25. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. and 4 to 6 P.M.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 P.M.
(973) 275-3040

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Sex and the Hot Toyota," above, and "Back Seat at the Drive-In," by Kendall Show, on view in South Orange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS PAINTING (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ART HISTORY (73%); HEPATITIS (71%); ANIMATION (69%); 

PERSON: SHOW, KENDALL; ZIMMER, WILLIAM KEITH HARING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



558 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
State's Unemployment Rate Drops Below the National Level

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate was 4.5 percent in October, the first time in nearly seven years the state's rate was lower than the national one, the state Labor Department reported last week. The national rate for October was 4.6 percent, unchanged from September. The October number for New Jersey is down from 4.7 percent in September.
The 4.5 percent rate was the lowest for New Jersey since March 1990. 
 The state's Labor Commissioner, Mel Gelade, said the economy was bolstered by more jobs in the service and retail sectors, though manufacturing employment was down.
The last time New Jersey's rate was below the national average was December 1991. But the nation was in recession then. The New Jersey rate was 7.2 percent, and the national rate was 7.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



559 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Newark Looks at Site For Sports Complex

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
The Newark City Council voted last week to look into building an arena for the New Jersey Nets and a soccer stadium for the Metrostars on part of a 118-acre site near the Ironbound section. Monday's 8-0 vote directs the Central Planning Board to determine whether the area is in need of redevelopment, the first step in eventually clearing the area, said Frank Bell, chief analyst for the City Clerk's office.
The city would acquire about 30 percent of the area for the arena and stadium, said Al Failla, the city's Director of Economic Development, and the rest would be used for redevelopment projects. 
 The Nets now play at the Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford. Amid speculation that the team would move to Newark, the team's new owners last month extended their lease with the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, the arena's owner, through 2007. However, under the contract, the team can leave the Meadowlands (though not the state) at any time without financial penalty. The Metrostars, who play at Giants Stadium, have a lease with the sports authority through 1999. STEVE STRUNSKY

GRAPHIC: Map of Newark highlighting proposed site for new sports complex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS; METROSTARS UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (93%); NEW JERSEY NETS (93%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS; METROSTARS NEW JERSEY NETS (93%); NEW JERSEY NETS (93%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; SOCCER; STADIUMS STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



560 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Before the Renovation, Consider the Returns

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years will appear the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT seems that every house in my neighborhood is being renovated. All summer, Dumpsters occupied one driveway after another, and an angry hive of power saws started buzzing every morning, though politely waiting until 8.
This gave my wife a case of Dumpster envy. As a result, we have redone our master bath, so that the door no longer bangs against the toilet. And now, she has her sights on the cluttered family room. 
 Boomers are nesting, striving to create the perfect space in which to raise their children. Kitchens are expanding, rooms are being added, bathrooms are going upscale. Americans spent an estimated $119 billion on home improvements last year, according to the Census Bureau, up from $46 billion in 1980, and contractors say the pace has picked up this year.
Not all renovations make financial sense, however. While fixing the bathroom was a no-brainer, my wife wants to add more toy storage in the family room, somehow forgetting the inclination of our children to ignore the latest in shelves for the convenience of the floor.
The decision to renovate is often an emotional one, and my wife has a lot of company in wanting to make our home more inviting. But from an economic standpoint, that can be dangerous.
"The motivation of Americans to improve their homes is so strong that they may make choices that are not good investments," said Paul Deffenbaugh, editor in chief of Remodeling magazine. "Depending on circumstances, remodeling is usually not as good as a 401(k)."
That may sound coldblooded, but the truth is, we should treat our houses as investments as well as homes if we want to afford those condos in Florida when we retire. And contractors say more people are realizing that.
In the 80's, homeowners were throwing money at remodeling projects with little concern for future value, said Joseph Matta of Masterwork Kitchens in Goshen, N.Y. "It was a frenzy," he said. "Now, boomers have bought more BMW's, kitchens, baths and second homes than in the history of mankind. They are experienced buyers. They want to see the return of their investment."
EVEN so, many of us have only the vaguest idea of what the financial returns might be on all the hammering and sawing. Sure, we have heard that improvements to bathrooms and kitchens, compared with other parts of the house, can add the most value, but we have no clue how much. And what about the other rooms? Imagine pouring money into stocks or mutual funds on such sketchy information.
Every year, Remodeling magazine studies the payoffs of various renovation projects. The 1998 results, which have just been published, can be a useful guide to where to put your money if you want to maximize your home's value.
For example, a new kitchen, on average, increases a home's resale value a year later by 87 percent of the construction cost. A minor kitchen renovation may be smarter, at 94 percent. The lowest figure is for a home office, at 64 percent.
Keep in mind that these numbers can change, so the return on anything you do today may vary by the time you are ready to sell. If the trend of working from home continues, for example, the figure for home offices may climb.
Brent and Terri Stuart of Goshen just finished a renovation that included a new kitchen and full bath. They spent about $60,000 on the two rooms -- $50,000 on the kitchen, $10,000 on the bathroom. By the magazine's count, they can expect to recoup $52,400 of their investment -- $43,500 from the kitchen and, at 89 percent, $8,900 from the bathroom.
Anne and James Moss of Warwick, N.Y., just finished renovating their house, a job that included spending about $50,000 on a kitchen, family room, full bath and a deck.
The return on the project was very important to the couple. They consulted with experts on what work would increase the value of their home the most. They learned, for example, that people in their area were increasingly looking for a unified family room and kitchen. While just remodeling the kitchen would have cost about $28,000, for an extra $16,000 they were able to expand the family room and then combine the two.
"The cost to redo the kitchen was still going to leave the house in a form that would not necessarily increase its marketability by much," Ms. Moss said. "But to do the total renovation was in fact going to increase the value of the house significantly."
Using the magazine's numbers, the Mosses should get back about $42,400 from their four main projects.
Here are the returns from other types of projects, as calculated from the magazine's survey: a two-story addition, 84 percent; an attic bedroom, 83 percent; renovation of a master suite, 82 percent; siding replacement, 71 percent; a new deck, 70 percent, and window replacement, 68 percent.
There is no getting away from how we feel about our homes and how they reflect who we are. But there is also no getting away from how important they are to our financial well-being. A bad housing decision can do a lot of damage. That's why the return on any renovation needs to be considered before the first nail goes in.
Then you can go wild on the family room with your eyes wide open.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Joel Priddy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASTERWORK KITCHENS (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); CENSUS (56%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES JAMES MOSS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



561 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Comeback Time For Latin America?

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
BATTERED by the panic that swept emerging markets in the wake of Asia's financial crisis and Russia's default, Latin America is a region that seems more sinned against than sinning.
But whatever the cause, the damage there has been real. For months, stock prices spiraled lower. And the sharp rise in interest rates on emerging-markets debt has closed the capital markets to even creditworthy Latin American companies and countries. 
 Now there are signs of life. Earlier this month, Brazil, the hardest hit, signed off on a $41.5 billion rescue package led by the International Monetary Fund. Last week Argentina became the first Latin American borrower since May to tap financial markets, when it sold $1 billion worth of bonds. Stock markets have rallied accordingly.
Jose M. Barrionuevo, director of global sovereign markets strategy at Lehman Brothers, took some time last week to talk about the region's prospects.
 
Q. Latin America spent the 1980's dealing with a foreign bank debt crisis. In the process, many countries made structural changes -- of a kind that countries in Asia are only now contemplating. So why has the region been hit so hard by this crisis?
 
A. Latin America was brought into the crisis because every time we have seen a real or potential slowdown in the United States, the region gets affected. The experience is that it doesn't matter where Latin America stands at a particular point in time. If the United States slows down, that has an impact.
 
Q. The steep rise in interest rates for emerging-markets borrowers has hurt. Are credit conditions improving for potential Latin borrowers?
 
A. We have seen a significant compression of interest-rate spreads over the last month, reflecting significant improvement in global credit conditions. That is almost entirely due to a very pre-emptive and forceful Federal Reserve, which understands better than anyone what is happening to global credit conditions.
You can't really claim that the crunch or credit squeeze is over, but there is a clear sense of improvement.
 
Q. Will the Fed's actions be enough to stave off a recession here and in Latin America?
 
A. We don't see a recession, but if you see a slowdown it will be more pronounced in Latin America. Clearly, Brazil will be depressed next year, with its economy contracting about 1 or 2 percent. But we don't see recessions in either Mexico or Argentina. Growth in those countries will be enough to keep the region from going into recession, assuming the U.S. economy keeps growing.
 
Q. You just came back from Brazil. Will this package cure the country's problems?
 
A. The package is good. The key issue is how quickly President Cardoso implements it.
A critical factor is the budget. If it is approved by the end of December you will have seen the Government's sense of urgency to deal with Brazil's problems that investors have been looking for for a long time. But even if that happens, Brazil is still looking at a recession. The key test for the program's strategy will be sometime in the first quarter, when political pressure to ease the economic pain will increase.
 
Q. So far this year, mutual funds that invest in Latin American stocks have fared worse than emerging-markets funds over all. If the region is starting to come back, is it time to consider Latin stocks?
 
A. From a fundamental perspective, people will invest in Latin America because the growth prospects there are high.
Nonetheless, we still have to look at these markets on a daily basis. And I don't think people should start looking to Latin equity markets until we get a clear sense of the direction in U.S. equities. Timing is a key.
 
Q. Which industries are likely to return to health the fastest?
 
A. Typically, you see utilities doing better in the early phases of recovery, then telecommunications and then manufacturing.
 
Q. Does that mean you like a company like Telebras of Brazil?
 
A. Telebras is a company we like, but it is too early to get in, because Brazil is going into a recession. If the rescue package is implemented correctly, the recession could bottom in the second quarter. At that point it might be worth taking a look.
 
Q. Are you concerned that the experience of the last couple of years has had an adverse effect on long-term demand for Latin American securities?
 
A. You could argue there has been some structural damage in that hedge funds have been hurt, that pension funds and mutual funds will not be back because they feel they may not be getting a return comparable to the risk they are taking. But one of the reasons people are still focused on these areas is that they are worried they will not be there when things turn around.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose M. Barrionuevo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: BARRIONUEVO, JOSE M; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



562 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2798 words

HEADLINE: If Deflation Hits, It's a Whole New Game

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
DEFLATION? Don't be ridiculous.
Most investors are quick to dismiss the very notion of deflation, an economic environment defined by widespread declines in the prices of goods and services. Accustomed to the inflation of the last half-century or so, they expect ever higher prices for their cars, their homes and -- perhaps most importantly -- their stocks. They simply cannot imagine a world where most items they buy behave the way computers do now, getting cheaper year after year.
But the truth is that a lot of smart people are thinking about the possibility -- and not just the Cassandras of the stock market who insist that a crash is coming. After a period in which the United States economy could seemingly do no wrong, with inflation low and corporate profits percolating nicely, there is now talk among economists, money managers and strategists about the odds of deflation washing up on these shores. 
 "We went from the New Paradigm to deflation, from June to August," said Byron R. Wien, an investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Even with the recent rally in stocks, he said, "the word 'deflation' is still on everybody's lips."
Like many other people who discuss it, Mr. Wien does not think deflation is likely to take hold. So why all the buzz? Because there are just enough signs of deflation -- like the flood of cheap steel into this country or the briefly negative yield on six-month Treasury bills in Japan -- to make people pause. Even Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has mentioned the subject, and his willingness to cut interest rates again last week suggests that he is more concerned about the economy contracting than about inflation.
If the average prognosticator is wrong, and the American economy does slide into deflation, investors are likely to have a hard time adjusting. For all the turns of the business cycle, deflation has been essentially nonexistent in the United States since the 1930's, and few investors have spent much time considering the impact of even a mild decline in prices -- an average of just a percentage point or two a year.
Few money managers are old enough to have had firsthand experience with deflation. "The problem is that nobody, with few exceptions, has ever seen a real deflationary environment," said Timothy Morris, the chief investment officer for the Bessemer Trust Company in New York. "We are not sure what it means."
Like inflation, deflation does not come in a single flavor. Economists are careful to distinguish, for example, between the deflation that wreaked havoc during the Great Depression and the more benign variety seen during the late 1800's.
The former type took a firm hold when demand fell everywhere, driving down prices and putting millions of people out of work. The latter coincided with the arrival of the Industrial Revolution in the United States: Prices fell because both production and productivity soared, and both workers and business could afford to keep demand strong. Some analysts see parallels between that period and today, given the advances occurring in technology.
But no one is sure. "This could be the deflationary abyss that everyone is talking about," said James Paulsen, chief investment officer of Norwest Investment Management in Minneapolis. Or, he said, "this could be the deflationary boom."
Already, portfolio managers are rethinking the kinds of stocks they own as they confront a changing environment: Many companies are finding that they cannot easily raise prices and are facing the deflationary effects of economic turmoil in regions like Southeast Asia.
The debate also provides a chance for investors to examine their own economic assumptions -- and those inherent in the choices made by their money managers.
There is no need to swoon. As noted by Richard B. Hoey, the chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation, investment mistakes tend to be made whenever people work with "giant investment scenarios" -- often in response to scattered current events that they extrapolate into overarching trends. Mr. Hoey remembers when people pontificated about triple-digit inflation in the early 1980's -- just as inflation was peaking.
Still, if something new is going on here, it makes sense to think about the implications.
 
Dangerous Deflation: 'Crash' Is the Word
What distinguishes the kind of deflation that destroys nearly everything in its path from the good deflation that marks a productive economy? Demand. As long as falling prices encourage people to keep buying in greater volumes, the overall economy can continue to hum along. When people stop buying, because they start losing their jobs or want to put off their purchases, deflation can spiral into depression.
Such potentially demand-destroying events are unfolding in countries like Indonesia. For now, the country is experiencing high inflation, because it devalued its currency, the rupiah. But Indonesia is awash in people who can no longer afford to consume -- unemployment is rising, with roughly a fifth of workers now unemployed -- and its economy is expected to contract by at least 15 percent this year. High rates of inflation like those in Indonesia, a result of higher prices for imports, can foreshadow deflation as countries sink into depression.
Japan also continues to wrestle with deflation. Wholesale prices have been flat or have fallen there for more than a year as the Government has struggled to re-ignite the economy. Last week, yet another recovery package was announced -- a plan to inject nearly $200 billion in tax cuts and Government spending into the economy.
The United States last saw devastating deflation during the Depression, when unemployment soared and many of those lucky enough to have jobs saw their wages fall faster than prices. But only the most alarmist thinkers paint a picture in which 1930's-style deflation would be unleashed on America today, when stocks and real estate are not nearly as overvalued as they were in the 1920's, the banking system is healthier and the Federal Reserve is likely to act more decisively.
"Monetary policy can prevent depressions," said Charles Calomiris, an economics and finance professor at Columbia University, "and we have a Fed that is extremely attuned to those kinds of threats."
One has to hope so. In a vicious deflation, assets like real estate and stocks go into free fall. Very little is spared, and the wreckage is magnified by the borrowing that companies and individuals undertook to buy those assets, as collateral collapses in value and margin calls on stocks mount.
"If it's ugly deflation, you'll want to get out of stocks," said David W. Tice, who runs his own money management firm in Dallas. He sees the United States facing sharp deflation -- a result of the popping of a credit-induced bubble -- that could wipe out about half the current value of the stock market, sending share prices to levels last seen in 1995. Among the biggest losers, he said, would be shares of credit-card companies and home-equity lenders, because people would be unable to pay their bills.
Investors seeking an escape from the carnage would have little recourse other than to squirrel away cash or invest in Treasury bonds. As the world witnessed earlier this year, when investors embrace quality, they hug Treasuries the hardest. "This is an asset class that would go up in price -- and up substantially," said William H. Gross, a managing director at the Pacific Investment Management Company in Newport Beach, Calif.
Other types of bonds, like corporates and municipals, would be riskier during steep deflation, Mr. Gross said. Though those, too, would benefit as interest rates fell, there would be more defaults as struggling companies or small municipalities could no longer make their interest payments. Less liquid than Treasuries, and without the backing of the Federal Government, these bonds might be shunned by investors.
 
Friendly Deflation: Time of Opportunity
Fortunately, bad deflation is less common than good, according to A. Gary Shilling, an economist and investment strategist in Springfield, N.J., who recently wrote a book on the subject, "Deflation" (Lakeview Publishing, 1998).
The United States has not seen benevolent deflation since the 1920's, when the country was roaring as automobiles became commonplace and many homes and factories received electrical service for the first time. But there are modern examples like Switzerland, where the stock market has posted average annual gains of 19 percent over the last five years despite a bout with falling prices prompted by the strength of the national currency.
This sort of deflation, like that seen during the Industrial Revolution, is marked by strong demand. Even when wages fall in such an environment, prices fall faster. From 1870 to 1894, for example, the real pay for nonfarm workers increased 29 percent, Mr. Shilling said, though in dollars not adjusted for deflation, pay fell 14 percent.
Like the rise of modern manufacturing in the last century, the technological gains of today show signs of bringing the kind of rapid increases in productivity that can lead to good deflation. Advances in computing, telecommunications, biotechnology and other fields have led to lower costs and improved productivity. And there are productivity gains in other sectors, too, Mr. Shilling said, pointing to the efficiencies of mass-market retailers like Wal-Mart and Home Depot. These companies have harnessed technology to cut prices -- thereby exerting pressure on competitors to lower their prices as well.
Like Mr. Shilling, Mr. Paulsen of Norwest describes a world where more and more products are like computers, steadily falling in price, and where every business is forced to compete in the way technology companies already do. Technology -- which Mr. Paulsen describes as this country's leading industry -- "was birthed under and lives under massive deflation every year," he said.
Mr. Shilling said companies like Microsoft, Intel and Cisco Systems have learned to thrive by figuring out how to drive demand, making rapid improvements to their technology and developing new markets.
And just as companies were forced to innovate during the late 1800's, any innovator of today, like Pfizer in pharmaceuticals, would be likely to prosper in deflationary times, according to Mr. Gross of Pacific Investment Management. He says companies that dominate their industries, like Microsoft in computer operating systems, would also have an advantage.
 
Can Stocks Move Up If Other Prices Fall?
The effects on investors from even mild deflation are the subject of sharp disagreement. While strategists and economists agree that a sudden swing from today's low inflation rates to deflation -- a move of several percentage points -- would rattle everyone, they are divided over how painful any transition would be.
Many strategists believe that stocks would suffer as corporate profits weakened, at least initially, in a recession inspired by incipient deflation. Even now, Southeast Asia's economic collapse is hurting American companies that must compete with a flood of inexpensive imports.
But if the United States skirted a recession, stocks of corporations that were trimmed to fighting form by the restructuring of the last two decades might escape essentially unscathed.
"The companies in the U.S. have been training for deflation for almost 20 years," Mr. Paulsen said.
One thing looks certain in this picture: As interest rates make their way lower, Treasury bonds will be attractive. They may also benefit from investor uncertainty.
Jonathan H. Francis, the head of global strategy for Putnam Investments, said that if deflation became an issue, "for better or worse there will be a reflexive move into fixed-income, until investors work through the calculus."
Depending on the severity of the deflation, and how calmly investors reacted, other types of bonds might also be worth considering.
Anyone worried about taxes would think about owning high-quality municipal bonds. High-quality corporates would also benefit from lower interest rates.
But for stocks and relatively risky bonds, like high-yield and most corporate issues, there could be casualties even during relatively mild deflation. The pain would be most notable among companies that are used to being able to raise prices to cover their mistakes, like taking on too much debt or holding too much inventory. "Inflation covers a multitude of sins," Mr. Shilling said.
Investors who want to prepare for deflation might want to avoid companies with high labor or capital costs -- which become more burdensome if there is pressure to reduce prices -- or companies that have loaded up on debt.
To protect profits in deflationary times, companies must either cut costs or generate more sales. The primary goal for the majority of businesses confronting deflation would be to gain market share, whether by wresting it away from competitors or by acquiring weaker companies. "Top-line growth will be a huge issue," Mr. Paulsen said.
The high-stress environment of deflation could favor large companies, he added. Big companies have more leeway than small ones to reduce their costs, he said, because they can invest in technology to increase their productivity and can take better advantage of economies of scale. Small companies have fared better in times of inflation, he said.
Moreover, some pockets of the economy are likely to remain somewhat immune to deflation.
Investors who think deflation may be coming, whether devastating or benevolent, should focus on industries "where demand is very stable and not terribly price-sensitive," said George W. Jacobsen Jr., chief investment officer at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen, a money management firm in New York.
He pointed to areas that investors have traditionally considered safe from economic upheaval, like certain food and entertainment businesses. Even so, he said, companies that depend on the strength of their brands to let them charge higher prices than the competition could be vulnerable. For example, the Kellogg Company is already seeing its profits hurt because rivals are luring away customers with lower-cost breakfast foods.
Other areas that might withstand deflation include utilities, though deregulation is making them face more competition; military suppliers, which build profits into their contracts with the Government, and small companies that concentrate on narrow niches where competition is limited, according to Diego Espinosa, a portfolio manager at Scudder Kemper Investments.
The outlook for real estate, which has traditionally been crushed by deflation, would be mixed if the United States fell into a mild deflation sometime soon. Prices for commercial real estate do not look as high now as in past economic upswings, according to managers and strategists. Shopping malls and hotels could be hurt if people felt more like saving their money than sprucing up their wardrobes or going on vacations, but rental apartments could be in greater demand if falling values made houses no longer look like good investments, Mr. Shilling said.
 
Economic History Isn't Always a Guide
Mild deflationary breezes, at least, are already wafting across the American economy, and some portfolio managers have their fingers to the wind. At Bessemer Trust, for example, managers have shifted money toward companies whose main market is the United States, because they believe that consumers here will keep buying no matter what. They have trimmed holdings in companies that sell many goods or services in Southeast Asia, where the drought in demand is likely to drag on.
Money managers have also distinguished between companies that benefit from cheaper raw materials, like apparel makers, and those, including oil companies and steel makers, that continue to be hurt by a fall in commodity prices and could be damaged further by a potential rush of imports from foreign producers. And despite another interest-rate cut last week, intended to loosen credit and keep the economy jumping, some professional investors are pondering the prospect of an economic slowdown, whether prompted by deflation or by increases in labor costs.
But a lot of thinking -- including the thinking about just how serious a threat deflation is -- remains to be done. The past, of course, is not necessarily prologue: What was seen in the United States more than a century ago -- or in Japan or Switzerland today -- may bear very little resemblance to what happens here in the future. Confronting the unknown, acknowledged Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley, money managers "really don't know what to buy."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Doomsday Scenarios"
A growing chorus of economists and market strategists warns that deflation poses the biggest threat to Americans' prosperity. But deflation scenarios differ in their likely significance for investors. Here are three:
 
DEVASTATING DEFLATION
This kind of deflation, reminiscent of the Great Depression, is marked by prices that fall because there is too little demand from consumers and companies. There are precious few places for investors to hide.
 
Stocks
No winners here, as stocks of nearly every description become mired in the deflationary morass. The outlook remains grim until the economy can be re-started.
 
Bonds
Treasury bonds are big winners as interest rates fall and investors rush to quality. Investors in high tax brackets can also consider the highest quality municipal bonds, although they may be very volatile.
 
Other investments
Only the safest investments can withstand the downward spiral. Cash looks mighty attractive since a dollar buys more tomorrow than it does today. But real estate is a losing proposition.
 
DEFLATIONARY BOOM
This is the kind of deflation experienced by the United States during the Industrial Revolution. As the accompanying charts show, the manufacturing economy expanded dramatically while prices fell steeply. Consumers and businesses kept buying, so the economy grew. Some analysts say technology industries are already in such a phrase.
 
Stocks
Stocks manage nice gains, although the environment becomes riskier for also-rans. The companies that prosper are likely to be those that push innovation and can benefit from improved productivity. Again, think technoology.
 
Bonds
Bonds generally do well, and investors may be able to widen their horizons to include high-quality corporate and municipal bonds.
 
Other investments
Real estate prices will decline somewhat, but there should be no debacle.
 
 
LIVING WITH DEFLATION
Even mild deflation can create havoc as companies, consumers and investors adapt to new expectations. But if the economy is managed well through the transition, the adjustment need not be too painful.
 
Stocks
Companies that can increase revenues by developing new markets or taking business away from competitors can do well. Look for low-cost producers or companies in industries that tend not to feel much pricing pressure. Stay away from companies with high costs and lots of debt.
 
Bonds
Once interest rates have fallen, bonds should remain attractive, but limiting risk still makes sense.
 
Other investments
The outlook for real estate is mixed: While today's valuations do not seem too high, owners who have borrowed excessively may be in trouble, and any weakening of demand will immediately hurt prices. REED ABELSON (pg. 9)
 
Chart: "Investing in Deflationary Times"
A. Gary Shilling, an economist who has studied deflation, says it is becoming the essential characteristic of the global economy. In the United States, which has experienced a half- century of inflation, a deflationary economy would initially cause stock prices to tumble, he says, and then create new winners and losers among investments.
 
SHILLING'S WINNERS
-- High-quality bonds
-- American stocks in general
-- Utilities with competitive-minded managements and a reasonable regulatory climate
-- Investments in companies concentrating on:
* Semiconductors, computers, telecommunications, biotechnology and the Internet
* Importing and distribution of consumer essentials
* Consumer essentials with strong brand names
* Goods with effective patent protection
* Goods and services appealing to upscale consumers, including recreation and foreign and domestic travel
* Small luxuries
* Financial services
* Manufactured housing
* Rental apartments
* Productivity-enhancing equipment and software, temporary employees and consulting
-- The dollar
 
SHILLING'S LOSERS
-- Stocks and bonds of weak-currency countries
-- Junk bonds
-- Stocks in old-technology companies, especially those in discretionary consumer goods and services like autos, appliances, site-built housing, air travel and aircraft manufacturing
-- Industrial and agricultural commodities
-- Investments in:
* Most builders, contractors, developers and lenders, except those serving upscale consumers or oriented toward enhancing productivity
* Companies with plant and equipment that increase capacity, rather than productivity
* Multinationals
* Farm equipment makers
* Credit card issuers
 
(Source: Deflation (Lakeview Publishing, 1998))(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%); BESSEMER TRUST CO NA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%); 

PERSON: SHILLING, GARY; ABELSON, REED ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



563 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 4; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: A Fallen Club King Tries a Comeback

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
PETER GATIEN wants to make you a nice cup of hot cocoa.
A magnate of New York night life, he was acquitted on charges that he operated two of his clubs as virtual drug supermarkets, and he officially reopened the Limelight this weekend. He is billing the former Episcopal church in Chelsea as a community-friendly, arts-oriented complex that will feature puppet shows, photography exhibitions, a juice and coffee bar, and a courtyard sandbox for toddlers. 
 Chastened by his near brush with prison and still dogged by community opposition, Mr. Gatien is trying to rehabilitate the Limelight's wild, drug-suffused reputation -- and his own tarnished image -- by offering an unlikely array of wholesome activities that will keep the landmark church open long after the last inebriated club kid has stumbled home at dawn. "We want the neighborhood to feel like this is the kind of place they can come to for lunch or for a cup of coffee," said Mr. Gatien, who still faces tax-evasion charges and the possible loss of his liquor license. "We don't want to be self-serving."
Has the man whose anything-goes megaclubs embodied the excessive 1980's undergone a religious conversion? Those who live near the club, which is at Avenue of the Americas and 20th Street, are not convinced. "Nice try," said Laura Michaels, executive director of the Flatiron Alliance, a local civic organization. "We'll believe it when we see it."
Until his arrest two years ago on Federal charges that he allowed the sale of Ecstasy and other drugs at both the Limelight and the Tunnel, Mr. Gatien, whose empire included the Palladium and Club USA, was impervious to outside scrutiny. "Peter was truly a mogul, a nightlife czar," David Hershkovitz, editor of Paper magazine, said. "In many ways he represented the spirit of New York before it was cleaned up by Giuliani."
Bruised and nearly bankrupted by his legal battles, Mr. Gatien is not the club king he once was. Last summer, he was forced to sell the Limelight to a developer, who is leasing him back the building. The Palladium and Club USA have been leveled, and the Tunnel, while commercially successful, draws the kind of youthful, baggy-pants crowd that scares off models and their followers, a demographic most Manhattan clubs covet.
The Limelight's return is not only a chance for Mr. Gatien to thumb his nose at those who predicted his demise, but also an opportunity to recapture some of his lost glory. The born-again Limelight, he predicts, will usher in a new era of clubbing, one that grafts high-minded culture onto a traditional big-box dance hall. Rotating art shows will grace the walls, avant-garde dance troupes will make appearances in the soaring chapel, and patrons will be able to gab in a smoke-free, oxygenated cafe. "We want to help new talent, incubate new deejays, artists and performers," he said.
Although the club has operated sporadically since last summer, it is still a work in progress. Mr. Gatien says he has spent $1 million so far renovating the church interior -- a "reinvention," as he calls it -- but much remains to be done. A half-dozen announced grand-opening dates have come and gone since his acquittal last February, and the club's heavily touted Giger Room, created by H. R. Giger, the German sci-fi designer behind the creatures in the "Alien" movies, is still under construction. Another opening, which Mr. Gatien promises will be celebrity-soaked, is scheduled for Dec. 3.
While Mr. Gatien says the extended soft opening is intentional, the delays have only deepened suspicions within the nightlife business that he is floundering financially. "I'm not hearing any buzz about the place on the street, and in the club world, that's not a good thing," said Mark Baker, a promoter who worked at the Tunnel and now helps fill the V.I.P. room at Life, the sprawling dance club on Bleecker Street.
Besides his unabated legal troubles and the uncertainty over Limelight's liquor license, Mr. Gatien's biggest challenge will be keeping New York's party crowd interested in a club first christened 15 years ago (with an opening bash that had Andy Warhol as its host). Although it drew a parade of glamor-drenched names and gossip-column mentions in its early years, the velvet rope came down in the late 80's as AIDS and the recession thinned the ranks of party hoppers. It was the open-door policy of the 90's that prosecutors said helped turn the club into a haven for Ecstasy-gulping adolescents.
Many of Mr. Gatien's competitors are eagerly predicting that Limelight will be a failure, much like Studio 54's stillborn revival a few years ago. Some say Mr. Gatien's inability to hire the promoters-of-the moment, his shaky finances and abundant bad blood in the club scene all conspire against him. "That place is like a haunted house with a lot of ghosts rattling around and no exorcists in sight," said Steve Lewis, a former Limelight promoter who runs Life, the only dance club in Manhattan that could be considered competition. "I give the place three weeks and it's over."
Limelight's huge capacity, 2,000 people, presents an additional challenge. If the Fabulous crowd can't be persuaded to return week after week, the door policy will have to be liberalized, which will bring the club's cachet down a notch. "It's sad to say, but in this day and age, the A crowd doesn't want to mix with the masses," said Noel Ashman, the owner of Veruka, a restaurant and lounge that has done well by excluding hoi polloi. "Still, Peter has a good sense of the business, and he will find a way to pack the club."
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Gatien, 47, chain-smoked Newports as he slowly paced around his office on the third floor of the former vestry. He seemed both excited and preoccupied, and bitterness over last year's "Government witch hunt," as he calls it, continues to haunt him.
His trademark eye patch, which covered an eye damaged in a teen-age hockey accident, has been replaced by green-tinted glasses. It was insurance money from the mishap, $17,000, that helped finance his first nightclub venture near his hometown, Carelton, Ontario. The club, an old tavern he renovated, opened with an unknown local band called Rush.
Those who know him say Mr. Gatien is passionate about the nightlife business, and not just because he sees clubs as ego-boosting opportunities to hobnob with celebrity. To him, they are valuable incubators of cutting-edge culture and places where different types of people can mix. He employs a full-time creative staff, is quick to hire or promote unheralded talent, and has a keen interest in new music. "Peter is a master of seeing the creative gifts of younger people and the influence they can have on trends," Mr. Baker said.
Mr. Gatien, for example, is widely credited with importing techno from the outer boroughs, and unlike many club owners, he is not phobic of bridge-and-tunnel patrons. "I think these folks can be far more sophisticated and on the mark than Manhattanites," he said.
As he spoke, workmen were tearing apart a series of nearby rooms.
The new design, which Irv Johnson, the club director, describes as a mix of "gothic, industrial and high-tech," includes a glass-topped bar over flowing water, a generous helping of loungelike sofas, and unisex bathrooms. Banks of video monitors, a nod to the 80's, and giant lightboxes for oversize transparencies, fill front rooms.
The entrance hall, a macabre statement on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's quality-of-life crackdown, includes black clarions, a black steeple that hangs from the ceiling, and two walk-in freezers with law books, funerary bouquets and angel wings inside blocks of ice. Julian LaVerdiere, a partner in the design firm Big Room, said the entrance hall's anti-establishment theme was originally slated for the entire club, but Mr. Gatien, aware of his vulnerability, scaled back the provocation.
Mr. Gatien and his wife, Alessandra, are still facing state charges that they failed to pay $1.3 million in taxes, and the State Liquor Authority is considering whether or not to renew the club's license. (Even though the club was shuttered by police in 1996, it is still operating under its old license.) In weighing its decision, the agency will take into account neighborhood sentiment, the tax-evasion indictments and even the drug charges that were dismissed by a jury. "The burden of proof is not as strict as it is in a criminal hearing," Thomas G. McKeon, the authority's counsel, said.
Last week, Community Board 5 voted to oppose a new license for the club, although it agreed to revisit the issue in three months. "The Limelight has caused this neighborhood extreme distress for 13 years," Lola Finkelstein, chairwoman of the board, said, citing noise and drugged and drunken patrons who wreaked havoc. "We are, however, willing to give them a second chance."
Mr. Gatien seems intent on keeping the community happy. "Hopefully, we'll be able to coexist peacefully," he said. Ms. Gatien, the mother of the couple's 4-year-old son, Xander, is overseeing the outdoor playground, its community-oriented programs, and the juice and coffee bar, to be called Xander's Window.
It remains to be seen whether this eclectic mix will fly, but the club's promoters, among them the singer Donovan Leitch, say that New York is ready for another dance club. Maya Ben-Avner, a promoter who is overseeing the club's performance roster, said: "Everyone is so bored with what's out there. We want to bring back the old days of club-going, when designers and filmmakers, uptown and down, gay and straight, all mixed." She said the door policy would be tight but not impenetrable.
If Limelight wants a taste-making crowd, it has gotten off to a good start. On Friday night, Liz Cohen, a publicity agent, and Lauren Dupont, a fashion editor at Vogue, had their joint birthday party at Limelight. The affair, which included several hundred of their friends, was a gift from Mr. Gatien, who also provided two hours of open bar and a champagne waterfall. Last year, the two had their party at Bowery Bar, which yielded a prodigious amount of media coverage.
At first, Ms. Cohen, 28, was hesitant to accept Limelight's offer "because of the bad press, the drugs and the club kids," she said. "But when we saw the space," she continued, "we were blown away."
Her crowd, she said, is one that Limelight undoubtedly wants to call its own: young, hip and sprinkled with names like Von Furstenberg, Lauren, Paltrow and Hawke. "We're really a great mix of New York," she said. "A little bit of everything."
Of course, too much diversity is not always a good thing. Ms. Cohen said she was assured that an iron-clad door policy would be in effect for the benefit of her 600 invited guests. "I mean, I don't exactly want guys with stockings on their head crashing my party," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Gatien says he wants to be a good neighbor. "Nice try," said a local leader. "We'll believe it when we see it." (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LIMELIGHT (NYC CLUB) NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIMELIGHT (NYC CLUB) NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (76%); DANCE (76%); TAX FRAUD (73%); ARRESTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); ECSTASY (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (52%); 

PERSON: GATIEN, PETER; JACOBS, ANDREW PETER GATIEN (93%); PETER JACOBS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



564 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS with ANTHONY MAZZOCCHI;
Rebuilding a Platform For the American Worker

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
AS the driving spirit behind the Labor Party, a fledgling left-of-center group that hopes someday to be a political heavyweight, Anthony Mazzocchi presided over its constitutional convention last weekend in Pittsburgh.
Mr. Mazzocchi, the party's national organizer, helped develop its political platform, full of proposals certain to irk corporate America: mandatory four-week vacations, a single-payer universal health care system like Canada's, rollbacks of free-trade agreements, and a constitutional amendment guaranteeing every American a job that pays a living wage. Like many of the union stalwarts in the party, Mr. Mazzocchi, an official with the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union, freely uses class-tinged language that seems a throwback to the 1930's. STEVEN GREENHOUSE
 
Q. How would you describe the Labor Party and its goals? 

A. I remember a period when the labor movement helped shape the nation's debate. I would like to see where the labor movement is once again the driving force for the future direction of the nation.
The Labor Party is a working-class party. I don't think we have to be afraid of class. Our interests diverge from those of the corporations. This is a corporate economy and we're not going to change that overnight. Our vision is that of a social democratic party similar to the ones in Europe.
 
Q. You and other Labor Party members spend a lot of your time denouncing corporations. Are you anti-corporate?
 
A. Yes, that's fair to say. Our attitude is anti-corporate, although we're not calling for the elimination of corporations. We're saying corporations have had their way at the expense of the average person. I think of how far the wealth of the nation has shifted to a small percentage of the population.
Corporations can't change. A corporation has to act in its own self-interest. It has nothing to do with evil intentions or good intentions. Its own self-interest dictates it has to be exploitative. It has no loyalty to its workers. It has to maximize its return.
We're saying corporate behavior has to be regulated with a political force that says, "This is what you can do; this is what you can't do." We're saying, if you want to lay off people, those people have to have a guaranteed income. If you want to move your plant to Mexico and lay off your workers, you have to pay for those you leave behind.
 
Q. Your platform often demands things that seem politically or economically impossible. For instance, is it really possible to have full employment that guarantees every American a job with a living wage?
 
A. I grew up in the Depression. On Dec. 7, 1941, my sister was getting married, and that evening there was a war. And, lo and behold! A country without much capital available mobilized capital, and it was the most incredible organizational feat in the history of the world.
I come out of a generation that saw you can have full employment. We know it's possible in this society. We're opposed to welfare; everyone should be able to work.
 
Q. What does Jesse Ventura's election as a third-party candidate for Minnesota Governor mean for the Labor Party?
 
A. We're convinced there's going to be an alternative political party -- it's either going to come from us or from the right. There are a lot of right-wing populists who say things that resonate with working people. It could get very ugly. We thought we ought to be able to create an alternative.
 
Q. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is trying hard to work with the Democratic Party and has had some success with issues like raising the minimum wage and preventing new free-trade agreements. What do you have against the Democratic Party?
 
A. If there was a Republican President, the Democrats never would have allowed Nafta to pass. But a Democratic Party that has the Presidency has delivered GATT, Nafta, welfare reform -- it's the first time since the New Deal that we've dismantled the notion that we should provide income for those who are helpless. It's total abdication.
The Democratic Party has not initiated any pro-worker legislation over the past 25 years. Democratic governors have dumped public employees, cut budgets, privatized, attacked public workers. Hundreds of thousands are out of work as a result. I think the perception is there's very little difference between the two major parties.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: MAZZOCCHI, ANTHONY; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



565 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
New Home on the (Texas) Range

BYLINE: By STEVE BARNES 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

 BODY:
THE second-richest woman in America is now apparently the second-richest Texan.
Alice Walton, the only daughter (she has three brothers) of the late Sam Walton, has acquired a Texas driver's license and 3,200 acres in the hill country near Mineral Wells, west of Dallas. The compound includes a 4,400-square-foot main house, four other houses, a pool and outbuildings. It is a fit spread for Ms. Walton, a lifelong equestrian who also trains and breeds work horses for ranchers. It is also a refuge, after a decade of fitful efforts in her native Arkansas to become a regional leader in money management, economic development and investment banking. Last month, she resigned as chief executive of the Llama Company, her investment firm, while remaining chairman and majority shareholder. She opened Llama in Fayetteville in 1988 with $25 million of her own capital. 
 Hard feelings linger, according to Arkansas business leaders who request anonymity for fear of offending the Walton family. "There's the sense around here that she feels mistreated, so she's packing up and moving to Texas," one senior executive sighed.
In a phone interview, Ms. Walton did not explain her decision, but said of her new address: "I feel so totally at home. I love it." A watercolorist who collects early American art, she rhapsodized over the paint that was being applied to her new home that day. "Yellow-gold, Southwestern, soft, soft, soft," she said. For all her artistic ardor, though, she has no fashion pretensions. Asked if she had a favorite designer, she laughed. "I'm a cowgirl," she said. "I like jeans and boots."
But she left no doubt she would stay in charge at Llama. As she described her vision for the firm, she peppered her comments with digs at Wall Street. "What I want are a group of people who have financial expertise but don't think like an investment banker, who have operating knowledge, who understand our clients," said Ms. Walton, who is 49. "Most investment banks aren't built that way. They're built around 28-year-old guys who don't have the sense God gave a goose."
It's not as if Ms. Walton has to work for a living. Her stake in Wal-Mart is worth an estimated $11 billion, placing her second in wealth to her mother, Helen, among women and probably second, in Texas, to Michael Dell, the founder of Dell Computer, who is worth about $13 billion.
Ms. Walton may miss her thousand acres of Ozark lakefront near the headquarters of the Wal-Mart chain, which was founded by her father. But she will also leave behind the state's income tax. (Texas has none.)
Lynn DeVault, her chosen successor as Llama's chief, said that annual earnings are "in the millions" and that Llama has $500 million in investments and loans and $300 million under management. Llama has had successes, financing a bond issue for a northwest Arkansas airport near Wal-Mart's home -- President Clinton, dedicating the airport this month, singled out Ms. Walton for praise -- and helping to finance an employee buyout that kept the Hathaway Shirt Company of Maine alive. Last month, Llama acquired Boston Capital Mortgage, since renamed Llama Capital Mortgage. Llama's real estate and corporate finance branches, Ms. DeVault said, had record returns in 1997.
But in Arkansas, Llama is more often noted for its setbacks. In February, it sold a sports management division, and three months later withdrew as underwriter for two state bond issues. "No one has ever understood what Llama was trying to do," said an investment banker in Little Rock. "It's always been whatever was the idea of the week."
Ms. Walton's company has also suffered from executive turnover. Don Clanton, a former Llama executive, calls her a poor manager. "She becomes impatient," he said. But she is knowledgeable, he added: "She gets to the bottom line about as fast as anyone I've seen."
Ms. DeVault says any turnover resulted from growth. As for Ms. Walton's management skills, the ranch-horse enterprise, Ms. DeVault added, is "very much a business."
"She's not a kid with a pony in the backyard," Ms. DeVault said.
MS. WALTON traveled to her new backyard along a sometimes rough course. Her father, in his autobiography, described her as "volatile." She initially worked as a Wal-Mart buyer and later became a broker at E. F. Hutton's New Orleans office. There, she ran afoul of the Securities and Exchange Commission over options trading and in 1979 accepted a six-month suspension without acknowledging any improprieties. She soon returned to Arkansas.
She has also endured two divorces and more than 30 surgeries to repair a leg crushed when the car she was driving overturned in Mexico in 1983. Six years later, she was held blameless when an Arkansas woman stepped into the path of her Porsche and died.
Then, last January, her sport utility vehicle crashed near her Arkansas home. She was charged with drunken driving and resisting arrest.
"You know who I am, don't you? You know my last name?" an officer quoted Ms. Walton as saying. She said she had no memories of the incident because of a concussion.
Despite hiring two prominent lawyers and a public relations firm, she was convicted, fined $925, sentenced to 28 hours of community service and ordered to undergo counseling.
Ms. DeVault said Ms. Walton's move to Texas was not an effort to escape her past. In any case, Ms. Walton will not be leaving the Walton empire too far behind. There in Mineral Wells is Wal-Mart Store No. 804.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the dedication of an Arkansas airport, Alice Walton, daughter of the Wal-Mart founder, received a gift from Stan Green of the airport board. Her company helped finance the project. (Tom Ewart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (81%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (81%); LLAMA CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINERAL WELLS (TEX); ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAMMALS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); HORSES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%); 

PERSON: WALTON, ALICE L; BARNES, STEVE MICHAEL DELL (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



566 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
In an Odd Turn, Officials Are Pushing Welfare

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
DON'T gasp, but the bureaucrats are rolling out the welcome mats at some of the nation's welfare offices again.
They are beckoning the working poor and courting the thousands of single mothers abandoning the welfare rolls. And the message to those struggling to survive without government checks? "Don't forget to apply for Medicaid and food stamps!" 
 This touting of public charity may seem startling, even contradictory, at a time when government officials are pushing work, not welfare. But food stamps and Medicaid are considered vital entitlements that keep working people off welfare and the newly employed from slipping back on. And when Federal officials noticed a surprising dip in the number of food stamp recipients earlier this year, they prodded states to act.
In a flurry of recent memos, Federal officials told states to conduct "aggressive outreach" and regional officers to crack down on wayward localities. The fear is that local governments may be blocking access to food stamps and Medicaid as they persuade people to give up the dole, snatching a valuable crutch from welfare mothers hobbling toward self-reliance.
New York City, for instance, drew intense scrutiny earlier this month with its practice of delaying Medicaid and food stamp applications until a second visit to the welfare office. (Federal law requires them to be handed out without delay.)
But officials in some states are also wringing their hands over computers that sometimes improperly terminate food stamps and Medicaid benefits. And federal officials want to clear the clouds of confusion in poor communities where some believe that ending old-style welfare means an end to all government assistance.
Already, the Federal Government's urgings -- coupled with local concerns for the poor -- have persuaded some states to do the unthinkable: vigorously hawk public aid. Maryland, where colorful brochures about Medicaid and food stamps are stacked in its welfare waiting rooms, now plans to mail that information to the 2,500 single mothers who leave the welfare rolls each month.
South Dakota has sent hundreds of letters to food stamp recipients to make sure they know about Medicaid. And in Wisconsin, which has stationed Medicaid and food stamp workers in some hospitals, Milwaukee is considering revamping its application process altogether.
Instead of meeting first with workers who discourage applications for welfare, clients in Milwaukee may soon stop first at the desks of officials who will discuss their rights to food stamps and Medicaid, a shift sought by advocates for the poor.
"We're learning that you need to let people know they're eligible," said Jean Rogers, an administrator at Wisconsin's Department of Workforce Development. "Both of these issues speak to being able to hold a job," she said. "If you're sick, you can't hold down a job. If you're hungry the same applies."
But not everyone has joined the rush to embrace food stamps, which are financed entirely by the Federal Government, and Medicaid, which is partly financed by the Federal Government. Some local officials are still ambivalent, particularly about pushing food stamps, a benefit tainted, to some, by welfare's sour smell of failure.
Federal officials have taken pains to distinguish between the two. By law, municipalities can discourage people from applying for welfare. Food stamps and Medicaid, however, are still Federal entitlements and applications must be offered without delay.
But for some officials, the dividing line is still blurry. Texas, for instance, gives awards to welfare offices that discourage the largest numbers of people from applying for welfare and food stamps. (State officials say they are now reconsidering the reward for food stamps.)
And in New York City, where applications are generally offered only on a second visit, officials protest that offering easier access to food stamps and Medicaid would damage their efforts to destroy the culture of dependency in poor neighborhoods.
"Some states have not bought in at a philosophical level that they should make sure people get food stamps and Medicaid," said Liz Schott, an analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research group in Washington.
 FOR the most part, it's not intentional," said Ms. Schott, who has studied the issue. "It's not that they don't want people to get food stamps or Medicaid. But this zeal to reduce the welfare caseloads hasn't been separated from food stamps and Medicaid."
Such concerns bubbled up earlier this year when advocates for the poor began noticing that the number of food stamp recipients had fallen by 25 percent since 1996, the year the new welfare law was signed, a decline that Federal officials say cannot be explained by the improved economy. (Comparable Medicaid statistics are not yet available. In New York, declines in Medicaid and food stamps have been similar.)
At first, some officials thought people were finding jobs and no longer needed food stamps, said Julie Paradis, an undersecretary at the Department of Agriculture. But a closer look at the statistics -- and conversations with advocates for the poor -- convinced Federal officials that many people were simply struggling without benefits, she said. Most local officials now believe the downward trend must be slowed, she added.
Those officials are now reaching out to applicants who are confused by the new law or were deterred by overzealous welfare workers, and to applicants and to those who are simply too ashamed to admit they still need help after finding low-wage work.
Hoping to attract people too proud to apply for Medicaid because they associate it with the stigma of welfare, South Dakota even took the word "Medicaid" off the covers of its promotional brochures, replacing it with the words "medical help."
"I'm really heartened by their commitment," said Ms. Paradis. "They really view the programs as something that should be available to families."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); FOOD STAMPS; MEDICAID FOOD STAMPS (91%); MEDICAID (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); CHARITIES (72%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



567 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Raising the Stakes On the Waterfront

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE 

 BODY:
THE megaships are coming. But where will they dock?
A new generation of immense cargo ships, more than 1,100 feet long and bearing up to 6,675 containers, is poised to capture a significant share of ocean shipping, but no port in the United States is now fully equipped to handle the ships when they are loaded to capacity. 
 Five ports on the Atlantic coast are competing to be the megaship destination for one of the world's largest shipping lines, the alliance of Maersk, owned by the A. P. Moller conglomerate of Denmark, and the Sealand unit of the CSX Corporation. Maersk/Sealand is expected to winnow the list to two finalists this week and make its final selection by the end of the year. At stake are billions of dollars of trade, investment and employment that will flow to and through the main deep-water port for half a continent.
Maersk/Sealand, whose current lease in the Port of New York and New Jersey expires in 2000, wants its next home to provide 25 years' exclusive use of a fully modernized terminal with easy road and rail access and waterways 50 feet deep, matching major world ports like Rotterdam, in the Netherlands, and Singapore. Operations that fit the bill cannot now be found anywhere on North America's Atlantic coast, said John M. Pisani, director of ports and domestic shipping for the Maritime Administration of the Transportation Department.
"The United States, the greatest trading nation in the world, cannot handle the greatest ships in the world," Mr. Pisani said. Continued absence of a megaship port on each coast "would be a critical blow to the nation's ability to compete in world trade," he added. Ninety percent of United States imports arrive by sea, and the Defense Department relies on commercial ports and transportation centers to supply military operations overseas.
An expansion project is already under way in the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif., that will allow handling of megaships there in about five years, Mr. Pisani said. On the Atlantic side, the port will be chosen from among New York/New Jersey; Baltimore; Norfolk, Va.; Halifax, Nova Scotia; and the former naval base at Quonset Point, R.I. The eventual winner will have to spend heavily to prepare.
Three dozen of the new giant cargo ships -- none built in the United States or operating under an American flag -- are already in service and 45 more are on order, some of them bigger than current models. Megaships already carry about 25 percent of the world's ocean-borne containerized freight, including 5 to 10 percent of United States imports and exports (by scraping in and out of existing ports with partial loads). By 2010, they will carry up to 40 percent of world container cargo and about a third of United States foreign trade, excluding bulk commodities like oil and grain, according to M. John Vickerman, a transportation consultant in Reston, Va.
The engine driving the big ships' role is cost: Ton for ton of cargo, the bigger the ship, the cheaper it is to operate.
"Given their economy of scale, in the future the megaships will increase their market share and make as few port calls as possible," said Kurt J. Nagle, president of the American Association of Port Authorities.
Maersk/Sealand's search is precipitating a shakeout among North American ports that will be echoed when each of the three other global shipping alliances -- groups led by P & O Nedloyd, Neptune Orient Lines and Hanjin -- move to establish megaterminals of their own, Mr. Vickerman predicted. Ports that do not win one or more of the big terminals will be limited to secondary roles in a hub-and-spoke system like that used in the airline industry -- and will wither further without modernization.
Upgrading a port to receive megaships can take a decade or more -- and cost billions of dollars. Wharves must be equipped with a dozen or more huge container cranes, which can cost $6 million apiece. Efficient handling of the huge flow of freight to and from the ships requires complexes of terminals equipped with computerized tracking systems. Quonset lacks all of these; Baltimore and Halifax need upgrades in these areas.
Cargo must be able to flow conveniently to and from the port on high-speed truck routes and modern rail lines with tracks and bridge clearances that can accommodate containers stacked two-high on flatcars. Quonset's land transportation links are rudimentary, and Norfolk and Halifax are each served by only one railroad. Halifax is also hundreds of miles farther than the other competitors from the continent's major population centers.
Shipping channels and berths must be dredged to a depth of at least 50 feet, a job that poses thorny environmental problems in some ports. New York Harbor would be especially difficult to dredge: Bedrock would have to be blasted in some places to reach the necessary depth, and sediments on the harbor floor are heavily contaminated with industrial toxins dumped over the last century. Baltimore, Norfolk and Quonset would also need dredging, though the work would be easier; only Halifax is now deep enough for a fully loaded megaship.
A lack of coordination among shipping lines, land carriers, environmental groups and port and government officials has long plagued efforts to keep American ports up to world standards, especially since the 1980's, when most transportation industries were deregulated.
Port and surface transportation officials complain that while 75 percent of the operating cost of a cargo ship is spent on land activity, they did not get to participate in planning the megaships.
"The carriers' approach to the port is, 'We build bigger ships; you figure out how to handle them,' " said Ralph F. Cox, a transportation consultant in Boston.
As a result, port development has lagged far behind ship development. "The advances in vessel technology have dramatically pointed up the shortcomings in the U.S. infrastructure," said Henry S. Marcus, chairman of the Ocean Systems Management Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
FEDERAL spending on port development and on freight transportation in general has been limited, Mr. Nagle said. The $221.6 million for ports in the current budget falls short of the $330 million needed just to sustain current maintainence projects, he said. The ports themselves spend about $1.5 billion a year on capital improvements.
Other than making lease payments, the shipping lines generally do not help pay for improvements. But they have the upper hand, because they have more alternatives. Maersk/Sealand, for instance, feels no need to restrict itself to United States ports to serve American markets, said Tommy Thompsen, president of Maersk. Feeding goods into the United States from ports in Canada or Mexico would do just as well.
As Mr. Pisani of the Transportation Department put it, "The carriers can move their assets around; the ports can't."

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart/Map: "Bidding for a Megaterminal"
Five Atlantic ports are vying to be chosen as the destination for a new generation of giant container ships like the Regina Maersk, above, that experts say will eventually dominate oceanic freight shipping. Maersk/Sealand, the leading global shipping alliance, is expected to narrow the field to two this week.
 
Halifax
1997 cargo volume: 392,000 containers
 
ADVANTAGES
-- Deep channel
-- Excellent rail access
-- Cranes and terminals need only minor upgrade
-- Closest to Europe
 
DISADVANTAGES
-- Small local market
-- Far from Northeast and Midwest markets of the U.S.
-- Only one railroad
 
Quonset Point
1997 cargo volume: 0
 
ADVANTAGES
-- Plenty of land
-- Close to Northeast cities
 
DISADVANTAGES
-- No cranes or terminals
-- No rail access
-- Dredging required
-- Far from Midwest markets
 
New York/New Jersey
1997 cargo volume: 1,738,000 containers
 
ADVANTAGES
-- Close to other Northeast cities and the Midwest
-- Good rail and road access
-- Cranes and terminals need only minor upgrade
 
DISADVANTAGES
-- Expensive, difficult dredging needed
-- High labor costs
-- Political haggling impedes progress
 
Norfolk
1997 cargo volume: 825,000 containers
 
ADVANTAGES
-- Close to the Midwest
-- Mostly good shore operations
 
DISADVANTAGES
-- Only one railroad
-- Small local market
-- Far from Northeast cities
-- Some dredging required
 
Baltimore
1997 cargo volume: 260,000 containers
 
ADVANTAGES
-- Close to other Northeast cities and the Midwest
-- Mostly good shore operations
-- Good road and rail access
 
DISADVANTAGES
-- Far from open ocean
-- Some dredging required
 
(Sources: Transystems Corporation, Journal of Commerce (volume))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (92%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (92%); CSX (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (92%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (92%); CSX CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HALIFAX (NOVA SCOTIA); QUONSET POINT (RI); NEW YORK CITY; BALTIMORE (MD); NORFOLK (VA); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (92%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); NAVIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN JOHN M PISANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



568 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Power Bargaining;
Walking the Picket Line in Gucci Loafers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
JUDGING from this month's explosion of labor disputes, class struggle has gone upscale. Marxism seems to have given way to Nieman-Marxism. Basketball superstars earning $10 million a year are locked in battle with management. Federal Express pilots pulling in $130,000 or more a year have repeatedly threatened to strike. And cameramen at ABC who, with overtime, frequently make $125,000 a year or more, have been walking the picket lines for close to three weeks.
Over the past few years, there has been a clear trend in labor relations: The average income of workers involved in high-visibility disputes has risen. Whereas labor confrontations were once dominated by burly, blue-collar steelworkers or longshoremen, now the burliest thing about many strikers is the size of their 401(k) plans. 
 Chroniclers of the labor movement see a straightforward explanation for this trend. In the 1980's, after President Reagan dismissed the nation's striking air traffic controllers, corporations turned increasingly to using permanent replacement workers to keep their operations running during strikes. Management's embrace of this potent tool terrified many workers, causing them to fear they would lose their jobs if they went on strike. As a result, the number of strikes and lockouts plummeted.
Low-skilled, low-paid workers who could easily be replaced during walkouts became the most fearful of striking, and highly-skilled workers who are hard to replace were emboldened.
"This is an era when strikes don't work very well," said Richard Hurd, a professor of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University. "Strikes have a chance where unions have bargaining power, and the unions that have a lot of bargaining power nowadays are those with skilled workers who are very difficult to replace."
Remember how baseball owners embarrassed themselves when they toyed with the idea of using minor leaguers to replace millionaire major leaguers during the strike in 1994? Learning from baseball's experience, the N.B.A. has not seriously considered replacing its players.
"There aren't too many unemployed basketball superstars walking around the streets who can replace these guys," said Craig Olson, a professor of industrial relations at the University of Wisconsin.
The basketball showdown and the dispute involving 2,200 off-camera workers at ABC are lockouts, not strikes, and ABC, unlike the N.B.A., has been able to hobble along pretty well by using managers to do the work normally done by union cameramen and editors. As with strikes, lockouts generally occur when unions draw a line in the sand and refuse to bow to managements demands. And, labor experts say, highly skilled workers are more likely than unskilled ones nowadays to stand up to management and risk being locked out.
Some industrial relations experts say a tougher management stance has led to the recent showdowns, with employers demanding changes in established pay patterns or work rules. The N.B.A. is insisting on cutting the percentage of league revenues going to players to 50 percent, from 57 percent. ABC is demanding the right to increase the percentage of freelance off-camera employees to at least 40 percent -- the percentage allowed at NBC -- from 14 percent under the old ABC contract.
"If you look at the history of collective bargaining over the last 15 years, the trend has been for employers to become more aggressive and to attempt to redefine the relationship," said Professor Hurd. "And they have largely succeeded in places where workers did not have the power to resist effectively, as we saw in the Caterpillar strike a few years ago."
All these disputes involving higher-paid workers pose a big challenge to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The labor federation has sought to revive the dormant movement by increasing public support, by unionizing low-paid workers and by turning labor into a social movement that helps those on the lowest rung. Even some labor leaders acknowledge that when highly paid basketball stars and pilots demand more, the public will not rush to labor's cause the way it might to support underpaid farm workers who go on strike.
Still, if beloved stars like Michael Jordan win a few million more dollars a year in the current showdown, that just might help persuade many Americans that unions and collective bargaining can deliver, even if strikes strand passengers or wipe out weeks of a sports season.
 IF these well-paid occupation groups can make some collective bargaining gains, that can only help the labor movement by showing that unions can be effective," said Daniel Cornfield, a Vanderbilt University sociology professor who specializes in labor matters.
"A lot of working people idolize these athletes and they say, 'Yeah, these guys should be well paid, and executives are already paid too much,' " Professor Cornfield said.
"But there's probably a group of middle-class, white-collar workers who enjoy watching sports and would say, 'A plague on both their houses.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans demonstrated at a players' meeting in New York City this month as Juwan Howard of The Washington Wizards strode by. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ABC INC; FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP GUCCI GROUP NV (93%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (59%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC; FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP WASHINGTON WIZARDS (59%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STRIKES; LOCKOUTS; BASKETBALL; DELIVERY SERVICES; TELEVISION; WAGES AND SALARIES STRIKES (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); TRENDS (89%); BASEBALL (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PORT STRIKES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LAYOFFS (58%); OVERTIME (58%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RONALD REAGAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



569 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2739 words

HEADLINE: The Debacle That Buried Washington;
Long After the S.& L. Crisis, Courts Are Handing Taxpayers a New Bill

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT'S alive! The savings and loan debacle, which has cost taxpayers $165 billion, is about to become more expensive.
That may come as a surprise to those who thought the costliest bailout in American history was long completed, as much a ghost of the 80's as Rubik's cubes, break dancing or perestroika. 
 But two years ago, the Supreme Court ruled that the Government had betrayed investors by changing the rules of the bailout at the height of the savings and loan crisis. And now, a little-known Federal court here is getting ready to begin assessing the costs -- a sum that could add up to anywhere from $4 billion to $50 billion, depending on which side is guessing.
In the first big test case, the Chief Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims is expected to decide by year-end the size of the award to a California savings and loan that nearly collapsed after Federal accounting rules were changed in 1989. The judge, Loren A. Smith, has already indicated that he will order a sizable judgment for the savings and loan, Glendale Federal Bank, which is seeking $1.9 billion.
That could set a standard for a parade of cases -- the first of more than 120 brought by existing and moribund savings associations and by shareholders -- that are scheduled for trial over the next few months. The exact size of the awards is likely to be determined by appeals courts. But this much is certain: Whatever the tab, taxpayers will pay it, thanks to a two-paragraph provision that lawmakers buried in last month's appropriations legislation at the behest of savings and loan lobbyists, who feared either that the Government would not pay or that the industry might end up being saddled with the costs.
Administration officials, who supported the move, calculate that every $1 billion awarded to the industry will cost each American household $10. And as awards against the Government mount, decade-old questions about Washington's willingness and ability to tackle the savings industry's problems are certain to be revived.
Illustrating their importance and complexity, the savings and loan cases have engaged legions of lawyers -- the Justice Department is devoting more resources to them than to any other matter, including the Microsoft antitrust case. Some unusual battle lines have been drawn: Two Federal agencies are on opposing sides, and two Nobel Prize-winning economists have been pitted against each other on the meaning of their own collaborative work. In the end, huge payouts may go to some of the nation's wealthiest and most aggressive financiers.
In the 1980's, after loosened lending rules and a real estate collapse left many savings associations buried in bad loans, regulators decided that the cheapest way to heal the lenders was to encourage them to merge with healthier institutions or find new investors. So regulators struck deals with, among others, Ronald O. Perelman, who had bought Revlon with junk bonds; the Bass family of Texas; Jay A. Pritzker, whose family controls Hyatt hotels, among other properties; Lewis Ranieri, the investment banker credited with inventing mortgage-backed securities, and William E. Simon, the former Treasury Secretary.
Later, many of the deals were criticized in Congress as being overly generous. But regulators said that they had no choice, because Congress had refused to provide money to back the insured deposits of the rapidly growing list of hemorrhaging institutions. Now these investors and others who still own shares in the savings and loans stand to gain from the damage claims. That -- and the possibility that current and former savings executives may reap big gains -- would be a remarkable end to a financial calamity that once stigmatized the industry as a haven for incompetent managers and financial scoundrels.
"In 1989, there was no way these people would be paid," said Robert E. Litan of the Brookings Institution. "The political environment was terrible for them. Now they're no longer demonized. This was like the appendix of a lot of the deals of the 1980's. Now the appendix has burst and someone's got to fix it."
THE precedent that made such awards possible is known as the Winstar case, named after the consolidation of suits brought by the Winstar Corporation, the Statesman Group and Glendale Federal. In July 1996, a splintered Supreme Court ruled that the 1989 legislation that rescued the savings and loan industry also broke the contracts that the institutions' salvagers had made with Washington.
Those contracts, aimed at attracting investors, had given the savings and loans permission to use an unusual accounting rule that had the effect of letting many institutions satisfy their capital requirements by booking huge liabilities as assets.
The rule allowed the buyers of weakened institutions to take the difference between their purchase price and the market value of the institution and count that as an asset, calling it "supervisory goodwill." Since the price often consisted of the assumption of the insolvent institution's liabilities, the move converted liabilities into capital that could satisfy regulatory requirements.
The ability to use such accounting led new investors and other savings associations to infuse new capital into the weaker savings and loans. The rule, however, was heavily criticized by some experts as a gimmick destined to lead to greater bailout costs some day. A Federal appeals judge ultimately referred to supervisory goodwill as "a euphemism for spinning straw into gold."
As the savings and loan crisis reached a fever pitch in 1989, the accounting arrangement was phased out by tough legislation endorsed by President George Bush and approved by lawmakers.
Overnight, the law's provision ending supervisory goodwill turned what had appeared to be healthy balance sheets into ones that could not meet minimum capital requirements. Many institutions collapsed. Others tottered on the edge of failure or were bought by healthier companies, resulting in further consolidation. And the industry soon unleashed its barrage of lawsuits, essentially accusing Washington of having perpetrated an enormous bait-and-switch.
In its 1996 ruling, a controlling plurality of the Supreme Court essentially agreed. Justice David H. Souter dismissed the Clinton Administration's arguments that the contracts did not provide insurance against a legislative change.
"It would, indeed, have been madness," Justice Souter wrote, for the industry to have entered into the contracts without some guarantee that they were enforceable, "for the very existence of their institutions would then have been in jeopardy from the moment their agreements were signed."
The ruling breathed new life into the savings and loan lawsuits, which were sent back to the claims court to set damages and resolve other issues. Since the decision, the Justice Department has quietly offered settlements of hundreds of millions of dollars to some institutions. But the companies are waiting to see whether Judge Smith and his colleagues will be more generous.
The industry's lawyers, along with Judge Smith, have criticized the Justice Department as moving slowly in settling the claims. They have accused Government lawyers of dragging their feet and re-arguing issues that they say were resolved years ago.
"In many respects the Justice Department's positions have been frivolous and served only to delay progress in these cases and add enormously to the expense," said Charles J. Cooper, a former senior Justice official whose law firm represents more than a dozen savings associations and former owners of savings and loans. "It's deepened the uncompensated damages that American citizens are suffering as a direct breach of their contracts."
In response, the Justice Department has challenged the damage claims as pie-in-the-sky figures that have no basis in contract law. Its sharpest attacks are aimed at perhaps the suits' most costly assertions -- that companies like Glendale Federal are entitled to recover all the profits they would have made if the rules had not changed.
"This is real money," said Frank W. Hunger, the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Department's civil division. "And it's not money that is being sought for anything productive, like education, housing or the Peace Corps. We're simply not going to pay out billions of taxpayer dollars when there are bona fide legal issues involved."
The Justice Department is devoting an extraordinary amount of resources to the cases. Some 40 lawyers and a support staff of dozens more have been working full time with an annual budget of $60 million, nearly half the civil division's total.
The plaintiffs, too, have been spending freely. For instance, Glendale Federal, a unit of Golden State Bancorp, has used two law firms and spent more than $43 million on its case since 1996, according to company records on file at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Because more than 40 of the institutions suing the Government are insolvent, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has also entered the fray, assigning about three dozen of its lawyers to intervene in the cases. Like a dog chasing its tail, the Government now has one agency, the Justice Department, as a defendant, and another -- the F.D.I.C. -- aligned with the plaintiffs in many cases.
The Justice Department has asserted that the F.D.I.C., which also administers a fund from which some of the judgments may be paid, cannot in effect make claims on itself. "It is a fundamental axiom that the United States cannot sue itself," the Justice Department said in a brief.
The F.D.I.C. has replied that it must pursue the cases because of its legal obligations as a receiver, representing the institutions that collapsed. The agency's lawyers are concerned that if they fail to intervene, the agency could be liable to shareholders and creditors. But as a practical matter, much of what it hopes to recover will result in the simple shift of money from one Government account to another.
THE interagency warfare is just one of the strange battles these cases have spawned. In another notable conflict, two Nobel Prize-winning collaborators have disagreed on whether their shared work applies to the litigation.
Merton H. Miller of the University of Chicago, who won the Nobel in 1990, testified for the Government that the Modigliani-Miller Theorem, or M & M Propositions, which are the foundation of modern corporate finance, demonstrated that the industry's claims were wildly overstated. He said that under the theory, the reduction of supervisory goodwill did not reduce the value of a savings association and that the profitability of the company did not depend on its level of goodwill.
"When you phase out goodwill, you're are not taking away any earning asset," Professor Miller testified as a $1,000-an-hour Justice Department expert. "You are not taking away anything but accounting smoke and mirrors."
In a lawsuit filed by Glendale's sister institution, California Federal Bank, the industry responded with its own $1,000-an-hour expert: Franco Modigliani of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the other "M" in the propositions, who won the Nobel in 1985.
"I have decided to testify in this case because my name is associated with the M & M Propositions, and, in my view, they are being misused by the Government in a way that I regard as damaging to the credibility of the theorem," Professor Modigliani wrote in his expert report. "The truth is that the M & M Propositions are completely irrelevant to the present issue and have been dragged in as a red herring."
At ground zero in the cases is Loren Allan Smith, 53, the judge who eight years ago wrote the first opinion in the Winstar case that gave the industry hope that it could ultimately recover what it had lost in the 1989 legislation. Not only will he decide the award for Glendale; he has also been issuing significant rulings on the common issues in the 120-plus cases and has begun to assign some of the dozen cases to be tried, beginning next month. Then the next batch of 30 lawsuits will be tried.
Judge Smith, an amateur magician and former host of the radio talk show "What's Best for America?," entered Washington political circles as a young lawyer working on President Richard Nixon's legal team during Watergate. Later, he was chief counsel to Ronald Reagan's 1976 and 1980 Presidential campaigns. In 1985, Mr. Reagan appointed him to the Court of Federal Claims, a specialized branch of the judiciary that hears disputes between the Government and its contractors as well as claims against the United States.
The judge has earned a reputation as a leading proponent of the legal proposition that property owners should be compensated for the costs they incur under Federal regulations. He has rattled the Justice Department, lambasting its legal maneuverings and suggesting that he is leaning toward a substantial award to Glendale.
In his seventh-floor office at the Claims Court, across Lafayette Park from the White House, the judge said in a recent interview that his job was to dispense justice, not to protect the public Treasury.
"I see as much a problem to giving away $1 that isn't deserved as to give away $100 billion that was deserved," he said. "If it's the law, so be it. You've got to follow the law whatever the consequences. It's not the duty of the judiciary to guard the fisc. A judge's duty is to apply the law fairly."
But Judge Smith will not have the last word. Whichever side loses is certain to appeal. And another judge about to hear a savings and loan case has already limited the possible damage claims of a major plaintiff.
Two weeks ago, in a significant Claims Court victory for the Government, Judge Robert H. Hodges Jr. ruled that when California Federal's case goes to trial on Dec. 12, it cannot pursue the claim that it is entitled to collect damages equal to the profits it would have earned had it been able to continue counting supervisory goodwill. Judge Hodges called such a theory "particularly speculative."
For taxpayers, the crucial turn in the cases came late last month in Congress. With no debate and no news coverage, lawmakers decided that taxpayers, not the industry, would have to finance the judgments from all the cases. And rather than confront large and politically unpopular damage awards as they are handed down, legislators also decided to simply keep the spigot to the Treasury open indefinitely.
Buried in the appropriations legislation that covers all Federal spending for the new fiscal year, lawmakers inserted two paragraphs giving the Administration the authority to spend "such sums as may be necessary." As part of a tangled compromise, the provision was supported by the White House and by savings lobbyists, who had feared that either the industry might be levied higher deposit insurance premiums to cover the cases or that the plaintiffs would not be able to collect on judgments because Congress had not set aside money for such awards.
The Administration also prevailed on Congress to leave uncapped all spending to defend the lawsuits. Some industry lobbyists had sought to limit spending or require more oversight by Congress, hoping to prod the Administration into quickly resolving more of the suits.
WITH the cases now headed for trial, the beginning of the end is finally at hand for the savings and loan debacle. But other industries are looking for ways to make use of the precedent that the Government may be liable for costs incurred when it changes its rules.
Lawyers representing electric utilities, telecommunications companies and developers of low-income housing have begun filing lawsuits, and health care lawyers say they may be next. Initial successes indicate that taxpayers may end up facing yet more bills.
Three weeks ago, a Federal claims judge, citing the Winstar precedent, ruled that the Department of Energy violated a commitment to remove used radioactive fuel from a nuclear power plant owned by the Yankee Atomic Electric Company. In all, utilities have pending claims of an estimated $50 billion.
"There are a lot of lawyers who are now trying to shake the money tree," said Joshua I. Schwartz, a professor of law and co-director of the government procurement program at the George Washington University Law School.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Court of Claims Judge Loren A. Smith is deciding the first big test case over changed rules of the savings and loan bailout. He has made it clear that he leans toward the industry's contention, which adorned a lobbying campaign button. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Photos:
The Financiers
 
Prominent investors snapped up savings and loan associations at bargain prices during the Government bailout of the industry. Now, they are among those seeking $30 billion to $50 billion in civil lawsuits contending that Washington unfairly altered the terms of the deals by putting an end to a favorable accounting practice.
 
 
Robert M. Bass
American Savings
The Texas financier led a group of investors that in 1988 bought American, a big California lender, after a $1.7 billion Federal bailout. They rebuilt the bank, then sold it to Washington Mutual in 1996 for $1.2 billion in stock, becoming major shareholders.
 
 
Jay A. Pritzker
Lyons Savings
At the end of 1988, the Pritzker family of Chicago joined with the Dworman family of New York to take over Lyons, an insolvent $1 billion institution in Illinois. They invested $42.5 million and received $385 million in assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Lyons is now known as Superior Bank.
 
William E. Simon and Preston Martin
Honolulu Federal Savings, Western Federal Savings, Southern California Savings
Mr. Simon, a former Treasury Secretary, and Mr. Martin, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, led a group of investors who bought these savings and loans from 1986 to 1988. They sold Honfed for a large profit in 1991; Western Fed failed in 1993. The holding company for Southern California Savings, renamed People's Bank, went public in May.
 
Lewis Ranieri
United Savings Association
For $200 million, Mr. Ranieri -- a New York investor who helped invent the mortgage-backed securities business -- took over the insolvent Houston institution, which had $4.4 billion in assets, at the end of 1988. Bank United, as it now is called, went public in 1996 and is the biggest savings and loan in Texas.
 
Ronald O. Perelman
California Federal Savings, Glendale Federal Savings
Mr. Perelman, who controls Revlon and many other businesses, was a big investor in Texas savings and loans during the bailout years. In the mid-90's, he began focusing his bank holdings in California. His Golden State Bancorp owns California Federal and Glendale Federal, the banks at the forefront of the suits over the bailout terms.
 
The Bounty Hunter
Several savings and loan executives have cut deals that could have big payoffs if suits against the Government succeed.
Probably the most prominent is Stephen J. Trafton, former chairman and chief executive of Glendale Federal Bank and now vice president in charge of litigation management for its parent, Golden State Bancorp.
A star witness in Golden State's cases, he will collect a percentage of any recovery by Glendale Federal or its sister bank, California Federal. His share could amount to millions.
 
The Convict
Some of the industry's darker figures have also filed lawsuits, including David L. Paul, the former chairman of Florida's Centrust Savings, whose gold-plated toilet pipes and $29 million art collection were ultimately financed by taxpayers in a $1.7 billion bailout.
Government lawyers have sought to block Mr. Paul's claim, valued by his lawyers at $26 million to $500 million. Mr. Paul filed it from a Federal prison cell in Georgia, where he is serving an 11-year sentence for bank and securities fraud.
 
The Nobel Laureates
Merton H. Miller and Franco Modigliani, both winners of the Nobel Prize in Economics, are considered the fathers of modern corporate finance. Their insight was that a company's value is independent of its financial structure -- that is, the balance of stock and bonds it sells to raise money.
Yet in the savings and loan litigation, Mr. Miller is a $1,000-an-hour expert for the Government, while Mr. Modigliani is being paid at the same rate by the savings and loan industry.
Mr. Miller's position: the Government's changes to savings and loan financial assumptions did not take away "anything but accounting smoke and mirrors."
Mr. Modigliani's response: The elements of his and Mr. Miller's theory "are completely irrelevant" to the savings-and-loan litigation "and have been dragged in as a red herring."
 
How You Can Participate
Three savings and loan companies spun off the value of their lawsuits against the Government into securities that trade on Nasdaq.
With large awards or settlements, analysts say, investors could expect big gains in the so-called litigation participation certificates issued by Golden State Bancorp, California Federal Bank and Coast Federal Bank.
(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); HISTORY (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); APPEALS (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); LAW PRACTICE (67%); ACCOUNTING (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); 

PERSON: SMITH, LOREN A (CHIEF JUDGE); LABATON, STEPHEN LEW RANIERI (70%); RONALD PERELMAN (70%); ROBERT BASS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



570 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Just a Bump In Capitalism's Long Road

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif.

 BODY:
THIS does not seem to be free enterprise's finest hour.
Asian economies that were once vibrant have collapsed, sending millions of people who had pulled themselves up toward the middle class back into a struggle for survival. Russia's movement toward democratic capitalism is in shambles. Even the world's biggest and strongest economies are at risk from the global crisis. 
 So it seemed fair recently to ask Milton Friedman, the iconic advocate of free markets, if the free-enterprise system had not proved inadequate in an era of linked financial systems and contagion by microchip.
His reply: The problems in most countries are a result of bad policy at home and bad advice from the International Monetary Fund, not any failure of the markets.
Indeed, Mr. Friedman, whose libertarianism left him on the fringes of the mainstream starting in the New Deal and for decades afterward, was not conceding anything in the growing debate over whether the turmoil has exposed the limits of markets as a force for prosperity, democracy and stability. Now 86, and as willing as ever to argue his cause, he was typically provocative in an interview about the interplay between ideology and the real world.
The fallout from the global crisis, he said, would inevitably create some setbacks in what he sees as a slow but inexorable movement toward less government involvement in the economy and greater individual freedom. Economists are again debating the merits of controls on capital, for example, and some countries, including the United States, are hinting at higher trade barriers to protect domestic industries from the ravages of a tumultuous global economy.
"There's always a tendency when things go wrong to blame the private market," said Mr. Friedman, who won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1976.
"Given that you've had these difficulties, there's no doubt there will be backsliding," he said in his office at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.
The talk of global crisis, however, is largely overblown, he said, noting that the United States and Western Europe remain in sound economic health.
But in a broader sense, Mr. Friedman said, much of the world is at a historical turning point, when a gradual acceptance of free-market principles on a philosophical level is beginning to translate into a fundamental movement toward market-oriented policies, institutions and politics. The implications for policy could be profound, he said, ranging from lower taxes to greater competition for public schools.
"It's my impression that you have long cycles of public opinion on the one hand and public behavior on the other," Mr. Friedman said. He cited the long delay between Adam Smith's "The Wealth of Nations," published in 1776, and Britain's repeal of the protectionist Corn Laws in 1846. And, he said, although the Fabian Society was formed in the 1880's, "it was not until just before World War I that Britain started down the road to the welfare state.
"The case for free markets and market economies, right after World War II, was held by only a very small minority who were looked upon as reactionaries of the worst kind," Mr. Friedman said. "In the period since then, the case for free markets has been won rhetorically. Everybody now believes in competition, believes in freedom, believes that governments should have a relatively minor role and that markets should be relatively free. That's the rhetoric, and it's reached a peak since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
"On the other hand, if you look at the practice, in the United States and also most other Western countries, government is more powerful, more extensive, more intrusive now than it was 50 years ago. In that sense we have moved backward and been following the prior socialist trend of opinion.
"I think we are sort of at the peak of the collectivist way," he continued, "Over the next 20, 30 or 40 years, the rhetoric -- combined with the remarkable effects the Internet is going to have on our lives -- will produce a decline in the role of government and a widening of human freedom."
Why the Internet?
"Because it makes it harder to collect taxes," Mr. Friedman said, referring to the difficulty of defining where a transaction takes place when it occurs in cyberspace. "Governments can get funds fundamentally only from resources that find it difficult to move elsewhere. The greater the freedom of movement of capital and people, the harder it is for governments. That's the kind of external force that is adding to what's coming from the intellectual tide of opinion."
As Mr. Friedman suggests, history can be slow to render its judgment. The crisis set off last year in Asia may indeed be just a setback, and not a new turning of the tide; it will take years to know for sure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Milton Friedman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; FRIEDMAN, MILTON ADAM SMITH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



571 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Tongue-Lashings And Backlashes

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS city has always kept an unwritten list of foreign leaders dictators, unfriendly authoritarians and consistently annoying allies -- who it thinks can make an enormous contribution to peace, security or America's agenda by taking early retirement, at a minimum. In the 1950's, the leftist leaders of Iran and Guatamala made the Top 10, in the '60's it was populated by Diem and Sukarno and other Southeast Asians. President Nixon and his advisers infamously agreed at a secret meeting in the '70's that the best way to deal with the Government of Salvador Allende Gossens in Chile was to "make the economy scream."
Diplomatic etiquette, though, has usually discouraged shouting America's enemies list from the White House rooftop. After all, foreign policy isn't about personalities, right? But last week, driven by frustration, or anxiety, or perhaps the lure of sounding tough for cameras, the Clinton Administration piped up, twice. In very different situations, in opposite corners of the world, the United States spoke loudly because it can't find a stick. 
 On Sunday, hours after he called off an attack on Iraq, Mr. Clinton finally volunteered the obvious, that the focus of American policy toward Iraq is the removal of President Saddam Hussein -- what Mr. Clinton called supporting the "forces of change in Iraq." No matter that covert efforts to do just that have failed miserably.
The bigger surprise came on Monday, when polite-to-a-fault Al Gore used his visit to Malaysia for an Asian economic summit meeting to throw American support behind protesters calling for "reformasi," the code word on the streets of Kuala Lumpur for dumping Mr. Mahathir. He has long been a burr in Washington's side, denouncing America, its currency traders and its Jews. Recently he imprisoned his Western-thinking Finance Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, who has suddenly become Asia's most visible jailed dissident. But Mr. Mahathir is no Saddam Hussein, not by a long shot.
The Vice President's aides insist that his speech was a call for reform, not a demand that Mr. Mahathir step down. But it wasn't interpreted that way. The New Zealanders called it "megaphone diplomacy." The Malaysian Government called it "disgusting" and an "interference in internal affairs." Predictably, executives of several American companies that have flocked to Kuala Lumpur told the Malaysians that the Vice President was rude, while assuring Washington that he had uttered words that needed to be said.
Whatever the wisdom of the Mr. Gore's words, they raised the question of what it takes these days for the world's most powerful nation to begin publicly suggesting that it's time for a nettlesome leader to go. Because there is no official list, there are no real criteria for getting on it.
Some leaders mysteriously escape mention, like Kim Jong Il of North Korea. President Clinton is spending the weekend on the Korean Peninsula, staring across the demilitarized zone at a dangerous state that everyone suspects is attempting to break out of its 1994 agreement to freeze its nuclear weapons projects, in return for billions in Western energy aid. Yet Washington has never called on the starving North Koreans to revolt against Mr. Kim's repressive regime. His Government, taking a page out of the Saddam Hussein playbook, suggested last week that if the United States really wants to look at a mountain tunnel that the Pentagon believes is a nuclear installation in the making, it should write a check for another $300 million. No one even called for Mr. Kim's removal when, a few months ago, he lobbed a three-stage missile over Japan just to show he knew how.
"The rules for calling for the end of a regime are pretty murky," said Richard Feinberg, a professor at the University of California at San Diego who served in the Clinton Administration's first term. "When they really want to push someone out, it is because that country is part of a larger strategic concern at the time. But the country itself usually doesn't have great strategic weight" -- it's another matter to call for a change of leadership in Beijing or Moscow -- "and it helps if there is some kind of domestic opposition that we can point to."
 MR. CLINTON'S call for Mr. Hussein's ouster last weekend created barely a ripple because, after all, he is a proven murderer and an avid stockpiler of anthrax and plutonium (even if Brent Scowcroft, President Bush's national security adviser, insisted last week that these days he is simply "an irritant, an annoyance, a pest and a problem, but not a threat to the region at the moment").
Mr. Mahathir, however, is far more complex case. He's a prime example of how opposing Washington's political and economic agenda for an interconnected world can move a leader from the list of authoritarians whom Washington tolerates to the list of authoritarians who have outlived their usefulness.
Like other Asian strongmen -- Ferdinand E. Marcos of the Philippines and Suharto of Indonesia come to mind -- he was useful when the fear was that Malaysia would become a Communist domino. But he also seemed eminently tolerable long after the cold war was over. He has never been accused of enormous corruption. He turned his country into a model of competitiveness, and Malaysia became the exemplar of the "big emerging markets" that Mr. Clinton's Commerce Department touted until things went sour last year.
Sure, he was always prickly. But he is no terrorist or killer -- American companies have flocked to his country, and say they want to stay -- and his iron control over political discourse is no stronger than in neighboring Singapore. Just this summer, Mr. Rubin paid him an ostensibly friendly, if strained, visit and made no reference to human rights.
That all changed when Mr. Ibrahim was arrested and beaten in jail. He has long been an advocate of the Western-style solutions to economic turmoil -- more openness, more freedom -- and the protest movement against Mr. Mahathir only surfaced once he was in jail. Mr. Gore leapt on that opportunity -- particularly striking because, in the case of Indonesia earlier this year, it took the Administration months to come to the conclusion that President Suharto had to go. He went.
The fear now is that the public American embrace of the nascent opposition in Malaysia could bolster Mr. Mahathir's standing. After all, he is a nationalist, and now he has evidence that the Americans want to see him toppled. It's not a far stretch for him to argue that Bill Clinton -- who snubbed his country by skipping the summit at the last minute -- is using currency traders the way President Lyndon B. Johnson used Marines.
"Gore gave Mahathir the excuse to portray himself as a man fighting for independence from the Americans," a senior Clinton Administration official said, arguing that the Vice President went too far. "We've just taken a bad situation and made it worse."
 BUT for a man who is already running for President, standing up to an Asian authoritarian can't be an entirely unwise move. The risk is one of unintended consequences. It is easy to explain to the world why you are simply going after brutal tyrants like Saddam Hussein or drug runners and money launderers. But siding with "reformers" is trickier business. Mr. Clinton did exactly that in Japan in 1993, abandoning decades of covert support for Japan's conservative ruling party. By the time the reformers were finished with the Japanese economy, Washington was begging for the old-timers to come back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore may have strengthened Malaysia's leader by criticizing his regime. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; MALAYSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); CHILE (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (57%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (57%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); MAHATHIR MOHAMAD (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



572 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The World: Second Acts, and Beyond;
Check Out the 'Me, Reborn' Generation

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
LOOKING for a role model for your career? How about Jesse Ventura, the menacing wrestler turned blustery radio host turned straight-talking Minnesota Governor-elect?
The election of Mr. Ventura this month may have seemed simply a golden moment in political eccentricity. But if you wade through the bulging bookshelf of tomes on the changing nature of careers in America, Mr. Ventura looks like something else as well -- a poster boy for the new post-downsizing, information-age ethos of creative reinvention that various deep thinkers trumpet as the new norm in the American workplace. 
 In fact, there are striking changes in the economy, psychology and demography of the country that make Mr. Ventura's unlikely path -- and the lure of inspired amateurism -- particularly illustrative. But how new the ethos of reinvention is, whether it is a trend to be welcomed or feared and how committed Americans are to it are all questions worth pondering.
As if taken from books with titles like, "Career Intelligence: the 12 New Rules for Work and Life Success," Mr. Ventura's career seems crafted from the jargon of the career counseling class: He sees his career as a lattice, not a ladder. He communicates in persuasive yet unconventional ways. He thinks about roles, not jobs, cultivates a broad network and keeps on learning. At 47, he probably has several zigs and zags left.
"He found a way to take his own authentic self and use it to reposition himself as a politician," said Barbara Moses, head of B.B.M. Human Resource Consultants of Toronto and the author of "Career Intelligence" (Berrett-Koehler, 1998). "I think of careers in terms of Legos. You might have a space station, but a kid takes the space vehicle and uses it at the zoo and then it becomes an ambulance that takes people to the hospital. The pieces are reconfigured, but their essential properties have not mutated. More and more, we do the same thing in our careers."
F. Scott Fitzgerald once mused that, "There are no second acts in American lives." It may be one of the least persuasive aphorisms ever to get wide currency.
Americans have always had second acts. They have been immigrants beginning anew. They have left behind families and scrawled "Gone to Texas" on the walls of their houses. Second and third marriages are routine. And even in the most conventional lives, retirees leave familiar worlds behind for the Florida sun.
 WHAT is new is that so many Americans are now having third and fourth acts, they are having them later in life and several trends may be making them unavoidable.
First is the aging of the population, the dominant demographic trend as 76 million baby boomers continue to age into vital, restless seniors. In 1900, life expectancy in the United States was 49. Today it is 76. People who reach age 55 can expect to live into their 80's, meaning most will either be working longer or anticipating a retirement more dynamic and challenging than models from the recent past.
Second is the wave of layoffs and restructurings of the early 1990's. A study by James Medoff, a Harvard economist, found that workers between the ages of 35 and 54 were 55 percent more likely to be jobless during the 1990's because of a layoff or job loss than in the 1970's. The cuts at the nation's biggest companies obliterated for many the expectation of lifelong employment with a single employer, and made restructuring and career insecurity a permanent part of the landscape.
At the same time, the restructurings that kicked some middle managers into the cold helped stoke a boom in the stock market that has left unprecedented numbers of workers and managers able to cash out and pick up new jobs or lives.
Social expectations have changed too. Workers today seem to be groping for more personal fulfillment than earlier generations did. The increasing pace of technological change, the vogue for less rigid corporate structures and perhaps even millennial ferment are encouraging the shift toward multiple acts. And in a mass-media environment, it can help to be a former wrestler campaigning against two dull suits.
"We're jaded," said Ms. Moses. "How do you get someone's attention when they're tired and distracted? If you're new and fresh, they don't go yawn yawn, blah blah and turn the page."
In some ways, all those factors are creating the golden age of personal reinvention. Entertainers like Sonny Bono and athletes like Jim Bunning and Steve Largent go to Congress or, like Bill Bradley, go to Congress and then go on to something else. John Glenn goes from astronaut to Senator to astronaut (a greenhorn the second time around because of advances in space-flight technology). Matt Drudge, the Internet gossip hound, irks journalists by serving up news as well as innuendo in cyberspace. The great entrepreneurial successes are Steve Jobs in his garage or Bill Gates dropping out of Harvard to start Microsoft.
 EVEN when it comes to health, a lot of people, some motivated by rising costs, seem to prefer newcomers to medicine over old-line professionals. A recent study in the Journal of the American Medical Association reported on the astounding growth of alternative medicine in the United States, with 83 million people using some form of alternative medicine, up 47 percent over 1990.
A search of recent news articles turns up a chorus of reinvention -- the artist turned psychotherapist, the accountant turned winemaker, the 76-year-old, first-time film director. To some, the message is that the traditional career path is kaput.
"The old rules have fallen apart," said Marti Smye, author of "Is It Too Late to Run Away and Join the Circus? A Guide for Your Second Life" (Macmillan, 1998). "You talk to senior team members at top companies and they're all thinking the same thing: What am I going to do with my next life?"
Of course, new paradigms usually have to coexist with old ones. Mr. Ventura probably won only because his two rivals split the rest of the vote. The fact is that in politics, as in many other fields, the game is still rigged in favor of the traditional careerists and insiders over the amateurs and outsiders. And for every risk taker nimbly skipping from career rock to career rock, there are nervous middle managers hanging on.
Mr. Ventura perhaps represents the glass-half-full aspect of the new careerism. In a new book, "Boomernomics" (Ballantine, 1998), William Sterling and Stephen Wells posit a future of 10 more economic boom years and then a debacle as boomers try to sell investments at the same time and Social Security and Medicare stagger under the weight of too many aging boomers.
"People are going to have to reinvent themselves at later stages in life than were ever imaginable in the past," said Mr. Sterling, an investment strategist with Credit Suisse Asset Management. "We're going to be asking more and more people in their 50's and even their 60's to make employer and even career changes at a period in the past when they were thinking about which retirement community to choose. You get into the old-dogs-and-new-tricks issue."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOURCE CONSULTANTS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA; UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); AGING TRENDS (73%); WRITERS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); SPACE EXPLORATION (62%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); 

PERSON: VENTURA, JESSE; APPLEBOME, PETER JESSE VENTURA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



573 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: NOVEMBER 16-20;
With Interest Rates Pared, Stocks Surge

 BODY:
Markets are perverse. After chilling out last summer, stocks have suddenly turned hot again, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 18 percent since Oct. 8 for its best six weeks since 1982. The Dow, which ended the week at 9,159.55, up 239.96, or 2.7 percent, for the week, has recovered 90 percent of the 1,799 points it lost in July and August.
What's more, leading the recovery has been the financial services sector that was so badly mauled in last summer's bear market. American Express has risen 44 percent and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 70 percent since Oct. 8. Behind their advance is the action of the Federal Reserve, which cut interest rates on Tuesday -- its third cut this fall. 
 The rate cut, which has been emulated by other central banks around the world, has also helped consumer goods companies and big exporters. General Motors shares have climbed 44 percent since Oct. 8.
There was even a mini-boom in oil stocks at the end of the week, on hope that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries might endorse production cuts at its meeting next week in Vienna; such a move would help drive crude prices higher. Exxon rose 2 1/8, to 72. Internet-related companies and technology issues were also strong. Intel gained 8 percent last week on expectations of strong personal-computer sales.
 JAN M. ROSEN

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Exide
NYSE: EX
The world's largest auto-motive battery maker named Robert A. Lutz, the former Chrysler vice chairman, as chief exec-utive. He succeeds Arthur Hawkins, who left amid allegations of improper business practices.
Friday's Close: $18.0000
Week'S Change: +24.14%
EST. '99 P/E: 38.14
 
Daimler Chrysler
NYSE: DCX
Investors rushed to buy shares of the newly merged auto makers, which will have increased weightings in some indexes, though it is not in the S.& P. 500. The com-pany said it would expand its plant in Alabama.
Friday's Close: $91.625
Week'S Change: +15.25%
EST. '98 P/E: N.A.
 
Hewlett-Packard
NYSE: HWP
Although the big maker of computers and printers topped analysts' deflated earnings estimates, it warned that first-quarter earnings would be lower and sales growth would slow. It cited economic weakness overseas.
Friday's Close: $57.8125
Week'S Change: -11.40%
EST. '99 P/E: 17.38
 
Amazon.com
NNM: AMZN
The leading on-line book-seller announced an expanded on-line video and holiday gift store and led a surge in generally hot Internet stocks. It also announced a three-for-one split of its high-flying shares.
Friday's Close: $180.625
Week'S Change: +41.39%
EST. '98 P/E: N.A.
 
Chase Manhattan
NYSE: CMB
The nation's second-largest banking company was among last week's strong financial service stocks, which benefited from the Fed's rate cut on Tuesday. Chase said it would buy back up to $3 billion of its stock.
Friday's Close: $61.9375
Week'S Change: +8.31%
EST. '98 P/E: 14.45
 
IXC Communications
NNM: IIXC
The provider of local telephone service, which is based in Austin, Tex., warned during a conference call with analysts that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall below expectations.
Friday's Close: $28.125
Week'S Change: -28.34%
EST. '98 P/E: N.A.
 
Danka Business
NNM: DANKY (A.D.R.'s)
British-based Danka, a leading global supplier of copiers and fax ma-chines, said it might seek bankruptcy protection in both Britain and the United States. It cited a legal dispute with Eastman Kodak.
Friday's Close: $2.09375
Week'S Change: -50.00%
EST. '99 P/E: N.A.
 
Tektronix
NYSE: TEK
The world's largest maker of electronic-measurement devices was rated a buy in new coverage by Robert Stern, a Merrill Lynch analyst, who said it was gaining market share for color printers.
Friday's Close: $24.875
Week'S Change: +20.61%
EST. '99 P/E: 25.86

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (69%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (75%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); INTEL CORP (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (75%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); 

PERSON: JAN M ROSEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



574 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Trying to Strike a Competitive Balance as the Disparity in Payrolls Grows

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
When general managers gather each November a couple of weeks after the World Series, they spend several days in meetings discussing issues that affect their game and their teams. The post-season is often on their agenda of topics.
"There are eight clubs that are talking about post-season rosters," Doug Melvin of the Texas Rangers said, "and the other clubs are saying, 'What should I have to worry about that for?' " 
 Melvin exaggerated, but only slightly. More than eight teams had a shot at the playoffs this year, but the number did not include teams that had payrolls below $48 million. As the disparity in payrolls grows, that threshold number grows, too. Such a premium is placed on the price of winning that relative paupers need not apply for post-season spots.
This year the Houston Astros were the playoff team with the lowest payroll, $48.3 million. Last year the Astros made it with a payroll of $34.2 million, the San Francisco Giants with $44.1 million, the Seattle Mariners with $45.6 million. In 1996 San Diego got there with a $33.4 million payroll, Los Angeles with $37.3 million, St. Louis with $37.6 million and Texas with $41.3 million.
And as the price of winning escalates, the reality of losing sends payrolls plummeting.
"Not only are payrolls going up, but they're also going down," said Sandy Alderson, a longtime Oakland Athletics executive, who recently became Major League Baseball's vice president for baseball operations. "We lose sight of the fact that there are some clubs that are giving up.
"There are those at $20 million who say to themselves going to $30 million doesn't appreciably change their chances, and there are those at $30 million who say we're no better off at 30 than at 20, so they go down. What you end up with is the extruding of the list so that you have some at this end, a lot at this end and no one in the middle."
This year's payrolls ranged from Baltimore's $71.9 million to Montreal's $8.3 million. The Orioles, with the only losing record among the 13 teams that had payrolls of more than $48 million, clearly underachieved, but the Expos didn't have a chance.
"Payroll disparity results from revenue disparity and leads to competitive disparity," Alderson said.
Owners and club officials see disparity as the No. 1 problem facing baseball today.
"One can't help but be concerned," Commissioner Bud Selig said Friday. "I've heard the competitive balance thing for a lot of years, and for a long time it didn't play, but as stakes get higher and disparity grows, everyone ought to have concerns."
In the labor agreement that emerged from the 1994-95 players strike, the owners and the players adopted a revenue sharing plan under which the high-revenue teams would pay money into a pool from which the low-revenue teams would receive money. The aim of the plan was to reduce revenue differences.
This year the Yankees are expected to pay the most, a little more than $11 million, while the Expos will receive the most, about $12.5 million. But those payments won't make much of a dent on what one baseball official said was a $135 million difference between the teams' revenues.
Jim Beattie, the Expos' general manager, acknowledged that his team probably receives more money than anyone else. Without it, he added, "We might have ended up losing money."
But the fact that the Expos did make some money might rankle the clubs that make deposits into the revenue-sharing pool.
"They don't like giving us money," Beattie said, "and then we cut back and maybe make some money. We're not operating for the good of the game right now. We don't want to operate that way. We've been in a survival mode. We can't move from that position until we get some assurance that we're not going to shoot ourselves in the foot all the time."
Donald Fehr, head of the players union, said it would be premature to judge the revenue sharing plan before it reaches full-scale implementation for the 2000 season. The plan was 80 percent operational this season and will be at 85 percent next season.
"We are not far enough along so that we can meaningfully judge what is going to happen," Fehr said. "Until we are, we can have our opinions, but they don't mean very much."
Nevertheless, Braves General Manager John Schuerholz, for one, did not see the current economic system as holding a solution.
"The economic reality," he said, "is that teams that operate in large markets and have more income, generate more revenue, sell more tickets, sell more sky boxes, sell more executive suites and get better support from corporate sponsors are going to have more money to spend. Teams that operate in the bulk of our markets, the mediocre-size markets or small markets, aren't going to have that revenue."
A new park, Jacobs Field, transformed the Cleveland Indians from a low-revenue team into a high-revenue team, a potential payee into a payer under the revenue sharing plan. Teams like Milwaukee, Pittsburgh and Montreal desperately hope new stadiums can work that kind of economic magic for them.
But the Rangers' Melvin said another general manager put the new-stadium-as-panacea issue in perspective: "He said that is a short-term solution, but in the long term you'll just be losing in a prettier ball park."
John Hart of Cleveland echoed that view when he was asked what it would mean for teams with new parks if the Yankees got one, too.
"If the Yankees get a new stadium and enhanced revenues, it's going to be almost impossible," he said. "You should see the Yankees every year in the playoffs, and that's not good for the game."
Jim Bowden of Cincinnati said low-revenue teams don't have the right to expect to be able to spend like high-revenue clubs.
"That's not realistic," he said.
But, Bowden added, "We have to make sure that the difference isn't as large as it is now."
At some point, Bowden said: "The players association has to come forward and say: 'It's a problem for us, too. We're not maximizing the dollars.' "
Alderson said the union will most likely become involved in trying to find a solution to the problem when it becomes in the best interest of its membership.
"If they find that 80 percent of their players feel they're out of the pennant race even before the season starts, then it's an issue that is common to both of us," he said.
Alderson said it may become necessary to allow some teams to move to alter their part of the disparity or to change the method of sharing national television revenue so that needier teams gain a larger share than wealthier teams.
Some general managers noted the larger-scale revenue sharing the National Football League operates.
"In the N.F.L.," Herk Robinson of Kansas City said, "when they pass the pie plate, you can close your eyes and take a piece, and it's all the same. Ours go from slivers to half pies."
But Cam Bonifay of Pittsburgh said the revenue disparity is "capitalism in its purest form" and will never be eradicated.
"You have to do your job as well as you can through player development and scouting, then get yourself in position where you make good baseball decisions," he said. "You might have a two- or three-year period where you have this group of players you can count on and then add to them and be very competitive for a championship."
Alderson said if the problem can't be solved in a purely economic way, it may become necessary to attack the matter from another direction, seeking ways to make teams more competitive, for example.
Perhaps, he said, teams on the wrong end of the competitively unbalanced scale could get more players from the amateur ranks or a way could be figured out to enable them to keep their salary arbitration-eligible players without affecting the arbitration process.
Attacking the problem from the competitive direction, Gord Ash of Toronto suggested the possibility of expanded playoffs.
"It would give more clubs opportunities in the post-season," he said. "I think North American fans have grown to appreciate playoff situations."
He admitted the idea in baseball bordered on heresy, but he went bravely on.
"I don't see why you couldn't go to at least five teams initially," he said, meaning the addition of one team in each league. "This year you'd have given the Yankees a bye and let the other four knock themselves out. Then let the three teams remaining have a round-robin."
Ash said the playoffs could even be expanded up to eight teams in each league but conceded, "That's probably too many."
Bowden proposed his own radical plan to make races more competitive. Establish divisions by revenue, not geography, he suggested.
"Put Cincinnati in with Pittsburgh and Montreal and Florida," the Reds' general manager said, "and let those teams have a pennant race. They may win 60 or 70 games, but at least the fans know they're in a pennant race. That's not good for baseball, but it would be a better solution than clubs being eliminated on May 20."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Expos, with the lowest payroll in baseball at $8.3 million, had such little-known pitchers as Trey Moore, left, and Javier Vazquez this year. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); OAKLAND A'S (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); TEXAS RANGERS (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%); SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); OAKLAND A'S (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (52%); TEXAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; PLAYOFF GAMES SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: ALDERSON, SANDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



575 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: For Youngsters, New World Is on Line

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 21

 BODY:
Never has the good old Model United Nations, popular for so long among the earnest high school set, seemed so pallid, so retro, so (to be read with teen-age disdain) 20th century.
This week, 100 youngsters from 10 to 16 years old from around the world attended a global forum at the Media Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The forum, called the Junior Summit, is to the quaint old Model United Nations what a personal computer is to an abacus. 
 Connected on line for months before they arrived for the summit, equipped with pagers with E-mail functions and Power Point presentation skills, the participants in the summit did not jabber about treaties and points of order. They simply plotted to change the world, using technology.
They planned to create an on-line country, to be known as Nation1, where anyone under 19 could automatically become a citizen. Adults would need a visa, or special permission, to enter. They hashed out the idea for Kidz Bank, an on-line bank for children's savings that could lend them money for worthwhile projects, and how to develop a digital currency. And they founded an on-line global newspaper for children.
They did not shoot low.
"By the year 2000, our global network shall comprise around two million people," Steven James Sutton, a 15-year-old from New Zealand, announced in ringing Churchillian tones on Friday as he rehearsed a presentation for today before a gathering of diplomats, World Bank officials, corporate sponsors and assorted dignitaries.
"We will have a network of school groups all across the world," Mr. Sutton declared. "We will have international events. We will have everyone planting trees on Earth Day."
Adults tempted to shake their heads in amusement and joke about the days when age 30, instead of 19, was the cut-off point for people who could be trusted, might do well to note: These children are backed by almost unlimited computer power from M.I.T., as well as millions of dollars from a Japanese magnate.
Isao Okawa, chairman of the CSK Corporation, which makes business software, and Sega Enterprises Ltd., the game-maker, has agreed to contribute $27 million to build a "Center for Future Children" next door to the current Media Lab building.
The donation, M.I.T. said, is one of the largest the university has received and is believed to be the biggest ever made by a Japanese individual to a foreign institution.
It means a major expansion for the Media Lab, already known for its success in winning corporate sponsors.
The lab's projects tend to focus on the intersection between technology and people, and range from wearable computers to electronic books.
In 1995, Mr. Okawa was attending a meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized countries when it struck him that although children have the biggest stake in the future, they have almost no say in determining it, said Mitchel Resnick, the Media Lab professor who oversees development of the center's programs.
The center will try "to rethink how children live, learn and play," Professor Resnick said.
He added: "We want to rethink technology to make it worthy of children of the future. The kids you see here today could do so much more technologically if we gave them the right tools."
And with those tools, the thinking goes, childhood itself would change, as children became ever more able to take on new roles. For example, becoming founders of banks and newspapers -- and nations.
"I don't know whether it's a pipe dream or not, but I think we're going to do this," said John Perry Barlow, co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which advocates freedom on the Internet, and adviser to the youths working on the Nation1 project. "I've never started a nation before, especially in three days."
But the children have begun to show, he said, "how they can start assembling, marshaling and deploying resources in a way that I think will scare the hell out of adults."
Actually, most of the youngsters' plans would gladden adults' hearts: reducing child labor, improving the environment, helping disabled children and simplifying computing. Now, will adults listen?
"There will be those who say, 'That's cute, nice to hear your voice,' and go back to what they're doing," said Terah U. DeJong, 15, of India. But some at the global forum formed fast friendships, he said, "and we expect to continue on for years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claudia Urrea, left, of the Media Lab instructed Amir Noar, 15, of Israel, center, and Petra Buhagiar, 15, of Malta on Monday at a forum at M.I.T. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9719 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CSK CORP; SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD SCSK CORP (81%); SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD (63%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CSK CORP; SEGA ENTERPRISES LTD UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); EARTH (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PHILANTHROPY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); WEARABLE COMPUTERS (76%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (75%); INTERNET BANKING (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); EARTH DAY (71%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; OKAWA, ISAO JAMES A SUTTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



576 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Asian Crisis Pushes Down U.S. Gasoline Prices

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Asia's economic collapse will depress oil and gasoline prices for nearly a decade, saving motorists in the United States about 13 cents a gallon in 2000 alone, the Energy Department said this week.
While the Asian crisis has already helped to lower energy costs, the report offers by far the strongest evidence that the effects will be deep and long-lasting. 
 In the United States, continued low energy prices are likely to limit inflation, economists say. Weak Asian demand and heavy global production also reduce the nation's vulnerability to any sudden disruption of oil imports, which account for about half of America's demand.
But the low oil and gasoline prices also hamper the fight against global warming. With oil at $13 or $15 a barrel, there are few economic incentives for saving energy or using renewable energy sources to reduce pollution that is blamed for global warming.
The oil glut has also resulted from falling production costs and the opening of new regions. The Energy Department expects higher production from the Caspian Sea, the North Sea and the waters off West Africa, as well as from Mexico, Colombia and Brazil. While some oil companies are trimming their investments, many are too far along on projects to turn back, said Jay Hakes, chief of the department's Energy Information Administration, which issued the report.
The 13-cent-a-gallon savings in the year 2000 are from the prices forecast if there had been no Asian crisis. Analysts at the Energy Department and the oil companies doubt that oil prices will necessarily remain at the present levels of less than $13 a barrel. The partial resumption of Iraqi output has recently forced prices down, leaving unleaded regular gasoline at less than $1 a gallon.
The Energy Department, relying on economic forecasts by DRI/McGraw Hill, sees Asia recovering so slowly that the average oil price in the year 2000, adjusted for inflation, will still be less than $14 a barrel. That price is about $5.50 a barrel less than the $19.50 the department predicted last year.
"Last year we were sort of seeing this like Mexico," said Mr. Hakes, referring to that country's crisis four years ago. "Where there were economic problems, they bounced back pretty quickly. This year we are seeing it as more sustained."
He cautions that it is unclear how quickly Asia will recapture foreign investment. But even if energy demand there soars once again, he says, global production can keep up.
Joseph Stanislaw, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, agreed that Asia's situation had reshaped the oil market. "The upward moving balloon of demand has been pierced by the Asian crisis," he said.
Oil companies, already trying to cut their staffs and economize, have been pessimistic about prices for the next few years. Mark Moody-Stuart, chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell, the world's largest oil company, recently predicted prices of $12 to $16 a barrel over the next two to three years.
While oil producers like Mexico and Russia might suffer, low oil prices are a boon for the United States, reducing not only inflation but also the trade deficit.
Continued low prices and rising consumption of fossil fuels, including coal, will raise carbon emissions in about the year 2010 by 33 percent over the 1990 level, the agency predicts. To comply with the Kyoto agreement to slow global warming, the United States has pledged to reduce emissions over this period by 10 percent from the 1990 level.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (61%); RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (60%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT IHS INC (61%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (53%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R JAY HAKES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



577 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Once a Political Debit, Now a Powerful Force

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
As a withering year draws to a close with her husband's threatened impeachment, Hillary Rodham Clinton prevails above the American landscape in all her signature duality.
There she is, darkly scored once more as the obsessive footnote in the persistent Whitewater investigation of Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel who ardently wants Congress to impeach President Clinton. 
 Yet there she is, too, reigning brightly on the cover of Vogue magazine -- the first time a First Lady has been featured there, a decision mandated, the editors say, by Mrs. Clinton's exuberant, triumphant campaign barnstorming to defend the careers of Democrats in Congress and thereby her husband. In weathering a trying year, Mrs. Clinton has taken on an unexpected political heft that even some Republicans have to acknowledge.
"Give her credit for getting her arms around this thing," said Rich Galen, the strategist for House Republicans who said the First Lady has progressed beyond her early errors, which Republicans gleefully exploited. "She learned the lesson that she couldn't be co-President. She stoically went through the Monica stuff and has come out shining -- and come out swinging. She's become the one beacon of light in the entire Administration."
Whatever her personal scars, Democrats gratefully note that Mrs. Clinton repaired her popular standing through the very role she once mocked as that of a one-dimensional spouse: standing by her man. But she did so by brandishing her strength in issue-oriented politics as a campaign tonic for all the lurid wallowing that marked the year.
"For Hillary, it's the best of times and the worst of times," said George Stephanopoulos, the television commentator and former White House political strategist. "She is the key to the strange success of this year. If at any moment she had winked or hinted at any real distance between her and the President, then that's it, the President loses."
As it is, the combativeness trumpeted by Mrs. Clinton herself in the first days of the President's sex scandal last January remains the keynote for both Clintons 10 months later as a skittish Congress labors to close out the impeachment struggle.
By seizing the hustings as her personal outlet in a catastrophic year, Mrs. Clinton has become widely hailed as the year's surprise politician -- the most dominant popular campaigner in the November elections that cut the Republican majority in Congress and toppled such Clinton antagonists as Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York.
"We may have just witnessed the first step in the independent life she is more likely to lead after this is all over," Doris Kearns Goodwin, the historian steeped in the struggles of Eleanor Roosevelt, said of Mrs. Clinton's ability to forge a political identity beyond her husband. "Hillary Clinton showed a certain kind of strength under enormous pressure, an ability to keep her public persona strong and classy while all the turmoil was going on about her.
"These are qualities needed in public life. Maybe it's going to be her turn next."
Some Democrats already speculate on whether she might eventually run for the Senate -- her campaign popularity was high in her home state of Illinois -- and so truly prevail beyond her husband and his harrowing incumbency. Such heady talk is remarkable considering how she was the First Lady once demonized by critics as the unelected over-reacher when her early health care effort failed. Talk-radio conservatives have long delighted in finding her ambitious hand in such haunting issues as Whitewater.
"Well now Hillary has become the Wronged Woman and has the sympathy factor, which is something everybody is much more comfortable with than the strong, determined Hillary," said Arianna Huffington, a conservative columnist, fascinated by the First Lady's resilience at the side of her husband. Ms. Huffington measured the upturn in Mrs. Clinton's popularity even before the sex scandal, the columnist said, "when she abandoned the tough issues."
The First Lady, she said, retreated to more traditional helpmate projects, including children's issues, a premillennial touring in behalf of national heritage, and her new book, "Dear Socks, Dear Buddy: Kids' Letters to the First Pets."
Mrs. Clinton remains in overdrive after her 19-state tour of speaking relentlessly for scores of Democratic candidates. She is touring Latin America, with special attention to hurricane-ravaged areas, and has national heritage trips planned to New York, Boston and California, before she heads to the Middle East with the President next month.
"Nobody, save perhaps her husband, shrugs off public humiliation as elegantly as Mrs. Clinton," concluded The Economist, the British weekly. The First Lady was hailed by the weekly as "the most ruthless of her husband's spin doctors" and his most enduring defender.
Some Clintonites still rue her reported dominance in the White House's early opposition to an out-of-court settlement in the Paula Jones sexual misconduct lawsuit -- the fuse that lit the sex-and-mendacity scandal. But they bless her steely performance since then in contending the problem was rooted in some "vast right-wing conspiracy," and not in the President's outright denial of a sexual dalliance about which he finally had to admit misleading the nation. Mr. Clinton also said he had misled his wife.
"As the year unfolded Hillary found this inner strength," said Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, explaining why the story was put on the cover. "I think she psyches herself into this battle mode and goes forward, not looking right or left. She told us she doesn't even read the newspapers."
The Vogue display coincided with Mr. Starr's latest indictment of Webster L. Hubbell, the former Justice Department official and law partner of Mrs. Clinton in Little Rock, Ark.
She was repeatedly referred to in the indictment as the Hubbell "billing partner." This was an echo of the confrontation three years ago when a composed Mrs. Clinton had to walk past a throng of journalists to go before a grand jury in Mr. Starr's unsuccessful effort to implicate her in Whitewater crimes.
"Hillary Rodham Clinton is not the kind of woman those men understand," Ms. Wintour said of the Starr investigators' frustration in trying to single out the First Lady, only to see her become the pillar in the President's job-approval rating.
Senator Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat re-elected with the aid of Mrs. Clinton, recalled the power of her campaign visits at some of the worst moments of the year for the Clintons. "She had the courage to face the cameras, a courage that brought a lot of people to their feet," Senator Boxer said. "Her special quality is to see a larger picture than the daily travail of life."
Senator Robert G. Torricelli, the Senate Democratic campaign chairman, studied Mrs. Clinton in her tour and prized her passion. "You could see the strain on her," Mr. Torricelli said. "But what is most remarkable is that there was no one even close to being in demand like Hillary Rodham Clinton as a campaigner.
"Something powerful has taken place," he said of Mrs. Clinton as the resurgent campaigner.
The hecklers still dog her with signs ("Queen of Denial"). But the Senator found them no match for the "enormous satisfaction" he saw in the First Lady's avid return to such major issues as Social Security, health care and education as she lambasted Republicans who drove her from the debating scene four years ago.
"Hillary Clinton represents for so many Americans the problems and struggles in their own lives," Senator Torricelli said. "She's obviously a symbol for my generation of people with deep personal problems in complex times. And she has survived."
The Senator said Mrs. Clinton has survived as a gifted politician, one who could find her own constituency beyond her husband's time. "I wouldn't want to be the Republican candidate to oppose her," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Latin America, Hillary Rodham Clinton was paying special attention to areas ravaged by a hurricane that left thousands dead and hundreds of millions of dollars in damage. Mrs. Clinton visited an orphanage in San Salvador with Elizabeth Calderon, wife of the Salvadoran President.(Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) VOGUE MAGAZINE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ETHICS (75%); SCANDALS (72%); SEX SCANDALS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINES, FRANCIS X; GOODWIN, DORIS KEARNS; LEWINSKY, MONICA; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



578 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Nigeria Combustible as South's Oil Enriches North

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

DATELINE: OJOBO, Nigeria, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Deep in the mangrove swamp of the Niger River Delta, Bello Orubebe pressed his nose against the window of a deserted houseboat once used by Shell oil workers. Peeking inside, he saw a simple room the size of a big closet, with bunk beds, metal lockers, an air-conditioner and a fan.
"Inside there," he said, "you have the best facilities you can think of. The best of everything you need. We, the people of the delta, have nothing. The international community must know that in Nigeria, there is a place called the Niger Delta that produces the country's oil, and we are abused and exploited." 
 Mr. Orubebe, who is 32 and describes himself as a revolutionary, was giving voice to long-simmering resentments that have finally reached the boil of outright rebellion in the delta, an oil-rich region that produces 90 percent of Nigeria's hard-currency earnings but itself lacks roads, electricity and even running water.
In recent weeks, Mr. Orubebe and other members of the Ijaw ethnic group took control of about 20 oil stations belonging to RoyalDutch/ Shell and Chevron, at one point cutting Nigeria's oil production of two million barrels a day by a third.
Ten of Shell's sites remain in the hands of young Ijaw men, who also control the hundreds of creeks and Niger River tributaries that lace the region and provide its only means of access. A week and a half ago, some Ijaw invaded an offshore oil rig belonging to Texaco and held eight employees, including three Americans, hostage over five days.
Hostage-taking and bitter complaint are not new to this desperately poor and disgruntled area of Africa's most populous country. But the recent acts of rebellion and the disruption they have caused to the flow of this country's lifeblood have rarely posed so grave a risk to stability. This is particularly so as the country staggers through an uncertain democratic transition.
At the root of the resentment are nothing less than power and money. While the largely Christian south is the source of Nigeria's oil, profits from the industry go to the Muslim north. There, they have lubricated gross levels of corruption among the generals who have ruled Nigeria for all but 4 of the last 32 years.
In the past, isolated acts against oil installations typically resulted from particular communities' grievances toward a local oil station, industry officials said. But the spread of the rebellion across such a vast territory, especially in the western delta, suggests that the actions are better organized than before and are intended to convey a broader message to the central Government.
"There's no doubt that there's been an escalation," Tom Schull, general manager of production for Chevron's Nigerian operations, said of the unrest. "The frustration of the people living in the delta in the past was between host communities and the oil companies. There has been a change recently. They're using us to express their frustrations against the federal Government."
So far the Government, which is involved in joint ventures with all the Western oil companies, has refrained from using force to stop the unrest. Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, who took over as President after the sudden death of Gen. Sani Abacha in June, has urged negotiations with the leaders of the rebellion and last week went on a tour of the eastern delta.
If the Ijaw represent those most directly affected by a system of neglect based in the north, their anger is also shared by the south's two major ethnic groups, the Ibo and Yoruba.
But the region's poverty is also cause for ethnic division. Rising violence between groups competing for oil jobs has left scores dead around the oil town of Warri, which is under a dusk-to-dawn curfew. And in October, not far from Warri, more than 700 people died after an attempt to siphon fuel illegally from a pipeline set off a devastating fireball.
The Ijaw in particular have taken aim at the Western oil companies, which generate some $10 billion a year in revenue for the Nigerian Government and have made Nigeria the world's sixth-largest oil producer. They have demanded that some of that oil money be returned to the delta to build roads, and provide electricity, running water and medical outlets. And there is talk, albeit vague, of secession and self-determination if their demands are not met.
General Abubakar, who has won praise in the West as a reformer, has at least acknowledged the existence of problems here. This month he allowed public rallies commemorating the 1995 hanging of Ken Saro-Wiwa, a delta writer who was executed after demanding reparations for the region.
The general has also pledged to overhaul the agency charged with developing the delta for its seven million inhabitants.
Shell's complex here, a "flow" station called Benisede, was one of the first to be seized. According to Shell, about 35,000 barrels of crude were pumped every day from more than 20 wells in the area, and the oil flowed through a maze of pipelines into Benisede. The company is Nigeria's largest oil investor, pumping more than half of the two million barrels that Western companies take out of the country each day.
In August, a group of Ijaw from a neighboring village took eight Shell workers hostage for a week, and the station has been closed since then, said Albert Aramabi, the external relations manager for Shell's operations in the western Niger Delta. Mr. Aramabi said that Shell was negotiating with the Ijaw over the release of its stations, but that disagreements among some Ijaw were hampering talks.
He also said the Ijaw occupying Shell flow stations were generally armed, although on a recent visit to Benisede, the 20 young men there carried no weapons. Clad in T-shirts and shorts, they moved comfortably around the station in flip-flops or bare feet.
"Until our demands are met, we will stay here," said Eric Ekereke, 28, who like almost everyone occupying the station is an unemployed villager from Ojobo. "We are very, very angry. While we are suffering, they are enjoying themselves here. They have constant power and water supply here, A.C. all around. Telecommunications to London, to anywhere in the world."
To the young men, everything at the station seemed a source of bitterness, the vague symbol of some personal injury: the helicopter landing pad that allowed Shell workers to fly in and out of the area; the station's two gas flares that once lit up the night sky.
"Until we stopped them," Mr. Orubebe said, "light at the flow station had been continuous."
"Continuous!" chimed in a local leader, Chief Zaria Torukro.
"If you do not give us light, we will extinguish yours," Mr. Orubebe said.
On a recent night, he and several other young men gathered at Chief Torukro's house, sitting around two kerosene lamps on the front porch. The rank smells of stagnant water and untreated sewage clung to the air, as it did in other houses, alleyways and every breezeless corner.
The village's generator was not working that night. Besides, it was unlikely that the power would reach Chief Torukro's house, which was a good hike from the riverbank and down a muddy, flooded road in the mangrove swamp. The chief, 70, a retired schoolteacher, offered visitors warm bottles of Coke.
"The development of the people is the responsibility of the federal Government," said Chief Torukro, frequently and loudly, swatting at the mosquitoes that dared to land on his chest and back. "We are angry at the Government, too. But we are angrier at Shell, because Shell is here."
In keeping with that widely held sentiment, residents of Ojobo tend to describe the days before Shell's arrival in the early 1970's as a halcyon age of clear river water and bountiful fish and game.
They accuse Shell of having polluted the water so that the village must supplement its catch with frozen mackerel from Warri. By the time the mackerel arrives in this fishing village, wrapped in plastic bags and sold on the riverbank, it has doubled in price, several traders said.
Gray D'Oroso, 48, the village's chief administrator, said that big animals, including antelopes and leopards, used to inhabit the area. His father was a famous hunter, Mr. D'Oroso said, adding that the trade disappeared by the early 1980's.
"The last famous hunter was College Molori," Mr. D'Oroso said. "He left Ojobo 15 or 16 years ago, and now he lives in Gabon."
Whether all that has befallen Ojobo since Shell's arrival can be attributed to it is not clear. What is clear is that, given the scant presence here of the federal Government, Shell is the most visible symbol of the neglect that plagues the region. Residents have turned to the company for compensation.
In 1996 Shell built a potable-water system that residents said has never worked. Instead, in the morning, villagers could be seen using the muddy river to bathe, wash clothes, clean food and even drink. Others living deeper in the swamp simply used the water flooding the dirt roads between their mud-and-thatch houses.
Mr. Aramabi of Shell said a contract to repair the water system had been awarded recently. Had it not been for the occupation of the Shell site, he said, residents here would probably have potable water now. He added that the company had just awarded another contract to fill a flooded area of the village with sand.
Shell spends $30 million a year in "community development" projects in the delta, far more than any other oil company spends on any other area of the world, Mr. Aramabi said. But he added that only lasting political reforms in Nigeria would lead to real improvements in the delta.
"Whatever we throw in is still a drop in the ocean," Mr. Aramabi said. "The riverine communities are crying out for development. But if one looks closely at them, the level of development required goes well beyond the capacity of the oil industry. The Government should take the lead."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Ojobo villager using the only available water supply to wash offal for the family dinner. Many in Nigeria's impoverished south are furious about the siphoning off of their oil wealth to enrich the distant north. Angry southern youths have recently occupied about 20 sites like this one owned by Shell. The region is oil-rich but lacks roads and electricity. (Photographs by Malcolm Linton/Gamma-Liaison, for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map of Nigeria shows location of Ojobo: Unemployed villagers from Ojobo have taken over a Shell plant.(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (95%); NIGER (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; CHEVRON CORP ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); SHELL OIL CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; CHEVRON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA; NIGER DELTA (NIGERIA); NIGERIA (95%); NIGER (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); RIVERS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); POLITICS (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); ETHNICITY (52%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU SIR GEORGE YOUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



579 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Washington and Baghdad Agree on One Point: Sanctions Hurt

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Even as they trade charges of duplicity and, yet again, brace for a possible military showdown, Bill Clinton and Saddam Hussein can agree on this much: The economic sanctions imposed on Iraq more than eight years ago, which Iraq has cited as the cause of the latest crisis, have devastated its economy and its people.
The Iraqis contend that their frustration over the crippling sanctions led them last month to announce an end to all cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors until the blockade was lifted. The sanctions make exceptions only for medicine, medical supplies and food. 
 Iraq backed down last weekend and allowed the inspectors to return to work only when confronted with the threat of a military strike.
Imposed on Iraq by the United Nations Security Council in August 1990, days after Kuwait was invaded, the sanctions were almost certainly not the sole reason for the Iraqis' most recent intransigence with the weapons inspections.
American officials believe that the Iraqis were just as interested in halting the inspections for fear that they were closing in on new evidence of chemical and biological weapons.
But the sanctions were equally certainly a factor in the Iraqi ultimatum. They are among the toughest imposed in the modern age and are estimated to have cost Iraq more than $120 billion in oil revenues.
The human cost has been staggering, too. Millions of Iraqis have been left without adequate food, clean water and medicine. The United Nations has estimated, based on Iraqi Government figures, that a million Iraqi children are malnourished and 700,000 have died since 1990.
Diplomats and others who have studied Iraq say that Mr. Hussein is far less concerned with people's suffering than he is with the arms import ban placed on Iraq as part of the economic blockade. Despite rampant malnutrition, he has spent hundreds of millions of dollars since the war on new marble-draped palaces.
The sanctions have deprived him of the ability to buy advanced weapons and the so-called dual-use technology that would allow Iraq to make arms of mass destruction.
Russia, France and other nations have called on the United Nations to ease the sanctions in recent years, but the United States has stood firm on the issue and largely prevailed. The Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, Tariq Aziz, said last week that the sanctions were still in place only because of "American pressure and American blackmail."
Iraq's only real relief came in 1995, when the United Nations agreed to let it sell oil to obtain necessities like food or medicine, which are exempted from the sanctions. Such an arrangement had been offered since 1991, but the Iraqis refused.
The sanctions will remain in place, the Administration has said, until Iraq meets the requirements of a series of Security Council resolutions, which include a demand that it comply fully with the inspections.
"What they really want is to be able to have it both ways," said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, "to be able to keep their weapons of mass destruction and have the sanctions lifted. That is simply not going to happen."
Sanctions were imposed on Iraq on Aug. 6, 1990, four days after Iraqi troops annexed neighboring Kuwait. The sanctions were contained in Resolution 661, which placed a sweeping economic blockade on Iraq.
After Iraq's rout in the Persian Gulf war the following year, the Security Council passed a key resolution, No. 687, which outlined the terms of the cease-fire and kept most of the economic sanctions in place. The resolution, adopted on April 3, 1991, prohibited all trade to Iraq except that involving "essential human needs," like food and medicine.
The sanctions could only be lifted when Iraq revealed and destroyed its ballistic missiles and its ability to make arms of mass destruction -- chemical, biological or nuclear. The council agreed to review Iraq's compliance every 60 days to determine whether the sanctions could end.
The United States suggested that it would have preferred a resolution tying eased sanctions to to the ouster of Mr. Hussein. "We are not interested in seeking a relaxation of sanctions as long as Saddam Hussein is in power," Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said in May 1991.
Shattered by its defeat in the gulf war, Iraq had little choice but to begin to cooperate with the United Nations. It grudgingly allowed inspectors to roam the country.
But virtually from the start, the United Nations Special Commission, which was charged with the disarming, complained that the Iraqis were lying and hiding evidence.
In August 1991, the Security Council, seeing evidence of a humanitarian disaster, offered Iraq a plan that would have allowed it to sell up to $1.6 billion worth of oil, with most of the proceeds placed in an escrow account to buy food and medicine under United Nations supervision.
Iraq refused, describing the plan as an infringement of its sovereignty. It was only in 1996, after reports of widespread malnutrition and a sharp increase in childhood mortality rates, that Iraq agreed to the oil-for-food deal.
The plan let Iraq sell $2 billion in oil every six months for food and medicine, with the proceeds spent at the direction of United Nations officials. The figure was raised last February to $5.2 billion every six months.
Although the debate has been muted by the latest crisis, members of the Security Council have disagreed in the past over the conditions that Iraq must meet to avoid sanctions.
Several countries say the language of the resolutions that ended the gulf war allow the sanctions to be lifted as soon as the Security Council determines that Iraq has shut down its weapons programs.
But the United States says its reading of the resolutions suggests that the sanctions cannot be lifted until Iraq meets other terms of the 1991 cease-fire, including restitution for property destroyed or stolen by the Iraqis after the Kuwait invasion in 1990 and an accounting for hundreds of missing Kuwaiti prisoners.
"Sanctions may stay on in perpetuity," Bill Richardson, the former American delegate to the United Nations, said earlier this year. "Sanctions are going to stay forever -- or until Iraq complies fully."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Surprise Inspection Reported
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 21 (Reuters) -- Iraq said United Nations arms inspectors made a "surprise visit" today to an installation in what would be their first unscheduled mission since returning to work four days ago.
The inspectors have pursued their task despite a new dispute over Baghdad's refusal to hand over requested documents.
Today the official Iraqi News Agency quoted Maj. Gen. Hussam Amin as saying, "A missile team carried out a surprise visit to one installation to check its monthly production records."
The statement implied that the team visited a missile site but gave no details. It was not clear whether the installation was already among the hundreds subject to long-term United Nations monitoring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (73%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); EXTORTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



580 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Global Trend Seen in German Bank Deal

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
As the board of the Bankers Trust Corporation meets today to vote on the sale of the bank to Deutsche Bank A.G. of Germany for about $9 billion, Wall Street is rife with speculation about whether a new round of megamergers is at hand.
The expected deal provides further evidence of how the increasingly intertwined global economy is forcing companies to form once unthinkable cross-border alliances. 
 "Companies are playing in a global space now," said David Berry, a financial analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. "And to be in the business of financing multinational corporations, you need to have a global presence, and you need to be in the U.S. because that's where the money and the talent are."
In its deal for Bankers Trust, Deutsche Bank is clearly being driven by this need to have greater global reach and a stronger presence in the United States, despite its ill-fated attempts to jump into investment banking previously.
The deal is expected to be announced tomorrow, with Deutsche Bank paying about $90 a share for Bankers Trust, in what would be the biggest takeover of an American financial institution by a foreign bank.
But industry experts and bank advisers said banking executives were no longer rushing into huge marriages like the one that created Citigroup from Citicorp and Travelers Group this year. Lower stock prices and an uncertain economic landscape are still combining to dampen merger fever.
"In many respects Bankers Trust is a unique case, and there aren't a lot of other big buyers out there," said Charles Peabody, an analyst with Mitchell Securities Inc.
Still, despite a cooler reception on Wall Street for mergers, some American institutions may feel compelled to follow Deutsche Bank's lead. Such moves would probably be limited to the top tier of American banks that already have an international presence or have stated their intentions to develop such a presence.
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, which had serious merger discussions with the Swiss banking concern Credit Suisse and made repeated merger overtures to Merrill Lynch & Company earlier this year, may be on the hunt again. Other possible partners for Chase include Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, and Paine Webber.
J. P. Morgan & Company, which is certain to be the subject of renewed merger speculation, is much more financially sound than Bankers Trust and has repeatedly stated its intention to remain independent.
Deutsche's plunge into high-stakes investment banking is out of fashion these days. Many European and Japanese firms have already retreated from Wall Street in the last couple of years, because they found it either too expensive or too difficult to break into that highly competitive world.
But by paying a premium of about $13 for Bankers Trust over its stock price on Friday, Deutsche is showing a renewed willingness to flex its muscles here.
Executives close to the deal said yesterday that Frank Newman, Bankers Trust's chief executive, would be made co-chief executive of the new investment banking unit created by Deutsche's acquisition of his company. It is uncertain how long Mr. Newman plans to stay on in that role, although executives involved in the merger talks dismissed the likelihood that Citigroup's former president, James E. Dimon, would take over that business.
Bankers Trust has 20,539 employees, with 11,399 in the United States and 9,140 overseas. It was already considering cutting its work force before this merger neared its conclusion, and there will probably be substantial layoffs after the merger is announced.
Under Mr. Newman, Bankers Trust has focused its activities on investment banking for small and mid-sized companies and junk bond underwriting. It also has a sizable syndicated lending business and is trying to bulk up its business as a securities custodian and a cash manager. Although more than 40 percent of its revenue has come from abroad in recent years, the bank has been scaling back its emerging markets activities and its trading operation.
The sale, however, is the result of Mr. Newman's inability to turn the company around quickly enough in an era when only a few big companies are seen as dominating the investment banking world. Bankers Trust has also been badly damaged by recent trading losses that caused certain of the bank's capital requirements to fall below acceptable regulatory standards in the third quarter.
Such losses were exactly the kind of events Mr. Newman's hiring was supposed to prevent. He came to the bank from a post with the Treasury Department and an earlier position with the BankAmerica Corporation, and had the reputation of being a conservative, risk-averse executive. Mr. Newman's penchant for high-living -- he has spent lavishly on his offices, glittering Manhattan soirees, and other executive perks -- has alienated many at Bankers Trust, and support for him from the bank's board has weakened.
Some experts said, however, that Mr. Newman faced an uphill battle trying to remake Bankers Trust. "When he signed on, he didn't have the strongest cards in the deck, and then he got shellacked this summer by big trading losses," Mr. Berry said.
Although it is technically a commercial bank, Bankers Trust has more of an investment banking profile, especially with its recent moves into equities-related businesses. The biggest move was to purchase Alex. Brown of Baltimore in a deal valued at $1.7 billion. It also bought National Westminster P.L.C.'s European equities business and the American investment banking boutique Wolfensohn & Company.
But Banker's Trust has had a rocky start with Alex. Brown, and the Wolfensohn acquisition is regarded by experts as something of a bust.
Meanwhile, several of Alex Brown's most senior executives left the firm, including the heads of its investment banking and asset management operations.
"We went from having a solid business that everyone understands to one that has a new surprise every day," an Alex. Brown executive said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
In the end, investors also appear to have grown tired of Mr. Newman and of Bankers Trust's inability to produce better returns. Between December 1995, when Mr. Newman took over, to this month, the company has provided a annualized return on equity of about 16 percent, compared with about 30 percent for its peers, according to Keefe Bruyette & Woods. And on Wall Street, a sagging stock price usually translates into a sale -- whether the company likes it or not.
Deutsche will still have a lot of work to do.
"The investment banking business appears to be attractive because the fees can be huge," said Sallie Krawcheck, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. "But the bottom line is that there is severe overcapacity. Only a handful of the top firms make money on underwriting."
Bankers Trust's shares rose sharply on Friday, climbing $5.25, or 7.3 percent, to $77.25, because of the merger speculation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (96%); DBK (FRA) (96%); DBK (BIT) (96%); DBETN (JSE) (96%); DBA (ASX) (96%); DB (NYSE) (96%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO; DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK AG (96%); BANKERS TRUST CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (71%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO; DEUTSCHE BANK AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L FRANK NEWMAN (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



581 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: Secret, Persistent Negotiations Lured the Patriots to Hartford

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 21

 BODY:
During a campaign debate just five weeks ago, Gov. John G. Rowland was asked what he was willing to do to lure the New England Patriots to Connecticut. The Governor smiled and dismissed that as "a hypothetical question, so it's very difficult to plug in hypothetical holes," then talked about other economic development ideas he considered more realistic.
In fact, a deal to move the National Football League team to Connecticut's capital had been all but sealed for two months, according to his aides. Talks were progressing so fast by late summer, these aides said, that the Governor's staff decided to put them on ice because of fears about how they might disrupt his campaign for re-election, which he won handily. 
 "We could have done the deal, probably, during the summer or early fall," Mr. Rowland, a Republican, said Friday. "But if we had announced it in September, you would have had 300 candidates for the Legislature taking positions on it, and that's not a good atmosphere for making good, concrete, sensible decisions."
Some of the Governor's strategists had feared touching off a debate over the benefits of a new stadium versus more money for schools, while others fretted that if the effort unraveled, the Governor would be blamed. "Even a whiff about the Patriots would have started a frenzy," said Fergus P. Cullen, the deputy campaign manager. "It was a risk no one was willing to take."
The secrecy looked smart on Thursday, when grinning legislators of both parties crowded behind Mr. Rowland and the Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft, for the stunning announcement that the team would abandon the Boston area, its home of 38 years, for a new stadium that Connecticut has promised to build in downtown Hartford in time for the 2001 season. The team and the state negotiated intermittently for years, and even as word of fresh discussions leaked out in the last several months, few officials outside Mr. Rowland's tight circle believed until this week that anything would come of them.
By keeping the lid on Hartford's biggest story in years, Mr. Rowland, 41, had the chance to establish a rapport with Mr. Kraft, 57, in 10 face-to-face meetings, and to dicker over the fine print outside the public glare. Now, though, the Governor faces questions about whether he drove a hard enough bargain when he promised to a build a $350 million stadium, which the team would use rent free for 30 years. The provision that is sure to draw the most scrutiny is a guarantee by the state that it would pay up to $17.5 million for unsold empty luxury seats and boxes each season.
A number of factors in both states had come together to produce the rarest of achievements: a huge stadium subsidy that was negotiated in secret and greeted with little initial public criticism.
Mr. Kraft said he needed a more modern stadium with lucrative features like sky boxes, but wanted to stay in his native New England. Yet his relations with the Massachusetts Legislature had deteriorated to name-calling. Hartford, which had been withering for decades, now had a detailed strategy for a makeover of its riverfront, championed by a business community that had tasted success when the city held a Presidential debate in 1996.
Perhaps most importantly, Mr. Rowland had made urban revitalization the keynote of his campaign, and thus was eager to land a big project to illustrate his contention that the future success of the Republican Party involved helping cities. He had spent a year building bridges to the Democrats who control both houses of the Legislature, and now had the clout that comes with winning by 28 percentage points.
As the Governor basked in his success at landing a project that could change Hartford's image overnight, a bit of a stadium hangover set in on Friday. State legislators, who must act on the plan by the end of the year, began wading through the 18-page agreement. They said they found it much more generous to Mr. Kraft than had been revealed in the summary that the Governor's office provided.
Whatever the uncertainties, legislative leaders seem determined to pass the plan in a special session in mid-December. In the meantime, Hartford is enjoying a full-blown football fever, from the vitamin store that is giving a 10 percent discount to patrons who sign a petition supporting the team, to the television station that picked out luxury homes and cars that might be suited to specific Patriots players.
"When you get the brass ring, why ask about the lead content?" asked Wilson H. Faude, executive director of the Old State House, a restored Main Street landmark that was the seat of Connecticut's post-Revolutionary government.
After months of getting-to-know-you chats between Mr. Rowland and Mr. Kraft, and countless conference calls among the Governor's aides and the Patriots' lawyers, the talks turned to real numbers in May, when the two men surveyed the future stadium site from a conference room on the 16th floor of the Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company, which has been the most visible proponent of a splashy new development on the Connecticut River.
If there were any doubts about Mr. Kraft's seriousness, he brought along Paul Tagliabue, the Commissioner of the N.F.L. Their guide was Robert F. Fiondella, president of the insurance company and sponsor of a $1 billion project called Adriaen's Landing.
Mr. Fiondella produced drawings that looked like a Tomorrowland vision of Hartford and began pointing to the features planned for Adriaen's Landing: a stadium for the Patriots and the University of Connecticut, a convention center, a hotel, a rooftop restaurant, a museum that looks like a solarium, an indoor mountain-climbing range, a jazz club, a 14-screen movie theater. Then they stepped to the window.
"Just imagine the Goodyear blimp on a Monday night, showing this majestic scene," Mr. Fiondella recalled rhapsodizing. He conjured a stadium, motioned to the river nearby, then up the hill to the gold-leaf grandeur of the Capitol dome, and finally pointed to the confluence of Interstates 84 and 91, which he called "the crossroads of the Northeast."
Mr. Kraft would say later that it was the specificity of Hartford's plans that bowled him over.
That winter, his 34-year-old son, Jonathan A. Kraft, who is chief executive of a Connecticut paper company and a Patriots vice president, had shown him pictures of the Adriaen's Landing plans that had run in the newspaper when the State Legislature approved $300 million for revitalization of Hartford. At Thursday's announcement, Mr. Kraft gestured to the lawmakers arrayed behind him and said, "When we saw that the people standing behind here had passed this legislation for the rejuvenation of Hartford, we realized that this could be an opportunity for us."
At the same time, the Massachusetts House of Representatives was continuing to balk at his demands for a new stadium. In July, in what turned out to be a goodbye card to the state, Mr. Kraft submitted a blistering Op-Ed article to The Boston Globe, complaining about the "shortsighted intransigence on the part of the leadership of the Massachusetts House," particularly its Speaker, Thomas M. Finneran. It ran with the headline "Blame the Speaker for Stadium Stalemate."
He continued talking with Mr. Rowland. "I had to read the timing of it -- when to strike and when to deliver," Mr. Rowland said Friday. Kevin B. Sullivan, the President pro tem of the Connecticut Senate, said: "There are times when the Governor's -- how do I want to say this? -- boyish enthusiasm doesn't serve him well. This is one of those times that it paid off."
On Friday, Nov. 13, only details remained. Mr. Kraft was going to fly into a private airport just outside Hartford; to avoid publicity, he and the Governor decided to meet in a hangar. When, at the last minute, Mr. Kraft drove down instead, they met in the hangar anyway, in a scene that the Governor later described as " 'Miami Vice'-like."
Mr. Rowland, who had once referred to Mr. Kraft as "very crafty," realized he would look like a fool if his deal turned out to be just a bargaining chip for the Patriots to get their way with the Massachusetts Legislature. So the last major term to be settled was a $2 million fine Mr. Kraft would pay if he opened negotiations with another state. Mr. Rowland's critics are calling it his "ego protection money."
Both men set about courting legislators. Last Sunday night, the Senate majority leader, George C. Jepsen, was drinking red wine at his Stamford home when the Governor called to tell him about the Patriots deal. The next day, in a meeting with the top six legislative leaders, Mr. Rowland spelled out the details. "We're in this together, or we're not in it," several of them quoted him as saying. That afternoon, Mr. Kraft flew to Hartford and stopped by legislators' offices to answer their questions about the deal.
At 11:30 P.M. on Wednesday, Mr. Rowland and Mr. Kraft talked on the phone. Their lawyers were still haggling, but they were close enough that the Governor told his communications director, Dean C. Pagani, that he could announce a news conference for 11 A.M. the next day.
The final "T" was crossed at 1:45 A.M.
The Governor and Mr. Kraft must now convince legislators that although the deal seems quite sweet for Mr. Kraft, the spillover effects will be a bonanza for Hartford.
One of the many unadvertised provisions of the contract is a guarantee by the state -- unusual even in these days of rich stadium deals for teams -- to pay up to $10 million a year for unsold club seats and $7.5 million for luxury suites.In addition to giving the Patriots the stadium rent-free for 30 years, the state will pay the stadium's insurance and major repair bills, and build the team a $15 million practice center elsewhere in Connecticut. The team will get the right to sell the name of the stadium.
In return, the Patriots will pay the state a 10 percent tax on ticket sales and invest $75 million in a hotel and stores for downtown Hartford. The team will keep its share of the profits from these ventures.
"It's one thing for us to subsidize a private enterprise, but now we're guaranteeing them a profit," said Representative Richard D. Tulisano, a Democrat. "God bless Robert Kraft for getting this deal. But in a recession, the state may have to decide whether it wants to buy school books or keep paying for this stadium."
At least so far, his is a lonely voice. If lawmakers change even a comma, Mr. Kraft can back out. Legislative leaders want the deal, and have even said they plan to have Mr. Kraft speak privately to their caucuses to soothe fears. The changes they are talking about are small, like asking Mr. Kraft to provide 100 or so tickets a game to underprivileged Hartford young people.
And Mr. Rowland remains a sunny salesman, ready to charm his state the same way he did Mr. Kraft.
"The only risk will be the critics, who will say we could have done something different," he said. "But for 30 years, we've haven't had any cranes in the air, and we haven't had any excitement. We're going to make this happen."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (97%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (97%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: KRAFT, ROBERT K; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); ALLEN, MIKE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



582 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says He Still Suffers Privately Over the Lewinsky Affair

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 21

 BODY:
In his most extensive remarks in weeks about the scandal shadowing his Presidency, President Clinton said with a sad smile today that he was still suffering privately over his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky, but that his political punishment was strictly up to Congress.
"For me, this long ago ceased to be a political issue or a legal issue and became a personal one," the President said. "And every day I do my best to put it right, personally." 
 Mr. Clinton, appearing before reporters with President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, spoke in answer to a question about whether Congress should punish his behavior.
Mr. Clinton smiled at first and suggested that he felt plenty punished already.
"There has been a lot of suffering," he said. "That is different from punishment, although it's hard to see the difference sometimes as you're going through it."
But the smile faded and Mr. Clinton began to stare down toward the white carpet as he said that it was "not appropriate at this time" for him to express an opinion on how Congress should act. The House Judiciary Committee opened impeachment hearings this week into charges that Mr. Clinton had committed perjury and obstructed justice in hiding his affair.
"I trust the American people," the President said, "and I hope Congress will do the right thing in a nonpolitical way, if you will, to get beyond the partisanship and go on."
The White House has argued that Mr. Clinton should not be impeached for the offenses spelled out in a report to Congress by Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel. Joe Lockhart, Mr. Clinton's spokesman, said the President had interpreted the question today to refer not to impeachment but to some intermediate measure, like censure.
Mr. Lockhart said that while it was proper for the White House to resist impeachment, it would be wrong for it "to be in a position of trying to prescribe" a punishment short of that. White House aides are anxious about seeming overconfident or offending members of Congress by publicly suggesting that they should short-circuit the impeachment process and offer a deal.
Some Democrats and moderate Republicans have floated the notion of censure, but Mr. Lockhart said, "I don't believe there is anything at this point that is specific or concrete that has been brought to our attention."
Mr. Clinton did not bristle at today's question, despite the setting -- a formal appearance in the Blue House, the South Korean President's office and residence. Standing to the President's left, Mr. Kim, for decades a dissident campaigning for democracy here, remained impassive.
Mr. Clinton has seemed increasingly confident recently about his political position. On Friday night in Tokyo, he practically sought out reporters to assure them that he was paying little attention to the hearings back in Washington. "I've been here working on these economic and security issues," he said.
Mr. Clinton, on a five-day trip to Japan, South Korea and Guam, is to return to Washington on Monday.
Today, he noted for the first time that Mr. Starr had testified to Congress on Thursday that he had not found any impeachable offenses in his investigations of the Whitewater real estate deal, the dismissal of the staff of the White House travel office, or the Administration's improper gathering of hundreds of F.B.I. files on former Republican officials. Mr. Clinton called that development a "long-awaited acknowledgment" and "a positive thing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (50%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (50%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



583 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: November 15-21;
The Fed Decides To Take No Chances

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The stock market has rebounded in the last few months, and the global financial crisis seems to have eased. But the Federal Reserve remained sufficiently concerned about the economic outlook for the United States that it cut interest rates for the third time in two months. 
 The quarter-point cut may have been the Fed's last move for a while, though. The central bank said it thinks rates are now at a level that should help the economy grow at a healthy pace. RICHARD W. STEVENSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); INTEREST RATES (84%); 

PERSON: RICHARD W STEVENSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



584 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Appeals To North Korea For Closer Ties

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 21

 BODY:
 President Clinton made an unusual direct appeal to North Korea today to set aside any nuclear ambitions in favor of strengthening ties to South Korea and the United States. The appeal came during a meeting with reporters at which he also counseled patience over Iraq's refusal to comply with a request from weapons inspectors.
"I think it's important that we not overreact here on the first day," Mr. Clinton said in response to reports that Iraq had balked at a request by United Nations inspectors for documents on its weapons program. But speaking at a joint appearance with the South Korean President, Kim Dae Jung, today, he called the requested documents "quite important" and said Iraq had "some affirmative obligations" to help weapons inspectors. 
 Aides to Mr. Clinton denied that his comments represented any softening toward Iraq. They said that because the situation was still developing and the President was preparing for meetings with Mr. Kim, he had not been briefed in detail on Iraq's resistance when he appeared before reporters today.
Samuel R. Berger, the President's national security adviser, said that the Administration was consulting with other members of the United Nations Security Council about the matter. If Iraq fails to meet its obligations under United Nations resolutions, he said, "we obviously are prepared to act."
Last weekend Mr. Clinton called off a strike against Iraq minutes before it was to begin, delayed his departure for Asia to monitor the crisis and said that American forces remained poised to strike if Iraq reneged on its agreement to let United Nations weapons inspectors do their work.
In his appearance with Mr. Kim, the President addressed a handful of questions that ranged from North Korea to Indonesia to whether the Congress should punish him over the Lewinsky scandal. Page 27.
Before leaving Washington for this five-day trip to Japan, Korea and Guam, he drew a parallel between the Governments of Iraq and North Korea, saying, "We must be no less concerned by North Korea's weapons activities." The Clinton Administration is urgently seeking to inspect a vast construction site in North Korea that it believes may be the beginnings of a nuclear weapons plant.
Today Mr. Clinton called that site, together with North Korea's test firing last August of a missile over Japan, "cause for deep concern."
But the Clinton Administration is trying an approach toward North Korea very different from that toward Iraq, partly at the urging of Mr. Kim, who is pursuing a "sunshine policy" of engagement with the North. As he and Mr. Kim delivered prepared statements and answered questions today, President Clinton became most animated in describing what he called "a very beautiful picture" that he happened to spot after turning on his hotel television on arriving in Seoul on Friday night: film of a cruise ship recently permitted to carry South Koreans on a tour into the North.
"I ask the North Koreans to think about this," he said, arguing that Mr. Kim's policy of engagement with the North presented them with a great opportunity. "Nothing could ever be put in that hole in the ground that would give the North Koreans as much advantage, as much power, as much wealth, as much happiness as more of those ships going up there full of people from here."
The Clinton Administration fears that the construction site may be evidence that North Korea has abandoned a 1994 pledge to the United States to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for billions of dollars in aid.
The North Koreans have denied that the complex is intended to help build nuclear weapons. But they have demanded that the United States pay $300 million to inspect it, a request rejected this week by an American delegation to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. The new complex is being built on a mountainside about 25 miles northeast of Yongbyon, the former North Korean nuclear research center.
Mr. Kim today continued to emphasize his hopes for a new opening toward North Korea. But he said, "We will not tolerate any possible attempt of North Korea to proliferate nuclear weapons, missiles and other weapons of mass destruction." The Clinton Administration plans to resume negotiating with North Korea over inspecting the site in December.
In addition to strategies for easing the Asian financial crisis, Mr. Clinton discussed North Korea during a visit to Tokyo on Thursday and Friday. The subject of North Korea consumed most of his two hours of meetings with Mr. Kim here today at the Blue House, which contains the Korean President's office and home.
The Administration has been criticized in Congress and in this region for letting its policy on North Korea drift, but Mr. Clinton today called that policy a "clear-eyed mix" of diplomacy and deterrence.
He said that so far the 1994 agreement had worked, because without it "North Korea already would have produced a sizable amount of weapons-grade plutonium."
Under pressure from Congressional critics, Mr. Clinton this week appointed William J. Perry, his former Defense Secretary, to review his policy on North Korea.
On other matters today, Mr. Clinton declined to criticize the Government of Indonesia for using force to crack down on protesters there, saying that he did not "have enough facts at this moment to give you the right answer." But he said that he hoped there would be "no backsliding" in Indonesia.
Mr. Clinton followed his appearance with Mr. Kim with a visit to the National Folk Museum here, where he conducted an hourlong conversation with six Korean academics, businessmen and union leaders about the troubled state of Korea's economy and its impact on the society. He attended a state dinner tonight, before stopping by a concert where his brother, Roger, a musician, happened to be performing.
President Clinton repeatedly congratulated Mr. Kim today for his efforts at economic reform, noting that interest rates had fallen here and the currency had stabilized. But he also pressed Mr. Kim during their private meetings to restructure the five huge conglomerates, or chaebols, that account for some 40 percent of the Korean economy. In describing the leaders' conversation, Mr. Berger called restructuring the chaebols "perhaps the most serious remaining problem in the South Korean economy."
Mr. Clinton said during the economic forum this afternoon that he felt impatient about South Korea's failure to act on the chaebols. It may be necessary to proceed slowly with the restructuring, he said, "but they should begin."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton Visits U.S. Troops
 
SEOUL, South Korea, Sunday, Nov. 22 (AP)
President Clinton visited with American troops today near the demilitarized zone that divides the Korean peninsula.
At a training center, Mr. Clinton, wearing a green flight jacket, shook hands with the crews of M-1 tanks, Bradley fighting vehicles and Korean battle tanks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and President Kim Dae Jung in the foyer of the Blue House, the presidential mansion, before the start of their talks yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; IRAQ; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); CRUISES (62%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KIM DAE JUNG (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



585 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 19; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Hunt Isn't That Hard;
Lots of Good Places, If You Leave Manhattan

 BODY:

To the Editor:
No one must pay $3,000 a month for an apartment. Jennifer Steinhauer and Edward Wyatt chose that life style of their own free will. Their experience is not typical of most renters in New York City. 
 It is an economic reality that 55 years of rent regulations combined with the fact that water surrounds the borough of Manhattan has created a skewed, expensive and unnatural housing market.
There are lots of reasonably priced, lovely residential neighborhoods outside Manhattan. Come take a look.
 
SID MILLER
Mott Haven, Bronx
 
The writer is a licensed real estate broker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); WRITERS (86%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (85%); HOUSING MARKET (85%); 

PERSON: MILLER, SID

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



586 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Job Crunch Spurs Child-Care Benefits

BYLINE: By CAROL STEINBERG 

 BODY:
ON a crisp Wednesday afternoon recently, Rob Eifert of Bay Shore and his 22-month-old son, Jacob, stood on the beach at Cold Spring Harbor, skipping rocks into the sailboat-lined water. They walked into the park-like grounds of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory that overlook the harbor and gazed into goldfish ponds scattered amidst the lush greenery.
Then, the hour was up. Time for Jacob to return to his child-care center, and for Mr. Eifert to get back to his job -- both located on the laboratory's 107 acres. 
Ever since last November when Jacob began spending two days a week at the center, the two have been regular lunch pals.
"It's like night and day," Mr. Eifert said. "Spending time with him in the middle of the day is very important to him and to me."
With increasing numbers of working parents and a tight labor market here, more Long Island employers are expanding child-care services to attract employees.
Carol Slippen, resource and referral coordinator at the Child Care Council of Suffolk, a nonprofit referral agency, said that for years few companies were interested in these benefits, but right before last summer her phones started to ring.
"Now we're seeing more interest generated because employers are fighting for the same pool of people to hire," she said.
According to statistics compiled by the Child Care Councils of Nassau and Suffolk, there are about 28 on-site child-care centers on Long Island.
The councils said there are child-care centers at six companies, seven colleges/universities, six school districts, four community agencies, four hospitals, and one government office building.
In addition, four consortiums, ranging from two to 28 employers, sponsor centers near their offices. One company supports an off-site center, and hundreds of companies offer referral services.
But since 1992, only two companies have set up on-site centers. The American Institute of Physics in Woodbury created a center for 25 children in 1994, and Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory opened its center in June, 1997.
Dana Friedman, a Port Washington-based child-care consultant who previously headed the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan that studies work-life issues, said Long Island "has been slow, compared certainly to the New York region."
"It's been very frustrating for a lot of advocates because there have been many attempts to educate employers about the range of options," said Dr. Friedman, a senior vice president at Bright Horizons Family Solutions, which operates 280 on-site corporate centers nationwide, but none on Long Island.
She cited much greater activity in Rochester and Westchester Counties, and New Jersey, and, outside the metropolitan region, in Massachusetts, Chicago, California, and Seattle.
Some local employees, although grateful for the help they do receive from their employers, feel the gap.
Linda Klein of Seaford sends 9-year-old Jeremy to The Next Generation, a child-care center in Melville, on school vacations while Mrs. Klein works nearby at NEC America.
NEC America subsidizes the backup care tuition. "It's a nice added perk to have," Mrs. Klein said.
But Mrs. Klein, who is expecting a baby in February, said that her employer does not offer daily care. For that, she will rely on her sister.
"I'd like to see some of the companies on Long Island more concerned about providing care for mothers who want to or have to come back to work," she said.
The company said it has no plans to add more child-care benefits.
In the late 80's and early 90's, child-care experts had watched a flurry of companies begin to offer child-care benefits, including child care centers, referral services, tax-free spending accounts and flexible work schedules, on the Island. On-site centers were set up by CMP Media in Manhasset, Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, European American Bank in Uniondale, and Computer Associates International in Islandia.
But experts said interest died due to several factors, including the lingering recession here.
In addition, they said that Long Island employers faced other obstacles: tight state licensing and local zoning regulations, expensive real estate and lack of ground-floor space, and a predominance of small employers.
"We find that they are interested initially until they get down to the bottom-line," Ms. Slippen of the Child Care Council of Suffolk said.
Several major employers here said they had not pursued on-site or off-site child care either because of cost, space constraints or lack of demand.
Kathy Engel, vice president of human resources at Ademco, a Syosset-based manufacturer of security systems, said, "It wouldn't be a benefit for all employees."
While corporate involvement has been slow on the Island, the number of child-care sites has grown three-fold since 1990, fueled by the emergence here of national chains, such as Tutor Time, a child-care company, and independent centers.
Despite this, demand continues to outweigh supply, especially for infants and after-school care. In Suffolk and Nassau, there are only 18,400 and 19,600 child-care slots, respectively, for an estimated 45,000 and 40,000 children under the age of 13 who need child-care, according to the counties' child-care councils.
Recently, more companies here have been revisiting the subject.
"It's just beginning to pick up," Dr. Friedman said.
Lyle Greenman, president of First Class Child Care of Plainview, which operates The Next Generation and two other centers on the Island, sees rising interest among smaller companies with less than 500 employees, and manufacturers, in addition to white-collar employers. Some companies have contracted with The Next Generation to provide child care for their employees.
This renewed interest coincides with national trends. According to the Child Care Information Exchange in Redmond, Wa., about two-thirds of child-care organizations cite an increase in serious inquiries from employers, sparked by job candidates with higher expectations for work/life benefits.
"The economy is really what does it," Dr. Friedman said. "Where there is a demand for labor, you find companies interested in this."
The 8,000-employee Underwriters Lab in Melville is cautiously studying child-care options from a recruitment and retention standpoint, its human resource manager, Hanita Alexander, said.
The Estee Lauder Company, which has 2,000 employees in Melville, discontinued its referral program last year after only three employees had used it. Now, a task force is assessing the need for day-care services.
ADP Investor Communication Services of Edgewood, a division of Automatic Data Processing, is one company with plans in progress.
Until now, ADP just referred its 600 employees to day-care centers and offered tax-free flexible spending account for dependent care.
Employees had occasionally suggested on-site or nearby child care, said Michael Moreau, the division's senior director of human resources. Then, last April, ADP surveyed them about work/life benefits; a health club and child care took top spots.
Now, ADP is sponsoring a $2.6 million child- and elder-care center under construction two blocks away. Scheduled to open in February, the 22,000-square-foot center will be operated by the Community Programs Center of Long Island in Deer Park. It will house 200 children, ages two months to kindergarten, and 60 frail elderly.
Paul Arfin, the center's executive director, said ADP contributed $100,000 in seed money; he is scouting other corporate sponsors.
Mr. Moreau expects about 40 employees to initially sign up for child-care. ADP will subsidize tuition on a sliding scale based on family income.
Given the competitive labor market, ADP's goal is to be viewed as "an employer of choice," Mr. Moreau said. "I've got to believe that if someone who has child-care needs is looking at two companies, and one offers a program, that will influence the decision."
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory's child-care center was a long time in coming. Administrators felt that the center would accommodate scientists' flexible schedules and the 50 of its 612 employees who live on the campus.
Just as plans materialized, a rezoning moratorium in the Village of Laurel Hollow delayed the center for two years. It also took two years to raise $1 million from individuals and several foundations, which was used to renovate 19th century stables into the crib- and toy-filled child-care center.
After reviewing nine day-care operators, a committee chose Rainbow Chimes of Huntington to manage the center. Thanks to the lab's subsidy, parents pay $715 a month, compared to $750 to $860 at Rainbow Chimes' other site in Huntington.
Currently, 42 of the 50 slots are filled. In the first year, the nonprofit lab contributed $70,000 to operating costs, $20,000 more than expected to compensate for lower enrollment.
Meanwhile, a spokeswoman at the lab, Wendy Goldstein, said the center has not "been a make or break difference" in drawing lab employees. Several parents indicated otherwise.
Before Maureen Cowan joined as a lab technician here last August, she had contemplated another position. It had more advancement potential, but lacked child-care. "Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory is prestigious, but at this point in my life, day-care was the deciding factor," said the 22-year-old single mother.
Ms. Cowan is among the 10 or so parents who regularly drop in every lunch hour. She usually feeds yogurt to Kieran, 1, and then plays with him.
Asked why she comes, she answered simply, "Because I can. I miss him."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 22 about Long Island companies' increases in day-care benefits misstated the number of employees at Underwriters Laboratory in Melville. It is 850, not 8,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Next Generation in Huntington, employers pay part of the day-care tab. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BFAM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (73%); NAICS624410 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (52%); SIC8351 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS; COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (73%); BRIGHT HORIZONS FAMILY SOLUTIONS INC (52%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS; COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); ; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DAY CARE CENTERS; LABOR CHILD CARE (92%); BEACHES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PARENTS (73%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, CAROL MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



587 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Camden, a Troubled City at War With Itself

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

DATELINE: CAMDEN

 BODY:
In August, when Governor Whitman appointed a Financial Review Board to manage the finances of this troubled city, Councilman Ali Sloan El rejoiced.
"It was the best news the people could possibly have," said Mr. Sloan, who represents the city's Second Ward. "For once, people from outside the political machine were going to come in and protect the residents from what had happened before. They were going to end the mismanagement and backroom dealing that have been keeping the city down." 
 His elation was short-lived.
On Tuesday, Mr. Sloan El announced that Camden Residents Against U.S. Water, the citizens group he heads, will file suit in Superior Court against Mayor Michael Milan and the state Financial Review Board.
He said he wants to block the privatization of the city's water and sewer utilities. The no-bid contract with U.S. Water, of Chicago, worth $215 million, had been approved by the City Council and conditionally approved by the review board earlier this fall. In exchange for the $215 million, the company would oversee the city's water supply for the next 20 years, beginning in the fiscal year 2000, with the goal of improving a badly deteriorated system.
The privatization of Camden's water supply is one of many issues before the Financial Review Board, which has been meeting sporadically here since Sept. 3. Charged with revising the $112 million annual budget of a city whose finances were characterized by an agency of the Department of Community Affairs as being in "imminent peril," the seven-member board holds the power over all city contracts, financial procedures and staffing.
Proponents of privatization believe that by reducing staffing and modernizing billing procedures, U.S. Water, which has a regional office in Somerville, will save enough to prevent a rate increase. The contract that has been approved requires that U.S. Water employ local residents in making repairs to the system, but does not specify how those repairs will be financed.
 "What the Board is doing is worse than politics as usual," said Mr. Sloan El, one of two council members who had voted against the water and sewer contract in September. "This time, the mayor and the board are in cahoots with political interests at the expense of the residents."
A spokesman for the mayor said Mr. Milan declined to comment.
Mr. Sloan El identified the political interests as former Mayor Randy Primas, who is now vice president and managing director of Commerce Bank, based in Cherry Hill, and Hazel Gluck, a former state Lottery commissioner and now a lobbyist, whom he said stood to benefit if U. S. Water of Chicago gains control of the city's water supply.
Commerce Bank is a financial adviser to U.S. Water and Decotis, Fitzpatrick & Gluck wrote the contract, which included a $20 million "concession fee" to be paid to the city from revenue generated by its 54,000 rate payers. Mrs. Gluck's son, Michael, is a partner in DeCotis, Fitzpatrick & Gluck.
Moreover, Mr. Sloan El said, the taxpayers -- more than a third of whom live below the poverty level -- "cannot afford a rate increase, which this contract assures that they're going to get."
And he characterized Stephen R. Sasala Jr., the deputy commissioner of the state Department of Community Affairs who is acting chairman of the Financial Review Board, "as a man with a political agenda who speaks out of both sides of his mouth."
Mr. Sasala, 48, has been a city planning director in Bridgeport, Conn. From 1991 to 1994 he was Camden County's business administrator, and then served for two years as a deputy commissioner of the state Department of Corrections.
For his part, Mr. Sasala said in an interview last week that there were no "larger political motives" compelling the board to give control of the city's water supply to U.S. Water "though, the fact that the board might be dealing with some familiar faces has become, for some members of the public, a smoking gun."
Among the actions the review board has taken so far has been the elimination of some city jobs and, acting at the behest of State Attorney General Peter Verneiro, and the placing of the financial operations of the city police department under the control of County Prosecutor Lee Solomon. The police chief retired last month after heading the department for nearly two years, and by most accounts the department was adrift.
Over the past two years, the department has been plagued by excessive overtime expenses and accusations of corruption. And although until now there have been no indictments, United States Attorney Kevin T. Smith has been investigating the relationship between the police department and the city's criminal element.
In the coming months, the board will evaluate the city's policies regarding the privatization of building inspections, the dispensation of welfare benefits, the budget for the city's fire department and explore ways of financing improvements to the city's deteriorating infrastructure.
Though the board has extensive power, it is not the first agency to try to wrest control of this former port city, which at one time was also the manufacturing capital of South Jersey. In the last two decades the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and the local Finance Review Board (a division of the Department of Community Affairs, which Mr. Sasala currently heads) have attempted rescue operations involving the city's budget, revenue collection, parking authority, housing authority and its empowerment zone -- but with little success.
According to Mr. Sasala, the state has supplied $1 billion in "extraordinary municipal aid" to the city since 1989. It has also helped sponsor new construction in the city, including the Sony Blockbuster E-Center theater and the state aquarium.
But despite these improvements, the city's tax base has continued to decline. The once-plentiful jobs for unskilled workers at RCA and the Campbell Soup Company as well as in shipyards along the Delaware River have disappeared. The companies have moved their manufacturing operations outside the city, and the shipyards have all closed down.
Frank Fulbrook, who owns and operates a number of apartments and parking lots in the city and who is running for City Council, said that he opposed the Financial Review Board "because I thought it was another example of outside interests coming in to exploit the city."
"It's still a little early to judge," Mr. Fulbrook said, "but it seems that, in view of the way the board handled the water deal, well-connected people are taking steps to enrich themselves. That's nothing new in Camden."
Jane Kenny, commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs who is also chairwoman of the Financial Review Board, denied that the board was favoring outside political interests.
"Nobody's telling us what to do," Ms. Kenny said. "We're not usurping anyone's power. Our only agenda is help get this city back on its financial feet. In so doing, we are devoting more time to the city of Camden than any other city in the state. I spend at least one full day a week on Camden. Steve Sasala spends at least that."
In addition to Ms. Kenny and Mayor Milan, the Financial Review Board includes State Treasuer James A. DiEleuterio; Paul J. Cavaliere, senior vice president of United Jersey Bank; Gerard M. Banmiller, chief executive of the Community National Bank; Bryan K. Finnie, managing director of the Camden Empowerment Zone; and John P. Rivera, a director of the state Economic Development Authority. The board is also assisted by five employees of the community affairs agency who have been assigned to the city.
Mr. Sasala said approving contracts that involve "people who have had, or continue to hold, a perceived political relationship with the city is a difficult choice, but one that the board must be able to make if we feel the contract is the best for everyone concerned."
He admitted that one of the board's larger concerns was its very existence. Under current state legislation, the board's powers extend only to June 1999, the end of the current fiscal year.
"Whatever opportunity we have to do anything constructive about Camden's fiscal health falls under that time constraint," Mr. Sasala said. "It's unrealistic to expect that any of the changes we make will show a quick result in a city that's as far gone as Camden. We're hoping to have the board's future extended for another year, but I expect we'll have have a tough time proving to the public what benefit our decisions may have."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the New Jersey section on Nov. 22 about financial and legal difficulties in Camden discussed the award of a $215 million contract to U.S. Water of Chicago to oversee the city's water and sewer utilities.
The article said a no-bid contract had been approved by the Camden City Council and conditionally approved by the Financial Control Board, which was appointed by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. That was erroneous; the city received proposals from four companies, including U.S. Water.
In fairness, the article should have sought a comment from U.S. Water. In a letter, a spokeswoman said, "U.S. Water was selected for this contract, and the contract was approved by all governing bodies, not because of political connections, but because of the project's merits."
Camden's paid advisers during the selection procedure were former Mayor Randy Primas, now a vice president and managing director of Commerce Bank, and the Trenton law firm of DeCotis, Fitzpatrick & Gluck. The article misstated the role of Commerce Bank. It did not advise U.S. Water; the company was represented by the law firm of Piper & Marbury.
In discussing other current Camden issues, the article misstated the title of Kevin T. Smith, who is investigating the relationship between the police department and the city's criminal element. He is an assistant United States Attorney in New Jersey, not the United States Attorney.
The article also misstated the given name of Camden's Mayor. He is Milton Milan, not Michael.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen R. Sasala Jr., the deputy commissioner of the state Department of Community Affairs who is acting chairman of the Financial Review Board, left, is master of all he surveys in Camden from his office overlooking the troubled city. Below, County Prosecutor Lee Solomon, right, who for now is overseeing the city's police department, meets with senior officers on the force. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE -- Camden"
In the last 40 years, Camden has lost many of its manufacturing jobs. Its population has declined as well.
Chart lists several demographic statistics for Camden as compared to state averages for New Jersey. (Source: New Jersey State Police, U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (51%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); ; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; POLICE; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); LOBBYING (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); LOTTERIES (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: KENT, BILL SLOAN EL (79%); CAMDEN RESIDENTS (64%); MICHAEL MILAN (59%); STEPHEN R SASALA JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1998



588 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Week's Treasury Sales Include 2-Year Note

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week offers today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and the auction of a two-year note tomorrow.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three month bill was 4.35 percent and the rate on the six-month issue 4.39 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 4.58 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Cincinnati Bell, $150 million bonds due in 2028, ---/---/---. Salomon Smith Barney.
HRPT Properties Trust, $75 million of monthly income senior notes due in 2013, ---/---/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Cumberland Valley School District, Pa., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
State of Ohio, $150 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Housing Authority of the City of New Brunswick, $59.5 million of lease revenue refunding bonds for Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority, $573.6 million of debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
Massachusetts Health and Education Authority, $85 million of debt securities for Memorial Hospital. Paine Webber Inc.
Minneapolis Education Development Authority, $70 million of debt securities for Walker Methodist. Ziegler Securities.
Solvay Paper, $125 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: CBB (NYSE) (56%); CWH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); CINCINNATI BELL INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); COMMONWEALTH REIT (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); WALKER METHODIST HEALTH CENTER (53%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TAX LAW (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



589 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
When Cultures Clash, the Results Are Fatal

BYLINE: By WILBORN HAMPTON 

 BODY:
In June 1982, a Chinese-American named Vincent Chin was given a bachelor party at a bar in Detroit. An argument broke out between Chin and two men who had been employed by the Chrysler Corporation. They thought Chin was Japanese and saw in him an opportunity to strike a blow for the failing American automotive industry. They later drove around looking for Chin, found him in a McDonald's parking lot, and beat him to death with a baseball bat. They were given suspended sentences on manslaughter charges and fined $3,780 each.
As sad as Chin's story is, it could not in itself sustain a full-length play. But in "Carry the Tiger to the Mountain" Cherylene Lee has used Chin's murder as the cornerstone to build a taut and sometimes humorous docudrama that examines the hardships of immigrant experience, revisits the social and economic landscape of the early 1980's, recalls America's love affair with the automobile and expounds on the beneficial powers of the Chinese discipline of tai chi. 
 With scenes that move back and forth in time, Ms. Lee tracks Chin's mother, Lily, from her arrival from Canton in 1947 for an arranged marriage to her campaign to find justice against her son's killers.
Under the astute direction of Ron Nakahara, the Pan Asian Repertory production is revved up like an old V-8. The actors move between parodies of singing car commercials on television to tai chi lessons (the play's title is taken from the name of a tai chi exercise) to courtroom confrontations without missing a beat. The fatal fight, choreographed in slow motion and in freeze-frame (while the action cuts to Chin's mother and fiancee looking at a house for the couple) is grimly effective.
The Pan Asian cast of 10 brings a lot of energy to the enterprise. Wai Ching Ho delivers a strong yet touching performance as the victim's mother. Andrew Pang and Jennifer Kato are sympathetic as Chin and his fiancee. Cornell H. Riggs's set of billboards, each adorned with a different car advertisement, along a stretch of highway, is excellent.
 
CARRY THE TIGER TO THE MOUNTAIN
Pan Asian Repertory

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Hsu, left, and Wai Ching Ho in "Carry the Tiger." (Corky Lee/"Carry the Tiger to the Mountain")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CARRY THE TIGER TO THE MOUNTAIN (PLAY)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PAN ASIAN REPERTORY CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN ASIAN REPERTORY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); THEATER (90%); MARTIAL ARTS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MURDER (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MANSLAUGHTER (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); SENTENCING (70%); MARRIAGE (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: HAMPTON, WILBORN; LEE, CHERYLENE; NAKAHARA, RON VINCENT CHIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



590 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Cable Companies Homing In on the Internet

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Attempts to transmit Internet data over cable television wires have generally focused on only the largest cable system operators. But high-speed data options for smaller cable companies and their customers are set to expand over the next few weeks as Internet companies move into rural areas.
Softnet Systems, a small company based in Mountain View, Calif., intends to announce an agreement today to acquire Intelligent Communications, a private concern based in Fremont, Calif., for about $10.5 million in stock, according to executives close to the companies. Softnet hopes that the deal will enable it to offer small cable operators a direct satellite link to the Internet. 
 And next week at the Western Cable Show in Anaheim, Calif., the At Home Corporation, an Internet venture that is backed by many of the nation's largest cable carriers, intends to announce a ready-made data solution for small and medium-sized cable operators, according to executives close to At Home.
Only a minuscule fraction of American consumers are now able to tap the Internet at speeds faster than the 50 or so kilobits a second allowed by analog modems. The cable television and local telephone industries are vying to be the first to offer widespread Internet access at office-caliber speeds, which are much higher.
Last week, Softnet reached deals to sell its operations that distribute office telephone equipment and that create microfiche documents for about $12 million in cash and short-term notes. The company now hopes to focus on its ISP Channel unit, which helps small cable operators get their customers on line.
Lawrence Brilliant, the chief executive of Softnet, is looking to Intelligent Communications to carry out that strategy. Founded in the early 1990's by former Xerox Corporation executives, Intelligent Communications had about $3 million in revenue last year and owns technology that allows two-way Internet communications using satellites and relatively small dish antennas -- about five feet in diameter -- according to executives close to the planned acquisition deal.
Softnet's business plan is based on the assumption that satellites provide a more economical way than do expensive high-speed fiber optic cables to link cable systems in remote areas to the Internet.
By contrast, At Home intends to stick with terrestrial links for its new system, according to executives close to the plan. The big difference between At Home's previous deals with cable companies and the new plan is that under the new system, At Home would bear more of the initial cost of creating those links (and cable affiliates would bear less), and At Home would keep a bigger percentage of the future profit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOFTNET SYSTEMS; INTELLIGENT COMMUNICATIONS; AT HOME CORP AT HOME CORP (84%); XEROX CORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOFTNET SYSTEMS; INTELLIGENT COMMUNICATIONS; AT HOME CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; CABLE TELEVISION; TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SATELLITES CABLE INDUSTRY (97%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MODEMS (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); FIBER OPTICS (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



591 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Gore Rejected C.I.A. Evidence of Russian Corruption

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
When the Central Intelligence Agency uncovered what its analysts considered to be conclusive evidence of the personal corruption of Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia in 1995, they sent it to the White House, expecting Clinton Administration officials to be impressed with their work.
Instead, when the secret C.I.A. report on Mr. Chernomyrdin arrived in the office of Vice President Al Gore, it was rejected and sent back to the C.I.A. with a barnyard epithet scrawled across its cover, according to several intelligence officials familiar with the incident. 
 At C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va., the message seemed clear: The Vice President did not want to hear allegations that Mr. Chernomyrdin was corrupt and was not interested in further intelligence reports on the matter.
As a result, C.I.A. analysts say they are now censoring themselves. When, for instance, the agency found that it cost a German business executive $1 million just to get a meeting with Mr. Chernomyrdin to discuss deals in Russia, it decided not to circulate the report outside the C.I.A., officials said.
Mr. Gore, who held regular talks with Mr. Chernomyrdin that became an important channel for relations with Russia, declined to comment on the handling of the report. "I never discuss top-secret documents," Mr. Gore said in an interview.
Yet a senior aide to Mr. Gore said his office always wants more intelligence, not less. "The real attitude around here about intelligence is, can't do business without it," the aide said.
But that was not the lesson learned at the C.I.A. The incident has fostered a perception in the agency's ranks that the Administration is dismissive of "inconvenient" intelligence about corruption among the Russian leaders with whom White House and State Department officials have developed close personal relationships.
These complaints seem unrealistic to the White House and foreign policy officials who insist that they could not allow allegations of corruption to deter them from working with the Russian leadership on a range of issues, from curbing the spread of weapons to increasing American trade with Russia. Some add that making corruption among the Russian leadership a high priority would be a losing battle.
"What does the C.I.A. want us to do, not deal with the Prime Minister of Russia?" a senior Administration official said.
This disagreement between the C.I.A. and the White House has flared during Russia's economic crisis, and C.I.A. officials argue that the White House should be more interested in unvarnished information about corruption in Moscow, especially as the United States and other nations were trying to determine whether Russia deserved billions' more in Western aid money.
Instead, these critics say the Administration seems willing to try to deal with the crisis with one eye closed.
"They never want to hear this stuff," complained an intelligence official who asked not to be identified. Another said: "They don't ignore it. But they don't want to have to act on it."
Several senior Administration officials acknowledged in interviews that they had received a number of reports from the C.I.A. alleging corruption by Mr. Chernomyrdin, who was ousted as Prime Minister in March and made an unsuccessful bid to return to the post this fall. Officials also say the agency has submitted many other reports alleging corruption among other senior Russian leaders, including Anatoly B. Chubais, who until recently was considered by Administration officials to be one of their closest and most important Russian allies on economic reform.
But the Administration officials contend that the C.I.A. reports never contained enough evidence to prompt them to distance themselves from Mr. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Chubais or other senior Russian officials who had become important counterparts in diplomatic and economic relations.
In fact, several Administration officials were dismissive of the C.I.A. reports, saying they were often inconclusive and thinly sourced. Those officials also said that they had frequently asked the C.I.A. for more conclusive proof, but that the agency never delivered.
"To my knowledge, they have never presented us with a smoking gun," an Administration official said. "I would describe some of the agency's material as being in the realm of rumor."
C.I.A. officials counter that the Administration established impossibly high standards of proof to make it easier for the White House and State Department officials to dismiss their reports.
"These people have expected something no one in the intelligence community could provide -- judicial burden of proof,' an agency official said. "Did we have an authenticated videotape of the person actually receiving a bribe? No. But reporting from established, reliable sources was written off as 'vague and unsubstantiated.' "
Agency analysts refused to describe much of the classified evidence they provided the Administration against Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Chubais. But they insisted that it was more detailed and conclusive than allegations of bribery and insider dealing than have been made in the Russian media and elsewhere.
In response, Andrei Trapeznikov, a spokesman for Mr. Chubais in Moscow, complained that if the C.I.A. had evidence against Mr. Chubais, the agency should make it public.
"If they have something, they should tell it officially," said Mr. Trapeznikov, head of press relations for Unified Energy Systems, the Moscow company where Mr. Chubais is now president. "We haven't seen these reports."
Told that Administration officials had been dismissive of much of the C.I.A. reporting, Mr. Trapeznikov said, "I think that shows the situation."
Mr. Chernomyrdin was unavailable for comment, and his staff refused to discuss the matter when reached in Moscow.
The Administration never even paid much attention to the many allegations that have been made publicly against both men over the last several years. Mr. Chubais, unpopular in Russia for his management of the economic reforms, was ousted from the Yeltsin Government for a time last year after reports that he and four other Government officials had each accepted $90,000 in advances for a proposed book on the country's privatization efforts. The publisher was partly owned by a bank that had made several successful bids in privatization sales.
The privatization program itself has also been at the center of charges of insider dealing benefiting a handful of the new Russian oligarchs.
Meanwhile, Mr. Chernomyrdin, the former head of Russia's huge natural gas monopoly, Gazprom, has been publicly accused of using his influence over Gazprom's privatization program to make himself one of the country's richest men. His personal fortune has been estimated to be as high as $5 billion, his Russian critics have said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (97%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (97%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ETHICS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ETHICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); RISEN, JAMES; CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



592 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Two Men With a Plan: Revitalizing Schenectady

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

 BODY:
The only name that used to count in Schenectady was General Electric. Now the new names to reckon with are Roger and Neil.
As in: "Not much happened until Roger and Neil got together." That is what George L. Robertson, president of the Schenectady Economic Development Corporation, said. 
 And, "Now Roger and Neil have stepped up to the plate, and we're beginning to hit a lot of singles, and that's what we need -- a lot of singles, instead of the home run that many of the town fathers were looking for." That comes from David Oliker, president and chief executive of MVP Health Plan Inc., a 300,000-member health maintenance organization with headquarters here.
Roger is Roger H. Hull, the president of Union College, and Neil is Neil M. Golub, president of Price Chopper supermarkets.
The college president and the grocery magnate have emerged as a two-man urban redevelopment team determined to revive this decaying Mohawk River factory town of 65,000.
Schenectady has been struggling since the early 1960's when General Electric began moving 30,000 jobs to other cities and countries. Mr. Hull said that when he came to Schenectady, the business community was interested in getting people to start shopping downtown again, a short-term fix he said did not address underlying economic problems.
Mr. Hull and Mr. Golub have stunned Schenectady with an ambitious plan to build an eight-screen movie theater, a 50,000-square-foot trade show center, a new hotel and a combination bus and train station to greet the high-speed trains that will arrive from New York City. They even got Gov. George E. Pataki to promise $22 million for the construction of a new state office building downtown for the Department of Transportation, which will bring an estimated 5,500 new jobs to the city.
The two men are unalike in many ways. Mr. Golub, 61, is a blunt businessman and a prominent Republican in upstate New York. Mr. Hull, 56, is a liberal on many social issues and his sentences often lapse into an academic indirection. Mr. Golub is a golfer and a philanthropist. Mr. Hull is devoted to tae kwon do and running -- he once ran up 1,575 steps to the top of the Empire State Building in the annual stair-climbing race.
The two began working together from the moment they met in 1991, when Mr. Hull arrived to head Union College.
"Our personalities may be very different," Mr. Hull said, "but at the same time, we're both optimists, and we believe we can get things done."
Mr. Golub agreed. "Roger always has ideas," he said. "He's always able to lay out the options and ask, 'Where are we going and where do we want to be in 20 years?' Roger is in a business where you've got to make things happen, and I'm in a business where you've got to make things happen."
Mr. Golub's father, William, had also been concerned with the city's future, and left his son $1 million to use for the betterment of the city. With the money, Mr. Golub and Mr. Hull formed Schenectady 2000, a civic organization to foster improvement programs, in 1992.
They hired an urban planner to conduct a survey of the city's best features -- the riverfront, the old Stockade brownstone district, the college, the Proctor's Theater -- and devise a way to revitalize those features. Next they looked for financial and political investment that would help the city shine again.
Governor Pataki helped their cause by creating a new Metroplex Development Authority, which will receive $50 million in bonds to spend in the city and the county. The bonds are to be paid off by raising the county sales tax .05 percent, making the total tax 7.5 percent.
That the revival of downtown has been spearheaded by a college president and a supermarket president stands in sharp contrast to the way things used to work around here.
"This was a company town -- G.E. ran the town," said Mr. Robertson, the head of the economic development corporation. "Even in the 1970's, every not-for-profit board had a G.E. executive on it, and before anything was decided, everybody turned their eyes down to the end of the table to see what G.E. wanted to do."
Now General Electric is mostly gone and Schenectady has the hollowed-out feeling that characterizes several other old industrial centers here in the Mohawk Valley. And any thought of trying to arrest the decline was stalled by the vain hope that General Electric would bring jobs back, Mr. Robertson said.
"The county government sat there for 20 years while this city went downhill and they didn't do a thing," Mr. Golub said. "There was no plan, there was nothing." The County Manager, Robert McEvoy, declined to be interviewed and the chairman of the County Legislature, Francis H. Potter, did not return three phone calls to his office requesting an interview.
"County government views itself as being a higher level of government, and they feel they should be the ones calling the shots," said Albert P. Jurczynski, the mayor of Schenectady. "Considering what has been happening to the city of Schenectady, and how little anyone was doing about it until Roger and Neil came along, I disagree. I think we should all be marching to the steps of Roger and Neil."
How far Schenectady has to march is apparent in how far it has fallen. After World War II and into the 1950's, General Electric had 35,000 employees in the city and county -- one of every two working people. Today, General Electric's downtown turbine works employs about 6,000, and another round of departures, this time for Atlanta, was announced last spring. Behind the employment vacuum, Schenectady's urban woes come flooding in.
"We had the second highest violent crime rate in 1996 in the state of New York," said Robert T. Farley, a member of the County Legislature and one of Mr. Hull's and Mr. Golub's supporters. "Our county budget is $185 million, and if you include nursing homes, social spending takes $150 million of it, and 80 percent of that goes to the city." Despite areas of affluence in nearby suburban towns like Scotia and Niskayuna, property values in Schenectady County have declined 35 percent in the last five years, Mr. Farley said.
Mr. Hull recognizes that helping Schenectady also helps Union College. "Clearly, it is in the college's interest to have the city revitalized," he said, "But the fact is that we have seven applicants for every slot, and although 60 percent of the students who turn us down turn us down because of the city, we could still survive very well the way things are."
Mr. Hull and Mr. Golub acknowledge that Schenectady has a long way to go before it even approaches its past prosperity. The stock market's recent ups and downs have made the kind of private investment needed to go with the public money harder to raise. And they worry that suburban members of the Metroplex board might have different ideas about ways to spend the $50 million in bonds.
But Mr. Golub said he believed a majority of the board would vote for his and Mr. Hull's vision of the city, and that he was no longer going to worry about opponents. "We are going to drag them kicking and screaming into the 21st century," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil M. Golub, president of Price Chopper supermarkets, left, and Roger H. Hull, the president of Union College, at a dock on the Mohawk River. Refurbishing the riverfront is one of their plans for Schenectady. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (70%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRICE CHOPPER SUPERMARKETS; UNION COLLEGE (SCHENECTADY, NY) MVP HEALTH PLAN INC (70%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); PRICE CHOPPER SUPERMARKETS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICE CHOPPER SUPERMARKETS; UNION COLLEGE (SCHENECTADY, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCHENECTADY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ATHLETES (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRAINS (69%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (66%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; GOLUB, NEIL M; HULL, ROGER MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



593 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Charles McCartney, Known for Travels With Goats, Dies at 97

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
You take a fellow who looks like a goat, travels around with goats, eats with goats, lies down among goats and smells like a goat and it won't be long before people will be calling him the Goat Man.
Which is pretty much what Charles McCartney had in mind back in the Depression when he pulled up his Iowa stakes, put on his goatskins, hitched up his ironed-wheeled goat wagon and hit the road for what turned out to be a three-decade odyssey as one of the nation's most endearing eccentrics and by far its most pungent peripatetic roadside tourist attraction. 
 It is a tribute to the indelible image he created that although he had abandoned the goat life 30 years ago and settled down in a school bus in the south Georgia town of Jeffersonville, outside Macon, when Mr. McCartney died on Nov. 15 in a Macon nursing home, he was still known as the Goat Man. He was 97, or a decade or so younger than he'd taken to claiming to be.
A man given to gross exaggeration when simple embellishment would suffice, Mr. McCartney also claimed to have visited every state except Hawaii: His goats couldn't swim that far, he explained, and if they could, they'd just end up eating the grass skirts off the hula dancers anyway.
Whatever the scope of his travels, Mr. McCartney, who averaged seven miles a day and had a regular route between Iowa and Georgia, spent most of his time creating traffic jams throughout the South, primarily along the old Dixie Highway running through Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia and Florida.
As many who grew up in the South in the 1940's, 50's and 60's could attest, when the Goat Man came to town it was an event, one that inevitably produced a story and a photograph in the local paper.
Someone would spot him and his 30 or so goats coming down the highway, his wagon piled high with interesting junk, word would get around and pretty soon parents would be driving their children out to meet him, those familiar with the drill taking the precaution of staying upwind of the Goat Man.
As Mr. McCartney, who never took a bath or washed his clothes, once boasted, nobody but his goats could stand the smell of him.
According to research by Darryl Patton and Jimmy Hammett, who collaborated on a 1993 Goat Man video and a 1994 Goat Man book, Mr. McCartney had a colorful life even before he became the Goat Man.
Growing up on a farm outside Sigourney, Iowa, he was considered such an odd child that the family goats were about his only true friends, which helps explain why he took off at 14, married a 24-year-old Spanish knife thrower, served as her exhibition target for a couple of years, then returned to Iowa and married at least twice more.
The last marriage ended when he sold his goat-weary wife for $1,000 to a farmer she'd already grown sweet on.
By then, Mr. McCartney, who had been forced to trade a farm he'd inherited to pay off a grocery bill, had begun his goat excursions, initially taking his wife and young son, Albert Gene, along on short trips and attracting so much attention that he was soon printing up postcards with his picture on them to sell to the gawkers.
Toward the end of the 1930's, he struck off on his own, beginning a series of annual circuits and soon making Jeffersonville his home base.
Although the postcards sold so well that rumors actually spread that he was rich, he found a new source of income early in his travels when he stopped off in a backwoods section of north Georgia and had what amounted to an economic epiphany. Observing that the bearded goat man was the spitting image of a figure depicted in religious paintings, some of the deeply religious residents became convinced that he was Jesus Christ and began showering him with gifts.
Mr. McCartney saw no reason to correct them, and by the time the locals, tumbling to the truth, tarred and feathered him and ran him out of town on a rail, the Goat Man had an additional calling: as an itinerant preacher.
Mr. McCartney, who eventually built a church near his school bus in Jeffersonville, admitted that his preaching was a gimmick but insisted it was sincere.
Although his preaching, his wit, his tall tales, his goats and his seeming personification of the totally free life helped make him a beloved figure to many, to others his very strangeness seemed threatening and made him a target of mindless violence, most notably in 1968 in Signal Mountain, Tenn., near Chattanooga, when he was severely beaten by thugs who also slit the throats of eight of his goats.
That was the end of his life as a goat man, but he continued to make occasional hitch-hiking forays, including a trip while in his 80's that began when he became obsessed with the actress Morgan Fairchild and ended when he was mugged in Los Angeles.
Although Mr. McCartney, who had lived in the nursing home for 11 years, spoke vaguely about having other children, he leaves no known survivors. His son, Albert Gene, who lived in the school bus in Jeffersonville, was killed there earlier this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For three decades, Charles McCartney, with his goats and his wagon of interesting junk, took to the roads between Iowa and Georgia. ("Goat Man"/JCH Entertainment) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); MAMMALS (89%); CHILDREN (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); DANCERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCCARTNEY, CHARLES; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR CHARLES ALLEN THOMAS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



594 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Ready to Shrink Arsenal of Nuclear Bombs

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Driven by budget constraints as much as diminishing security threats, Pentagon officials are quietly recommending that the Clinton Administration consider unilateral reductions in the nation's nuclear arsenal.
Since the United States has already commited itself to drastic cuts in the arsenal, the Pentagon believes that the reductions would have no effect on America's ability to deter a nuclear adversary. 
 The recommendations, if adopted, would reduce the American arsenal below the 6,000 nuclear warheads allowed by the first strategic arms reduction treaty, or Start I, senior Administration officials said.
The United States and Russia have signed a second arms treaty, Start II, that would cut their arsenals even more sharply, to 3,000 to 3,500 warheads. But for nearly six years, the Russian Parliament has refused to approve Start II.
Because of Russia's delay, and American laws blocking unilateral cuts, the Pentagon faces the prospect of paying hundreds of millions of dollars to maintain -- and soon to rebuild -- nuclear weapons that the United States has agreed to scrap.
The Pentagon has spent $95 million more during the last two years than it would have if Start II had taken effect. Next year it would cost $100 million more, and the year after, $1 billion.
The Navy, in particular, may have to pay more than $5 billion between now and 2003 to refuel nuclear reactors and install new missiles on four Trident submarines that would otherwise be dismantled.
With this budget crunch looming, the Pentagon submitted to Congress a highly classified report last April that outlined nine proposals for reducing the arsenal unilaterally.
Neither President Clinton nor Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen has made a decision on the recommendations, and a senior White House official said they would not do so until Russia's Communist-dominated Parliament completes its latest deliberations on Start II, which was signed in 1993.
Although Russia's nationalists and Communists have vehemently opposed the treaty, the lower house has begun debate and could vote as soon as December.
The Pentagon's recommendations underline the stakes: Start II's ratification would not only rid the world of thousands of nuclear warheads, but would also save the United States billions of dollars that the Pentagon would rather spend elsewhere, or that Congress could allocate to other programs.
Officials in Washington and Russia agree that prospects for ratification have improved as the realization sinks in that Russia's economic problems have left the country hard pressed to maintain a nuclear force as large as that allowed by Start I.
"I'm reluctant to discuss at all Plan B," one White House official said of the Pentagon's recommendations, "when we have the best on-course momentum here in a long, long time for Plan A."
But if the Russian Parliament again rejects the treaty, officials in the Pentagon plan to recommend that President Clinton seek permission from Congress to move ahead with unilateral reductions. The officials said a decision could come as part of the budget Mr. Clinton will submit to Congress early next year.
Adm. Richard W. Mies, the new commander of the nation's strategic arsenal, said the United States was committed to maintaining a "robust and credible force." But he suggested that this effort did not preclude unilateral cuts.
"I think you will inevitably see us take some unilateral actions that we have to take to modernize our forces and maybe streamline our forces to some degree," Admiral Mies said in an interview last week at the United States Strategic Command headquarters at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. "We're driven by our own imperatives."
Admiral Mies did not elaborate, but in recent weeks Pentagon and Administration aides have begun discussions with Congressional staff members as they draw up next year's budget and decide whether to set aside enough money for a larger nuclear force.
In each of the last two years, Republicans in Congress have put language in the Defense Department's budget bills explicitly prohibiting reductions below Start I levels by the United States alone.
Some Administration officials and members of Congress have argued that the legislation is necessary to press the Russians to ratify Start II. Others argue that unilateral reductions could revive a stagnant arms control process.
"The issue is, how much longer are we going to pay to stay at a higher level to retain some leverage over the Russians to ratify the treaty," a senior defense official said.
Under Start I, which was signed in 1991, the United States has drastically reduced its arsenal of strategic nuclear warheads, from more than 10,000 to about 7,000. In March 1997, Mr. Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin agreed that once the lower house approved Start II, the United States and Russia would begin talks on further reductions, to 2,000 to 2,500 warheads.
Political pressures for slashing the number of warheads have begun to grow here. In a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York last week, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, a Democrat, called on the Administration to make unilateral reductions and take other steps that would reassure Russia, including removing remaining warheads from the highest state of alert.
Mr. Kerrey said he would seek to repeal the Congressional limits on further reductions, arguing that among other things, the higher levels of weapons sapped money from efforts to combat "newer threats" like terrorism and ethnic wars.
"Our old policies of arms control and deterrence no long work and may be increasing the danger," he said, "both by making nuclear threats worse and by diverting money and resources away from the conventional forces that are the key to our safety in the post-cold-war world."
In its budgets, the Pentagon has already anticipated reducing the arsenal to Start II levels over the next several years. Likewise, strategists have concluded that a nuclear force as small as that planned under Start III, which has not yet been negotiated, can adequately defend the United States, making spending on anything more seem wasteful.
Administration officials declined to spell out the proposals under consideration should the Russian Parliament fail to ratify Start II. But one senior military official said some options would allow the Pentagon to reduce the number of warheads to 5,000 to 6,000 and reduce or eliminate some categories of weapons.
Under these plans, the Navy would move ahead with its current plan to reduce its fleet of 18 Trident submarines by retiring the four oldest by 2003. The Air Force would be able to reduce or eliminate the stockpile of 50 intercontinental ballistic missiles that it is now financing in its budget year to year.
In both cases, Congress has prohibited reductions in those forces. The senior military official called the money spent on updating those forces as "rat hole dollars."
"We don't necessarily feel we should be locked into a certain force structure," the official said. "We want to have flexibility."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); APPROVALS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



595 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Drawing Board in Coney Island

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Brooklyn sports enthusiasts -- not to mention economic development proponents -- were overjoyed when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced in September that the Mets would bring a minor league baseball club to Coney Island. Then they noticed what was missing and were horrified.
The Mayor's map showed a new stadium and a large parking lot totally occupying the old Steeplechase Park, once the most famous amusement area in Coney Island, between 16th and 20th Streets and between Surf Avenue and the Boardwalk. 
 Sportsplex, a 12,300-seat amateur athletic center for which Brooklynites have campaigned for more than a decade, was nowhere to be seen. Also missing from the map was a much-ballyhooed entertainment complex that would have brought movies and virtual reality parlors to the self-proclaimed birthplace of hot dogs and roller coasters.
"I wasn't happy," said Peter Kiernan, chairman of the Brooklyn Sports Foundation, the parent of Sportsplex. "It made Sportsplex an orphan, and it didn't do anything for Coney Island."
Coney Island residents had been pinning their hopes on Sportsplex and related development around that proposed complex as a way to revive their still-tattered community. The amusement area has shrunk to 3 blocks from 20 blocks in the 1940's.
Many residents were still clingingto a visit by a Disney Company scout a year ago, speaking wistfully of the entire area becoming something of a theme park.
Some public money had finally come Coney Island's way. After difficult negotiations, the state, city and borough had come up with money for the Sportsplex project, with $30 million each from the state and the city, and $7 million from the borough of Brooklyn. In addition to a large arena, Sportsplex would also include a 2,000-seat gymnasium, a boxing gym and a sports medicine center.
Meanwhile, a $200 million renovation of the Stillwell Avenue subway station has been scheduled, and the neighborhood's sewer system is being rebuilt.
Faced with the minor league baseball proposal, the sports foundation responded by preparing a new plan that would include both the ball park and Sportsplex. "What we did was go back to the drawing board," said Tom Fox, a foundation board member. The plan envisions covering the entire 11.7-acre park with a 14-foot-high reinforced concrete platform that would be level with the elevated Boardwalk. Parking for 1,200 cars would be under the Boardwalk.
There would be room for a 6,500-seat ball park, Sportsplex, an existing hockey arena, the Parachute Jump, and stores along Surf Avenue. There would be broad views of the sea from a plaza that might include statues of Brooklyn sports heroes.
City and state officials like the plan, at least tentatively. Colleen Roche, the Mayor's spokeswoman, said it could be used as a basis for building both the stadium and Sportsplex on the site.
The new scheme would add $5 million to $6 million to the cost, an amount Mr. Kiernan said the foundation has pledged to raise privately. One possibility is giving a corporation the right to name and market the complex, something that Mr. Kiernan said could generate $500,000 annually.
Mr. Kiernan said it must be decided whether the foundation will be allowed to act as developer, or whether the complex will be built by a government agency. Charles Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said he thinks a lead agency must be named to quickly steer the project through environmental and land use reviews..
But even the new plan leaves little room for the proposed entertainment complex, which was expected to bring a private investment of $100 million to the long-struggling amusement area. The entertainment center would have been built on the east side of the property, where vines cover the remains of the Thunderbolt roller coaster, and on private property across West 16th Street. But property remains available across all three streets abutting the project, and below-surface parking would free nearby vacant lots for other businesses.
Customers of stores could use the parking, Mr. Kiernan said, and there would be little competition for parking between baseball fans and visitors to Sportsplex, which would be geared to high school athletics and winter events like professional wrestling and basketball exhibitions.
The entertainment complex idea was originally studied by developer Bruce Ratner, who was interested in investing in it. His company, Forest City Ratner, has not yet studied the new plan. "They're still very interested in being part of it," said Joyce Baumgarten, a company spokeswoman.
Proponents of Sportsplex feared it had been pushed aside or simply forgotten while the city concentrated on the Yankees and the Mets. In addition to improved stadiums for their Major League clubs, both teams want new stadiums for minor league clubs at a cost to the city of $20 million each. The Yankees want to put a team on Staten Island. The Mets want to move a Class A team from Pittsfield, Mass., to Coney Island.
A step forward came Thursday when a city committee gave the Mets the sole authority to negotiate with the city for the Coney Island site. The Yankees still have to approve the Mets' plan, which is their right under Major League Baseball bylaws.
But another problem is a growing sentiment in Brooklyn -- which has had a chip on its shoulder since the Dodgers deserted Ebbets Field -- that the borough deserves a higher caliber club than a Class A team. Borough President Howard Golden cast the only vote against the Mets at the franchise committee meeting partly for this reason. He questioned the team's commitment to bringing baseball fans to Brooklyn.
"The first priority of the Mets will always be to fill Shea Stadium," he said, "whereas an independent team's priority would be to create a successful and viable franchise if selected to come to Brooklyn."
But Mr. Kiernan said that Fred Wilpon, the Mets owner, had been sympathetic to Sportsplex in private talks. He said that Mr. Wilpon attended nearby Lafayette High School, and that a picture in the Bensonhurst Jewish Center shows him and Sandy Koufax in a basketball team photo.

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn highlighting Coney Island: Plans for the old Steeplechase Park in Coney Island include a 6,500-seat ball park as well as an athletic complex and stores along Surf Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN SPORTS FOUNDATION WALT DISNEY CO (54%); NEW YORK METS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN SPORTS FOUNDATION NEW YORK METS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CONEY ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; MINOR LEAGUES; STADIUMS; BASEBALL; AMUSEMENT PARKS BASEBALL (91%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); SPORTS MEDICINE (70%); VIRTUAL REALITY (69%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; KIERNAN, PETER D 3D RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



596 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Iraq in New Defiance Over Arms Inspections
Iraq signaled in a series of defiant statements that it has little intention of cooperating with international arms inspectors and remained on a collision course with the United States. Iraq's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf, rebuffed a United Nations demand for more documents on his country's arms program. The United States and Britain have warned that only full cooperation will avert an attack. A1
 
Pentagon Proposes Cuts
Pentagon officials are quietly recommending that the Administration consider unilateral reductions in the nation's nuclear arsenal. The recommendations are driven by budget constraints as much as diminishing security threats and, if adopted, would reduce the American arsenal below the 6,000 nuclear warheads allowed by the first strategic arms reduction treaty, or Start I, Administration officials said. A1
 
Six Killed in Indonesia
A gang fight between Muslims and Christian migrants erupted into fierce rioting in Jakarta. Officials reported that six people were killed and nearly a dozen churches burned or damaged. While not related to the demonstrations and military gunfire that have kept the city on edge for more than a week, the rioting was a sharp reminder of the potential for violence as Indonesia suffers political and economic turmoil. A4
 
Clinton Visits Troops in Korea
President Clinton visited American troops stationed in South Korea and continued to warn of the threat to regional peace posed by North Korea. In a speech, Mr. Clinton pointed to recent North Korean missile tests, incursions into the South and a mysterious underground site that may be a nuclear weapons installation. But he praised South Korean President Kim Dae Jung's policy of engagement with North Korea. A10
 
Jiang Visits Neighbors
President Jiang Zemin left China for visits to Russia, where he is to meet with the ailing President, Boris N. Yeltsin, and to Japan, for the first visit by a Chinese Communist head of state. Mr. Jiang's visit to Russia is the latest of several summit meetings between the neighbors, who appear determined to foster friendly ties despite a history of feuding. A4
 
Austria to Return Nazi Art
Austria expects to return some of the hundreds of artworks seized by the Nazis to their owners by late December. The Austrian Parliament has just given final approval to a law permitting restitution of such works. The law covers paintings, furniture and other artifacts held by the Austrian Government. A6
 
Peace Talks in Mexico
Mediators from the Mexican Congress and top leaders of the Zapatista rebels managed to salvage some semblance of peace talks, but only barely, after exchanging angry invective for two days. A8
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
White House Signals Willingness to Compromise
The Clinton Administration signaled that it was open to any "serious and reasonable" compromise that would allow the President to put the year-long Lewinsky scandal behind him, as the House moves quickly toward a series of critical decisions on whether to impeach Mr. Clinton. A1
 
Reviewing Tape of Kevorkian
A Michigan prosecutor said he would carefully review a videotape of Dr. Jack Kevorkian injecting a terminally ill man with a lethal series of drugs and other evidence before deciding whether to prosecute him. The tape was shown last night on the CBS News program "60 Minutes." A12
 
Front-Loading in Election 2000
Presidential primaries and caucuses in Election 2000 are likely to be more front-loaded than ever, despite talk about spreading them out. Thus far, about three dozen states plan to hold their caucuses and primaries by the end of March or are seriously thinking about it. A12
 
Uncensored TV for Russia
A communications satellite that will beam the first uncensored television programs into western Russia and Siberia headed into orbit around the Earth atop an unmanned Delta 2 rocket. Boeing launched the satellite for Hughes Space and Communications, which built it for a private media group in Moscow. A15
 
Crime Rate Continues to Drop
The nation's murder rate reached its lowest level in 30 years as serious crimes reported to the police in 1997 declined for a sixth consecutive year, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said. Final F.B.I. figures for 1997 showed a 2 percent drop from 1996 in the number of major crimes reported across the nation. A16
 
Heidi Fleiss to a Halfway House
Heidi Fleiss, who provided prostitutes to the rich and famous, has been transferred from a Federal prison in Northern California to a halfway house at an undisclosed location. Ms. Fleiss, 32, had spent 20 months in prison for conspiracy, tax evasion and laundering money from her call-girl operation. As part of a plea bargain, she also was serving a concurrent state sentence of 18 months for attempted pandering. She will be released in six months from the halfway house, which she entered last week, if she completes her time without breaking any supervised custody rules. (AP)
 
Protest at Fort Benning
About 2,000 people, including the actor Martin Sheen, were briefly taken into custody yesterday in a protest at the Army's School of the Americas in Georgia, which critics say has trained soldiers involved in atrocities in Latin America. Demonstrators who entered Fort Benning were loaded onto buses, driven to a park about a mile away and released. (AP)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
G.O.P. Ballot Tactics Are Assailed by Democrats
As the final ballots are being counted in the tight race for state attorney general, Democratic leaders are charging that the campaign of Dennis C. Vacco, the Republican incumbent, has mounted a concerted effort to invalidate paper ballots in black and Hispanic areas. B1
 
Yankee Boss to Stay the Boss
George M. Steinbrenner 3d continued to deny that he had reached agreement or was close to an agreement to sell a majority share of the Yankees to Cablevision. But he made it clear that he and his family would retain control of the team if he should sell, and he said it was possible he might wind up running the Knicks and Rangers, too. B1
 
Reviving Livingston Legacy
The Livingston family of New York State has returned to prominence, thanks to Representative Robert Linlithgow Livingston, the Louisiana Republican who is poised to become the next Speaker of the House of Representatives. From the late 17th century to the early 19th century, they were one of America's most aristocratic families, lording over the Hudson River Valley and owning more land than Rhode Island has. B1
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Return of 'Star Wars'
"Star Wars: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace," the first "Star Wars" film since the release of "Return of the Jedi" 15 years ago, opens on May 21, but the anticipation for it is said to be extraordinary. E1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
Jets Win, 24-3
The Jets had three second-half touchdowns in defeating Tennessee. D1
 
OBITUARIES B7-8
 
Edwige Feuillere
A much-loved French actress whose 60-year career took her from sensual screen beauty to grande dame of the Paris theater, she was 91. B7
 
Charles McCartney
A man who pulled up his Iowa stakes, put on his goatskins, hitched up his ironed-wheeled goat wagon and hit the road for what turned out to be a three-decade odyssey as one of the nation's most endearing eccentrics, he was 97. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-12
 
AOL in Talks to Buy Netscape
America Online is on the verge of a deal to purchase Netscape Communications, the Internet pioneer at the center of the Government's antitrust suit against Microsoft, executives involved in the talks said. The purchase is valued at roughly $4 billion. The complex deal would also involve Sun Microsystems. A1
 
Testing a Navigational System
An improved navigational system for airplanes that is based on the Global Positioning System, a halo of two dozen satellites, is nearing completion. An American missile attack on Iraq, should tensions escalate to that level, could provide a clue as to how well the satellite-based technology meets the aviation industry's extraordinary need for reliability. C1
 
Duke to Buy Gas Business
Duke Energy said it would buy the United States natural gas gathering, processing and marketing business of Union Pacific Resources for $1.35 billion, making Duke one of the largest companies gathering and selling natural gas. C5
 
Softnet Plans Acquisition
Softnet Systems, a small company in Mountain View, Calif., intends to announce an agreement today to buy Intelligent Communications, a private concern in Fremont, Calif., for about $10.5 million in stock, executives close to the companies said. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Pay days in Albany; death of a Russian democrat; Marie Curie and a century of radiation; Gail Collins on women in politics.
Columns: William Safire
 
Bridge E7
Metro. Diary B2
Crossword E7
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDONESIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDONESIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); SHOOTINGS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); PAINTING (65%); GANGS (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



597 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: NETSCAPE BID SEEN BY AMERICA ONLINE

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR and JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
America Online Inc. is on the verge of agreeing to purchase the Netscape Communications Corporation, the Internet pioneer at the center of the Government's antitrust suit against the Microsoft Corporation, executives involved in the talks said yesterday.
The proposed deal is a complex, three-way transaction involving America Online, Netscape and Sun Microsystems Inc. America Online, the leading on-line service with more than 14 million subscribers, would acquire Netscape's popular site on the World Wide Web and its software business. America Online would also enter into a joint marketing and development partnership with Sun Microsystems to strengthen Netscape's other business of selling to large corporations the heavy-duty software needed to serve up Web pages and other Internet technologies to thousands of users at the same time. 
 The purchase, an exchange of America Online shares for Netscape stock, is valued at roughly $4 billion. A completed deal could be announced as soon as this morning. But executives involved in the talks cautioned last night that some details remained to be negotiated.
The Netscape deal, if consummated, would realign three businesses at the forefront of the modern economy -- on-line services, Internet software and electronic commerce. It would strengthen two of Microsoft's leading rivals, America Online and Sun Microsystems. At the same time, however, it would end the independent existence of Netscape, an Internet software maker once regarded as the most serious challenger to Microsoft's dominance of the personal computer software market.
Netscape, founded in 1994, has struggled over the last 18 months under an assault from Microsoft. Its Navigator was the runaway leader in the market for the browser software used to find and view pages on the World Wide Web. Browsing software opened the Internet, which had been the bailiwick of researchers, to anyone with a computer and a modem.
But Microsoft, responding to the Internet revolution, entered the market aggressively, bundling the Microsoft browser, Internet Explorer, into its industry-standard Windows operating system and giving it away free. Eventually, Microsoft's browser technology caught up to Netscape's.
Earlier this year, Netscape announced layoffs and started distributing Navigator for free as well, as Microsoft steadily gained in the browser market. Since then, Netscape has focused mainly on two businesses -- advertising and transaction fees from its Netcenter Web site and selling industrial-strength software to corporations that are building their own Internet sites on which to conduct electronic commerce.
America Online, the leading on-line media company, believes it has the expertise to increase revenues from Netscape's Web site and, helped by Sun's programmers and vast corporate sales force, to accelerate Netscape's software sales, executives involved in the negotiations said.
Among large corporations, Sun's version of the Unix operating system, Solaris, is one of the most popular for the powerful computers that run Netscape's server software.
The much smaller Netscape would be placed under the wing of America Online and Sun. The three companies had combined revenues of more than $12.4 billion last year. Microsoft, by comparison, had revenues of more than $14 billion.
"This deal would insure that the fundamental elements of Netscape survive within bigger companies that can drive its technologies forward," said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard business school and co-author with Michael A. Cusumano of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology of a recent book, "Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and Its Battle with Microsoft."
In the short run, at least, subscribers to America Online will see little if any change in the service they receive.
The impact of the deal, if any, on the Government's antitrust suit against Microsoft is uncertain. It does appear to support a key theme of Microsoft's defense -- namely, that it operates in a fast-moving industry where corporate alliances shift all the time. Thus, Microsoft argues, antitrust policy should tread gently in this dynamic arena.
But the deal, Government officials insist, should have no direct effect on the current case.
"No matter how much the alliances shift, it doesn't affect the central fact of Microsoft's monopoly and how it has used and abused its market power to protect its monopoly," said David Boies, the Justice Department's lead trial lawyer in the Microsoft case.
Executives representing Netscape, America Online and Sun are Government witnesses at the Microsoft trial. And the serious merger talks between James L. Barksdale, the chief executive of Netscape, and Stephen M. Case, the chairman of America Online, began about a month ago, or just after the start of the Microsoft trial, according to people close to the talks.
Industry analysts suggest that the companies may have been emboldened to take stronger anti-Microsoft steps based partly on the perception that the antitrust case would weaken Microsoft. And representatives of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm regarded as a power broker among Microsoft's rivals, sit on the boards of Netscape, Sun and America Online.
Still, executives involved in the talks said that the timing of the proposed deal was unrelated to the antitrust trial. Nor should it, one person noted, be regarded as "a single-minded attempt to circle the wagons against Microsoft."
Indeed, America Online, according to one person close to the talks, plans to keep Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser as the default choice on its on-line service. One of the Government's allegations in the antitrust suit is that Microsoft won out over Netscape as the main browser for America Online because Microsoft used its Windows monopoly as a bargaining chip. To win the browser deal, Microsoft offered America Online prime real estate on the Windows desktop, the main screen on more than 90 percent of personal computers sold today.
Staying with Microsoft's browser can be seen as proof that America Online still regards placement on the Windows desktop as crucial, as well as a careful step to avoid undermining one of the allegations in the Government's case.
For America Online, the Netscape purchase would accelerate its evolution toward the Internet. At present, its flagship on-line service is a hybrid -- to its own proprietary service, it has added a gateway to the World Wide Web. In addition, for consumers who do not subscribe to America Online's dial-up service, it also has its own Web site, aol.com, which attracts about 24 million visitors a month, according to Media Metrix/ Relevant Knowledge, a market research firm.
Its big Web site offers a wide range of information, entertainment, Internet chat and E-mail, a leading example of the all-in-one sites that have become known as portals. Netscape's Netcenter traffic has slipped a bit in recent months, to under 16 million visitors a month, but it, too, is a major portal. Together, they should be a huge player in the intensifying portal battle for viewers and resulting advertising revenues. Yahoo is the current leader among portal sites with more than 25 million monthly visitors, while Microsoft's site attracts more than 20 million a month.
With the deal, analysts say, America Online is moving to add a blue-chip Internet brand -- Netscape -- to its portfolio and add to its already sizable on-line audiences. Though known as a new-media company for consumers, America Online is also interested in boosting its electronic commerce business with the Netscape purchase. America Online has recently done work with Eastman Kodak, American Greetings and other companies, not only promoting their products to on-line subscribers but also building the Internet infrastructure of software to conduct electronic commerce.
America Online notes projections like a recent one from Forrester Research Inc., which predicted that worldwide Internet commerce could reach as high as $3.2 trillion by 2003, or 5 percent of global sales.
Sun, analysts say, could be a strong partner for America Online in the market for Internet commerce software. Sun is a corporate software company with a sales force of several thousand. As it moves increasingly to Internet technology, America Online should prove an excellent partner for Sun in terms of developing and using Sun's Java, an Internet programming language. And while Netscape's browser no longer generates revenue on its own, it is a distribution channel for Java technology. Having Netscape's browser safely in the hands of a friendly company is of strategic importance for Sun, since Microsoft owns the alternative in the browser market.
America Online is expected pay little, if any, premium over Netscape's stock price on Friday, executives close to the deal said, since Netscape shares have more than doubled in the last month. In the last week alone, Netscape's stock has jumped about $12, or nearly 45 percent, following reports that it was discussing a possible partnership with America Online. The stock closed Friday at $39.1875, up $2.625. America Online's shares gained $1.50 Friday, closing at $84.875.

GRAPHIC: Table: "AT A GLANCE -- America Online and Netscape"

	America Online	Netscape	Headquarters	Dulles, Va.	Mountain View, Calif.	Chief executive	Stephen M. Case	James L. Barksdale	Employees	8,500	2,310	Revenue	$2.6 billion *	$553.85 million **	Net income or (loss)	$92 million	($115.5 million)**	Friday's closing stock price	$84.875	$39.1875	
 
*1998 fiscal year ended in June
**1997 fiscal year ended in December
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE INC AOL INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (94%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; MICROSOFT CORP; AMERICA ONLINE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS INTERNET & WWW (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); WEB SITES (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); SALES & SELLING (74%); MODEMS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (70%); SALES FORCE (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); LAYOFFS (61%); SALES MANAGEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; MARKOFF, JOHN STEVE CASE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



598 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Scope of Smuggling Ring Stuns an Enclave

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Nov. 22

 BODY:
On a crisp November Sunday, Oak Tree Road here was the picture of a thriving South Asian immigrant enclave. The windows of gold jewelers sparkled with 22-karat necklaces. Shoppers went in and out of the markets, arms loaded with sacks of vegetables and spices from home.
But today, just under the sunny surface was a palpable sense of anxiety. 
 By indicting 31 people worldwide last week, in an international smuggling operation that brought thousands of illegal immigrant workers from the Indian subcontinent, Federal law enforcement officials struck at a ring that brought in a constant supply of cheap, often illegal, labor. The supply from that ring, merchants in Iselin say, helps drive this thriving ethnic enclave.
Today, just days after an unpleasant secret in their community had been exposed, business owners up and down Oak Tree Road expressed fear about the prospect of immigration raids and increased scrutiny by Federal authorities. Several merchants said they were aware of businesses along the strip that relied on illegal immigrant help.
None of the merchants along Oak Tree Road would allow their names to be used. But they said they worried that the arrests in connection with the smuggling ring -- which Federal agents say was headed by a man based in the Bahamas named Nitin Shettie, also known as Nick Diaz -- would lead its members to report on other smugglers and the business owners who rely on them to bring in workers. "You can call it jealousy," said a shopkeeper, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, "or you can call it competition."
The owner of one restaurant here said today that the New Jersey men who were indicted last week were known smugglers, but that their organization was only one of many that shopkeepers could turn to if they needed extra workers.
Four months ago, the merchants pointed out, two of Iselin's most prominent shop owners were arrested on charges of immigrant smuggling and money laundering.
The ring uncovered last week came to the attention of immigration authorities several months ago when one of the deals went awry, according to a lawyer representing two of the smuggled immigrants.
The lawyer, Suresh Dalal of Woodbridge, N.J., said that five illegal immigrants were arrested by immigration authorities in Miami on their way from the Bahamas to New Jersey. Their smugglers bailed them out at $5,000 apiece, and, once the immigrants were in New Jersey, tacked the penalty onto their $20,000 smuggling fee. Mr. Dalal said the financial dispute that followed ultimately led one of the illegal immigrants to tip off the Federal authorities.
Mr. Dalal, who represents two men from the western Indian state of Gujarat, said his clients had been flown to the Bahamas, where they boarded a ship to Miami with more than 20 others from the subcontinent. They were taken to a house in Jersey City, where they stayed for a day or two until a friend or an employer paid the smuggling fees.
Most of them, he said, found work at Indian shops in New Jersey.
Federal officials involved in the investigation said they were approached a year ago by an immigrant in Dallas who detailed the smuggling operation. Several investigations then appeared to coalesce, immigration agents in Dallas said.
On Friday, officials with the United States Attorney's Offices in Texas and New Jersey unsealed indictments in what Federal authorities described as the largest immigrant smuggling ring ever uncovered in the United States. Of those indicted, 10 are still at large, according to the United States Attorney's office.
Neither the smuggling patterns nor its routes are new.
At least since the 1980's, illegal immigrants from India, Bangladesh and Pakistan have flown first to Europe, which is usually easier than going directly to the United States. From there, they have traveled to Latin America or the Caribbean, and either walked across the Mexican border or sailed near Miami, sometimes swimming to shore.
For years, they have put themselves in the hands of smugglers who, for a hefty fee, acted as their travel agents. And they have been easily absorbed in the thriving enclave economy.
What made this smuggling operation stand out, immigration officials said, was the vast number of employers who had tapped into it in search of workers. Mr. Bergeron said most other smuggling rings are connected to only a few employers.
In New Jersey's Indian community, it was the scope of the ring that came as a surprise. In three years, Federal officials said, it smuggled into the United States as many as 12,000 illegal immigrants, mostly from India, but also from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Syria.
"I've seen nothing like this, nothing of this magnitude," said Rohit Vyas, the news director of TV Asia, a cable station catering to the area's South Asians. "I think the community better start looking at itself a little more closely."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last week's indictments in an immigrant smuggling case have worried many South Asian merchants along Oak Tree Road in Iselin, N.J. They expressed fears about the prospect of more scrutiny by the authorities. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); BAHAMAS (93%); ASIA (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; ISELIN (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); BAHAMAS (93%); ASIA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SMUGGLING IMMIGRATION (94%); SMUGGLING (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); JEWELRY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ARRESTS (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI SURESH DALAL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



599 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: Vote in Quebec May Be Last Fling With Secession

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: JONQUIERE, Quebec

 BODY:
Both men left the confines of Quebec for federal politics years ago. Both served in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Both later switched parties and both have come home to fight for the future of Canada's French-speaking province.
But whatever similarities once existed between them have faded. Lucien Bouchard, the Premier of Quebec, and Jean Charest, the leader of the province's Liberal Party, are now locked in a do-or-die election that on Nov. 30 will decide, to a large extent, whether Quebec's long flirtation with secession will succeed at last. 
 Mr. Bouchard has promised that if his Parti Quebecois is re-elected he will hold a third referendum on separation, probably by 2001. The last referendum, in 1995, fell just 50,000 votes short of authorizing Quebec to negotiate its way out of Canada.
Mr. Charest says there will be no referendum if he is Premier. Many political analysts say that could take away the separatists' last opportunity to win, because passion for independence is waning. The province's continuing exodus of English-speakers is largely offset by the declining local birth rate, and the large influx of immigrants tends to vote against secession.
"If Quebec hasn't solved this problem" in the next few years, said Alain Dubuc, chief editorial writer for La Presse, a Montreal daily newspaper, "completely different rules will apply."
Mr. Bouchard, 59, is a passionate separatist. He is a sometimes hotheaded Francophone as independent as is Jonquiere, the rugged area on the fierce Saguenay River that Quebecers proudly consider their frontier.
It is a place of oversized dimensions -- of huge aluminum smelters, prodigious paper mills and uncontainable ambition for Quebec independence -- all reflected in the fiery character of Mr. Bouchard. He is determined to carry Quebec to what he sees as its destiny as an independent, French-speaking nation in North America.
Mr. Charest, 40, is a curly-haired federalist who is as comfortably bilingual as is Sherbrooke, his home in the Eastern Townships near the United States border.
It is a place where English- and French-speaking families have long lived side by side, a place so accommodating that English street signs include French footnotes, like Rue Wellington, "General Britannique, 1769-1852."
Mr. Charest was leader of the federal Progressive Conservative Party before being drafted by supporters to take on Mr. Bouchard and vanquish the separatist threat. He has staked his promising political career on the crusade to keep Quebec in Canada.
If Quebec should vote for secession, a complicated series of negotiations would follow to settle questions like the province's share of the national debt and compensation for federal properties. There would also be a bitter fight over what to do with areas of the province that do not want to leave Canada, particularly northern lands that are home to Cree Indians who have voted overwhelmingly against separation.
So far opinion polls have the Liberals and the Parti Quebecois running just about neck and neck, with the separatists recently pulling slightly ahead.
Under Quebec's parliamentary system, Mr. Bouchard and Mr. Charest run in their local districts, but as party leader either automatically becomes Premier if his party gains a majority. English-speaking Quebecers are bunched in Montreal and the Eastern Townships.
If current trends continue, the Liberals will not win the majority of legislative seats that they need to form the next government.
Jean-Marc Leger, president of Leger & Leger, a Montreal polling company, said a Charest victory would turn demographics against the separatists. But he expects Mr. Bouchard to win, and he said the margin of victory would affect the timetable for a referendum.
"If Bouchard gets 45, 46 percent of the vote, I'm not sure he would try a referendum," Mr. Leger said. "But if he gets 48, 49 percent, he would hold one for sure. If he gets more than 50 percent, and it's possible, he will have a refendum within six months."
Mr. Charest concedes nothing.
"This is a campaign, period," he said. "We're in a battle, period. And in the best sense of the word, it's democracy at work, and we are going to win."
Mr. Bouchard, bolstered by the polls, has assumed an air of confidence. "The only true solution for Quebec," he said, "is Quebec sovereignty."
The disparate outlooks of these two Quebecers can best be understood by looking at the places they call home. They came from opposite ends of Quebec, where history has shaped destiny and character is formed by memory.
The Saguenay region where Mr. Bouchard was reared is in the distant northern hills. Mr. Bouchard, who until he was 46 never saw any other part of Canada except the next-door province of Ontario, is typical of many people here for whom Quebec is already a nation.
"There is an excess of pride in this area, and it's a mixed blessing," said Rejeanne Gilbert of Jonquiere, who was having her hair styled at the Coiffures Signature salon on Rue St. Dominique, which is awash with small shops and countless beauty parlors. "That pride is why we have the kind of politics we have here, and why there are so many hairdressers."
Jonquiere is an unassuming town of 56,000, with an average income of $15,300 and 11.7 percent unemployment, higher than the 8.3 percent national average. Like Mrs. Gilbert, most here speak only French. People are used to good jobs in big companies like Alcan Aluminum, which receives subsidized electricity from Quebec's hydroelectric plants.
Lynda Dufour, owner of Coiffures Signature, called the Saguenay socially and culturally cut off not just from the rest of Canada, but also the rest of Quebec. "If you come from the Saguenay, people in the rest of Quebec think you are from so far away that you still have feathers on your head," she said.
This is often called the cradle of the separatist movement, which emerged in the 1960's.
Mr. Bouchard, who speaks English with a French accent and is married to an American, is also the leader of a government that has had to reduce a crushing deficit by cutting education and health services that Quebecers take for granted. He has closed many hospitals, and services at the one in Jonquiere were scheduled to be severely cut back.
But when he returned to Jonquiere earlier this month for his formal nomination, doctors threatened to resign if the cuts went through. Mr. Bouchard offered them enough money to call off the threat, but that angered other communities that saw it as favoritism.
There have been other embarrassing moments for Mr. Bouchard, including the disclosure of a study showing that government cuts had caused poor and mentally ill patients to go without medication.
So far, though, the revelations do not seem to have hurt Mr. Bouchard. He is the most popular and respected politican in French-speaking Quebec. In 1994 he was hospitalized with a flesh-eating infection, to which he eventually lost a leg. He came out of the hospital to lead separatist forces in the 1995 referendum, and when the Premier at the time resigned, he took over.
"Bouchard is a man of pride and honor," said Mario Arcette, 21, a nurse in Jonquiere. "And he wants Quebec to be like himself, proud and honorable."
Pride and honor persist in the Eastern Townships as well, but it is the pride of coexistence and the honor of accepting differences. The area was settled by Loyalist families who fled the United States during and after the Revolutionary War. They were encouraged to live where they could most easily defend Canada from invasion. Though not without some tensions, English and French have long lived side by side.
Many people in Sherbrooke are fluently bilingual, like Nicole Girard. "If you are bilingual you tend not to be as extreme," she said one morning at a local cafe. "You don't have as much prejudice, and you can understand the other side a little better."
Sherbrooke is the biggest city in the Eastern Townships, so named because they lie east of the St. Lawrence River. It is a city of 76,700 residents, with an average income of $14,400 and 11 percent unemployment.
Separatists do not find much support here. Mr. Charest's own family is a model of coexistence, with an Irish mother and a French-speaking father who was a local businessman and political leader. The candidate married a local girl and is fluent in French and English.
"If you live here you believe the two communities can live together with respect and humanity," said Paul Milliard, assistant director of the local Charest campaign. "And Jean Charest is proof of that."
Mr. Charest and Mr. Bouchard are known to dislike each other, a disaffection that dates back to their days together in the Mulroney Cabinet. In his campaign, Mr. Charest has accused Mr. Bouchard of recklessly pursuing another referendum even though opinion polls show that Quebecers overwhelmingly oppose it.
Mr. Bouchard has responded with a politically ambiguous promise to hold another referendum -- the priority issue in his party's platform -- only when winning conditions exist. That essentially allows him to keep the separation option open.
Mr. Charest has alienated some Quebecers by ruling out a referendum entirely, thus surrendering Quebec's leverage with Ottawa. And the Parti Quebcois continues to portray him as an outsider from Ottawa.
 In the campaign's only debate, on Tuesday night, Mr. Charest testily defended his credentials as a local boy. "A Quebecer from Sherbrooke is no less a Quebecer than someone from Jonquiere," he said.
While the rest of Canada considers this a crucial election, even the staunchest Quebec separatists concede that some passion has gone out of the secession movement. That was evident at Nephtys Tattos on Rue Wellington in Sherbrooke, where Aline Duquette is manager. On her forearm Ms. Duquette, 35, bears a fleur-de-lis -- the very symbol of Quebec independence.
"Very few young people take the fleur-de-lis nowadays," Ms. Duquette said. "They don't like to represent themselves that way anymore."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the election in Quebec on Nov. 30 referred to operations of the Alcan Aluminium company incorrectly. The company does not receive subsidized electricity from Quebec's hydroelectric plants.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Premier of Quebec, Pierre Bouchard, left, supports secession from Canada. he debated his election opponent, Jean Charest, last Tuesday. (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 
Map of Canada shows location of Quebec: Jonquiere is in the Saguenay region, where secession is popular. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (99%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); ; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (99%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; REFERENDUMS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (92%); POLITICS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); REFUGEES (72%); WRITERS (65%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (63%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (63%); PAPER MILLS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CHAREST, JEAN; BOUCHARD, LUCIEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998



600 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL HEALTH;
Drunk on Liquid Candy, U.S. Overdoses on Sugar

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
If you're looking for a growth market to invest in during these economically volatile times, try the soft drink industry. Consumption of what the Center for Science in the Public Interest calls "liquid candy" in a new report has outpaced that of every other beverage, with per capita consumption of soft drinks by Americans doubling in the last quarter century and increasing by 43 percent since 1985.
Neither coffee, milk, beer nor bottled water comes anywhere near the 53 gallons of soda downed by the average American in a year. And, as Coca-Cola, which sells a billion soft drinks daily, stated in its last annual report, "We're just getting started." 
 Then again, if you're looking for a reason for the growth -- outward, not upward -- of Americans in recent decades, you need not go much further than soft drinks and other increasingly popular sources of added sugars.
Since the mid-1960's, the average American has increased his or her annual intake of added sugars by about 24 pounds, for a grand total of 152 pounds a year, even as artificial sweeteners were rising in popularity.
That's a whopping 760 calories a day of added sugars that are expanding American waistlines and crowding out far more nutritious and less calorically dense foods that also help to prevent heart disease, cancer, diabetes, hypertension and osteoporosis.
To make matters worse, there is growing evidence that the overly sweetened American diet is contributing directly to such health problems as heart disease and diabetes.
 
Sweet Sources
You say you don't use sugar? Think again. Only about a quarter of the sugar Americans consume is added by the consumer. More than two-thirds comes from factory-made foods, snacks and drinks. According to the latest Government food consumption survey, soft drinks now account for one-third of the caloric sweeteners we consume, sweets and sugars account for 16 percent, sweetened grain-based foods (cookies, cake, pastries, etc.) for 13 percent and fruit drinks nearly 10 percent, with breakfast cereals and other grains, milk products (ice cream, yogurt, etc.), vegetables and fruits and fruit juices making up the remainder.
Nutrition experts say the situation has become much more serious in recent years as Americans have switched to low-fat and fat-free foods as a means of girth control. This approach, notes Bonnie Liebman, nutritionist for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington-based consumer organization, has backfired because too many people assumed that if a food was fat-free, it was also low in calories and could be consumed with abandon. They forgot that something had to take the place of flavorful fat, and more often than not, that something was sugar that brought the caloric value of the fat-free food near to that of its full-fat counterpart. My own brother gained 15 pounds when Entenmann's introduced fat-free cakes and cookies, prompting him to eat three servings instead of one.
Keeping in mind that each gram of sugar supplies the body with four readily assimilated calories, note how many grams of sugar there are in the following popular foods: 12 ounces of Coke Classic, 40; a 3-ounce Mrs. Fields Double Fudge Brownie, 47; a 2.1-ounce Three Musketeers bar, 40; 1 cup of Snapple Pink Lemonade, 27, and one 7.5-ounce slice of Cheesecake Factory Lite Cheesecake, 52. Dairy-based foods, which include the sugar naturally in milk, break the sugar barrier with 64 sweet grams in 1 cup of Ben & Jerry's Low Fat Blond Brownie Sundae ice cream; 75 grams in a 9-ounce McDonald's McFlurry, and 131 grams in a 20-ounce Dairy Queen Chocolate Malt.
Also keep in mind that the body makes little distinction between ordinary white refined table sugar and such sweeteners as raw sugar, honey and fructose. Sugar is, well, sugar, a sweet source of calories and little else. Most sweet processed foods are calorie-dense and nutrient-deficient. In other words, you don't get back in needed sustenance what you are paying in calories consumed.
 
Health Consequences
Experts predict an ever-worsening epidemic of osteoporosis as American youths abandon milk in favor of soft drinks. In the "Liquid Candy" report, Dr. Michael Jacobson noted that in the late 1970's, teen-age boys consumed more than twice as much milk as soft drinks and teen-age girls drank 50 percent more milk than soft drinks. However, by the mid-1990's, the statistics had flip-flopped, with the average teen-ager drinking twice as much soda as milk and people in their 20's and 30's (who acquired the soft-drink habit in their teen-age years) drinking three times as much soda as milk. The result has been a serious decline in calcium intake at the very time young people are building the bone mass that will have to sustain them for life.
More serious perhaps is a potential rise in the risk of developing heart disease. Dr. Gerald Reaven, an endocrinologist at Stanford University and Shaman Pharmaceuticals, has shown that in some people a high-sugar diet raises blood levels of insulin, triglycerides and and other factors that increase the risk of heart disease. Such people are said to be insulin-resistant: They need abnormally large amounts of insulin to get sugar out of the blood and into cells where it can be used for energy.
Although genetics plays the major role in insulin resistance, the other causes of this problem are being overweight and inactive. The treatment should be obvious: Eat more foods like fruits and vegetables and plant-based proteins that are packed with needed nutrients and fiber and relatively low in calories, and get regular physical exercise.
Contrary to some diet mongers, insulin resistance is not the cause of overweight and a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet is not the cure. You will lose weight on such a diet because you will have to refrain from the bread, cakes, cookies, ice cream, sodas, candy and other high-calorie sweets that people tend to overeat. But how long can you maintain this restraint, and what good can come from omitting such nutritious foods as whole-grain breads and cereals, fruits like bananas and apples and vegetables like potatoes and carrots?
 
Learning from History
While heavy-duty advertising has contributed importantly to sales of sweet foods and drinks, more subtle factors are also at work. One, says Professor Alice Lichtenstein, nutritionist at the United States Department of Agriculture Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University in Boston, is "a growing sense that I'm allowed to drink something sweet with my meals and as a snack, that it's the in thing to do, and that it's O.K. to eat as much ice cream, cake and cookies as I want if they're fat-free."
Another possibility is the burgeoning popularity of artificial sweeteners, which have perpetuated and enhanced the American sweet tooth, creating a desire for heavily sweetened foods, most of which are made with the real, caloric stuff, not with artificial sweeteners.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Sweet They Are . . . "
 
All sorts of foods, both those that are obviously sweet as well as many others that are seemingly more healthful, contain a surprising amount of sugar. Here is a look at the sugar content (in grams) and calories of various sweets.
 
CANDY
 
CANDY -- Snickers (2.1 oz.)
SUGAR -- 29
CALORIES -- 280
 
CANDY -- Milky Way (2.1 oz)
SUGAR -- 35
CALORIES -- 270
 
CANDY -- Three Musketeers(2.1 oz.)
SUGAR -- 40
CALORIES -- 260
 
CANDY -- Skittles (2 oz.)
SUGAR -- 45
CALORIES -- 240
 
CEREALS
 
CEREAL -- Cheerios (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 1
CALORIES -- 110
 
CEREAL -- Kelloggs Frosted Mini-Wheats(5 biscuits)
SUGAR -- 10
CALORIES -- 180
 
CEREAL -- Kelloggs Frosted Flakes (3/4 cup)
SUGAR -- 13
CALORIES -- 120
 
COOKIES
 
COOKIES -- SnakWell's Creme Sandwich (2)
SUGAR -- 10
CALORIES -- 110
 
COOKIES -- Pepperidge Farm Milano (3)
SUGAR -- 11
CALORIES -- 180
 
COOKIES -- Nabisco Oreo (3)
SUGAR -- 13
CALORIES -- 160
 
COOKIES -- Nabisco Reduced Fat Oreo (3)
SUGAR -- 14
CALORIES -- 130
 
"FRUIT" DRINKS
 
"FRUIT" DRINK -- Gatorade,any flavor (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 143
CALORIES -- 50
 
"FRUIT" DRINK -- Arizona Original Iced Tea with Lemon Flavor (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 24
CALORIES -- 90
 
"FRUIT" DRINK -- Ocean Spray Cranberry Juice Cocktail (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 25
CALORIES -- 140
 
"FRUIT" DRINK -- Snapple Pink Lemonade (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 27
CALORIES -- 120
 
DAIRY PRODUCTS
 
DAIRY PRODUCT -- Haagen-Dazs Chocolate Chocolate Chip Ice Cream (1 cup)
SUGAR -- 48
CALORIES -- 600
 
DAIRY PRODUCT -- McDonald's Vanilla Shake, large(20 oz.)
SUGAR -- 71
CALORIES -- 480
 
PASTRIES, CAKES
 
PASTRY, CAKE -- Hostess Twinkies (1.5 oz.)
SUGAR -- 14
CALORIES -- 150
 
PASTRY, CAKE -- Little Debbie Fudge Brownies (2.5 oz.)
SUGAR -- 28
CALORIES -- 310
 
PASTRY, CAKE -- Au Bon Pain Blueberry Muffin (4.5 oz.)
SUGAR -- 36
CALORIES -- 430
 
PASTRY, CAKE -- Mrs. Fields Double Fudge Brownie (3 oz.)
SUGAR -- 47
CALORIES -- 420
 
SOFT DRINKS
 
SOFT DRINK -- Coca-Cola Classic, Dr. Pepper, Pepsi (1.5 cups)
SUGAR -- 40
CALORIES -- 150
 
SOFT DRINK -- Sunkist Orange Soda (1.5 cups)
SUGAR -- 52
CALORIES -- 190
 
(Source: Nutrition Action Healthletter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; SUGAR SOFT DRINKS (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINK MFG (89%); NUTRITION (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); MILK (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (72%); HEART DISEASE (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); OILS & FATS (70%); DIABETES (70%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); DIETING (66%); HYPERTENSION (65%); CANCER (64%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (58%); OSTEOPOROSIS (52%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998

 
