

801 of 805 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2565 words

HEADLINE: Where The Boys Are;
Networks' Huge Bet On Football Provides Must-See TV for Men

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
TT was the most expensive deal in the history of network television -- and the riskiest, carrying predictions that it might come close to bankrupting the companies that agreed to it.
But on Super Sunday for the National Football League, one year after three networks committed a total of $12.8 billion for rights to broadcast N.F.L. games through 2005, the alarm that sounded on many sides of the television industry has become muted. 
 In its place is a growing conviction that in the diminished world of network television, football may soon be among the few sure sources of big audiences -- especially male audiences, the most precious commodity for advertisers.
It is the reliable, enduring appeal of the sport that is convincing some television executives inside and outside the networks that the financial risks of meeting the N.F.L.'s extravagant price pale in comparison with the risk of a future without football, particularly as the advent of digital television promises to multiply the number of television channels many times over.
According to Nielsen Media Research, men are already watching less television across the board than in the past. But all three broadcast networks with professional football -- ABC, CBS and Fox -- have shown some growth in one category or another of male viewers for their regular prime-time shows this season. At least in part, those numbers are connected to the promotional opportunities that football games offer.
At the same time, NBC, the network that chose to walk away from the N.F.L. rather than pay what it deemed to be an inflated price for the right to broadcast games, has lost fully a quarter of the male viewers who watched its shows last season. (Its prime-time ratings among men 18 to 49 were down 26 percent in late 1998 and early 1999 from the same period a year earlier.)
While the largest portion of those male defections is being attributed by executives both inside and outside NBC to the absence this season of what had been television's most popular entertainment show among men, "Seinfeld," the loss of football amounts to a second wound for NBC, one that is certainly contributing to its hemorrhaging of male viewers.
Many advertisers pay a premium to pitch to men, because they are harder to reach than women, who simply watch more television. "In prime time, most shows are geared toward women," said Steve Sternberg, a senior partner with TN Media in New York, a company that advises advertisers about buying commercial time on television. "So when you get a show that draws men, it is particularly valuable."
Football, though it does have a sizable number of female fans, still draws a heavy concentration of men, which makes it a must buy for companies that sell products like beer, cars and shaving gear.
Over the last two decades, the networks have seen their share of the overall television audience greatly reduced because of competition from the growing number of cable television channels. So despite some overall losses in viewing for the N.F.L. over that time, there is an increasing recognition of the value of football as a means to attract a mass audience as channels mushroom in the future.
For example, this year's National Football Conference championship game between the Atlanta Falcons and the Minnesota Vikings generated a 25.7 rating for Fox, the network that bought the rights to carry N.F.C. games in last year's deal. The American Football Conference championship game between the New York Jets and the Denver Broncos hit a 26.6 for CBS, which won the rights to A.F.C. games. (Each rating point represents 994,000 homes.)
Only two programs do better than that in any year: the Academy Awards and today's main event, the Super Bowl. That means three of the four top-rated programs every year -- in all times, not just in prime time -- are N.F.L. games.
"I see football as vitally important; in the year 2005, it's going to look like a giant in a sea of pygmies," said David Hill, chairman of the Fox network, a unit of the News Corporation, which won legitimacy as a network largely on the basis of outbidding CBS for N.F.C. games in 1994. Fox paid $1.58 billion that year for four years of games, and $4.4 billion in last January's deal to renew the rights for another eight years.
"The N.F.L. is holding up very well in the face of the fragmentation of viewers," said Dean Bonham, the head of the Bonham Group, a Denver-based sports marketing firm that specializes in analyzing financial deals for sports properties. "The N.F.L. is insurance. For these networks, whether they lose money on the deal or not, the N.F.L. is not part of the problem; it's part of the solution."
Mr. Sternberg of TN Media agreed. "Five years from now, this could look like the greatest deal in the world," he said.
For the moment, it still looks a bit pricey. The networks that agreed to pay those billions all recognize that they cannot charge enough for the commercials during the games themselves to cover the enormous annual rights fees. They have all tried to use football as a promotional lever to build revenue in other areas, like regular prime-time programming, their own cable programming and even their informational sites on the Internet, where the networks are seeking a growing presence.
 THE record of success for those efforts is open to some debate. NBC executives, who still find themselves defending the network's decision to abandon professional football after more than 30 years, say that any network in the N.F.L. deal can expect losses of more than $100 million a year from it, making it extremely difficult for the networks to be profitable.
Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports, said the full measure of the risk of the deal made by the other networks cannot yet be taken. "In a great economy, the likes of which has seldom been seen before, this is a very shaky deal economically," he said. "In a bad economy, it's unimaginable how bad it could be."
Mr. Ebersol agreed that the N.F.L. retained a powerful appeal among viewers. "There are four or five times a year when you get a lead-in for your shows like nothing else on television," he said. "But we said, 'Do you trade that for $150 million to $200 million in losses?' "
NBC insists that the falloff in its numbers of prime-time male viewers this year cannot be attributed to the absence of N.F.L. games. "We can find no statistical evidence that the loss of football is a major part of our problem," said Randy Falco, president of the NBC Network. Instead, both he and Mr. Ebersol put the blame on the network's failure to develop strong hits in the last three years that could take up the slack from the "Seinfeld" departure.
Executives from the three networks that paid huge prices for football argued when their deal with the N.F.L. was announced last year that critics had exaggerated the expected losses. They predicted that in the long run, their investment in football would prove to be successful -- both economically and strategically.
CBS says the deal is already paying off. The network has been the most aggressive of the three in claiming that it will make a modest profit on the N.F.L., even though, at $500 million a year, it agreed to pay more than double what NBC had been paying under the previous N.F.L. contract for rights to the A.F.C. games.
Sean McManus, president of CBS Sports, pointed to the ratings for CBS's nationally televised games this season, which were exactly equal to those that NBC recorded the year earlier -- a performance that defied the general downward trend in ratings for network programming.
As for revenues from N.F.L. games, Mr. McManus said, "We accomplished our goals for the season; in fact, we exceeded our expectations."
He and other senior CBS executives declined to offer any specifics about the network's football revenue, but several executives involved in the sale of commercials during N.F.L. games said CBS had taken in about $360 million from those ad sales. Ad agencies would keep 15 to 17 percent for commissions, leaving net revenues for CBS of just over $300 million.
The network also said it received about $80 million in new revenue for the local stations that it owns -- seven of which, including WCBS in New York, are in cities with A.F.C. teams. The $80 million figure has been disputed by some of CBS's rivals.
Mr. Ebersol, the NBC Sports president, also suggested that CBS had a one-year-only break this season as it absorbed some money from advertisers displaced from NBC by the strike that killed the early part of the National Basketball Association season. But CBS executives said that any extra money the network accrued from N.B.A. sponsors contributed little to the $70 million in additional advertising revenue that it took in over NBC's total for the A.F.C. package the year before.
CBS certainly benefited from a deal it made last year with its affiliated stations to share some of the costs of its football contract. CBS executives put the affiliates' contribution at about $40 million, though only about $28 million of that was in cash, with the rest taking the form of a complicated exchange of advertising time. (Fox made a similar arrangement with its affiliates.)
One other source of revenue for CBS is subscription fees paid by satellite services. Those fees, currently about $5 million, should increase in the coming years.
So a best-case scenario -- after subtracting the $35 million CBS paid in production costs this year -- puts CBS's total football revenue at about $380 million -- well below the $500 million annual rights fee it must pay. But CBS spread out its payments to the N.F.L., assigning only $300 million to $330 million to the first year of the deal. That might mean that enormous costs are looming in the future, though CBS financial executives say they have taken steps to assure that no overwhelming balloon payments lie ahead. They say they will use some of the money made this year to cover those deferred expenses.
 LESS tangible, but perhaps more important for CBS, is the influence that the N.F.L. may be having on both the network's prime-time schedule and its overall image. Leslie Moonves, president of CBS Television, cited 12 shows that have attracted bigger male audiences this season than the shows that were in the same time periods last year. The network's new core of hits -- including "Everybody Loves Raymond," "King of Queens," "Becker" and "JAG" -- were heavily pushed during football games.
In addition, two new programs, "60 Minutes II" and "Turks," garnered strong ratings when they were introduced in recent weeks -- thanks, in part, to the exposure they got in heavily viewed N.F.L. playoff games, Mr. Moonves said. (The same sort of exposure also worked for a new Fox show, "The PJ's.")
"When we didn't have football, we were looked upon as a second-rate network," he said. "The 28-year-old media buyer in New York probably never watched a show on CBS. Now he watches football, and he's going to realize we have some other shows he's interested in."
More pointedly, the loss of the N.F.L. five years ago had a profound effect on the entire structure of the CBS network. One year after the deal, a host of important CBS affiliates abruptly defected to Fox, the network that had stolen away CBS's N.F.L. package, sending CBS reeling.
"That was the clear and measurable downside of losing football for CBS," said Mr. Bonham, the sports marketing expert. "We can also look at Fox and see how it benefited. Everyone said Fox was crazy with what it paid to get football away from CBS. It was predicted they'd lose hundreds of millions -- and they did. But football put Fox on the map."
Indeed, Chase Carey, the chairman of Fox Television, said: "Football helped build this network. The Fox sports brand, which is centered in the N.F.L., has been essential in building all of Fox."
 THE Super Bowl rotates each year among the three networks that carry regular N.F.L. games. Fox has it this year, and Mr. Carey said it would be the centerpiece of the most profitable day in that network's history. "We're going to make $150 million from Super Sunday," he said. That includes money from commercial spots during the game, selling at $1.5 million to $2 million for 30 seconds, and from spots during seven hours of pregame shows and the hour of entertainment shows that will follow the game.
Mr. Carey declined to say whether Fox would make or lose money on the N.F.L. this season, but he noted that ratings for Fox's national games were up slightly from last season. "It's an expensive deal," he said, "We'd prefer to pay less. But by the end, we'll be more than whole on this deal."
At ABC, which has the rights to the N.F.L.'s Monday night games, the economic picture is gloomier after the first season of the new football contract. Ratings for "Monday Night Football" were down about 5 percent, and ABC, unlike CBS and Fox, did not reach an agreement with its affiliates for help with the rights fees. When the Walt Disney Company, which owns ABC, reported last week that its earnings had declined, it cited the high cost of broadcasting N.F.L. games as part of the reason.
ABC paid $4.4 billion, or $550 million a year, to retain rights to the Monday games for eight years, up from $920 million, or $230 million a year, for its previous "Monday Night Football" deal. Disney also paid $4.8 billion, or $600 million a year, for exclusive rights for Sunday night games on cable, which its ESPN all-sports channel had previously shared with Time Warner's TNT channel for a total price of $992 million, or $248 million a year.
Steve Bornstein, president of ABC Sports and chairman of ESPN, said "Monday Night Football" suffered from the effects of "lopsided games." This season was also the first in which the network moved the starting time up from 9 P.M. to 8:15. "That helped us in the East, but there was falloff in other time zones," he said, adding that the network is considering "moving the start time later" next season.
Like his peers at other networks, Mr. Bornstein declined to provide specifics on football revenues. "We knew it was going to be very expensive," he said of the N.F.L. deal. But he pointed out that the Sunday night games showed strong ratings growth of 13 percent from last year.
And even in a down year, Mr. Bornstein said, "Monday Night Football" still delivers the best profile of male viewers of any show in prime-time television. For the television season so far, it had a 12.4 rating for all male viewers over the age of 18, by far television's best number; NBC's "E.R" was a distant second, with an 8.9 rating. That strong appeal to men was the attraction that led NBC, even after it decried the escalation in fees for its old package of A.F.C. games, to bid that much and more in an effort to steal "Monday Night Football" away from ABC.
"It's still a crown jewel," Mr. Bornstein said.
Over all, Mr. Bornstein concluded, "We don't look at the N.F.L. deal as anything but positive." And that picture gets even brighter, he said, when the future makeup of the television landscape is factored in. "I have always believed that sports would be the punch-through programming for the future," Mr. Bornstein said. "It's big-time programming for the fragmented television picture. I believe that more today than ever before."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with an article about the television networks' use of football to attract male viewers mislabeled the average amounts paid for 30 seconds of commercial time during the Super Bowl. The figures represented thousands: the cost rose from $659,500 in 1990 to $1.6 million this year, not from $659 to $1,600.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ally McBeal. PJ's. Randy Moss of the Minnesota Vikings makes a catch. (pg. 8)
 
Charts/Graph: "Week In, Week Out, Men Watch Football..."
Top 10 prime-time network series for the current season.
 
MALE VIEWERS (age 18 - 49)
 
1.Monday Night Football (ABC)
2.E.R. (NBC)
3.Friends (NBC)
4.The X-Files (Fox)
5.Frasier (NBC)
6.The Simpsons (Fox)
7.Jesse (NBC)
8.Veronica's Closet (NBC)
9.The Drew Carey Show (ABC)
10.NFL Monday Showcase (ABC)
 
FEMALE VIEWERS (age 18 - 49)
 
1.E.R. (NBC)
2.Friends (NBC)
3.Frasier (NBC)
4.Veronica's Closet (NBC)
5.Jesse (NBC)
6.Ally McBeal (Fox)
7.The X-Files (Fox)
8.N.Y.P.D. Blue (ABC)
9.The Drew Carey Show (ABC)
10.Party of Five (Fox)
 
...and Everyone Tunes In to the Biggest Games...
Highest-rated prime-time network specials for the last four seasons.
 
1997-98
 
1. Super Bowl XXXII
2. Academy Awards
3. Seinfeld special - May 14, 1998
4. Super Bowl XXXII post-game
5. World Series Game 7
 
1996-97
 
1. Super Bowl XXXI
2. Super Bowl XXXI post-game
3. Academy Awards
4. NBA Finals Game 5
5. World Series Game 5
 
1995-96
 
1. Super Bowl XXX
2. Super Bowl XXX post-game
3. Academy Awards
4.Friends - Jan. 28, 1996
5. Summer Olympics Tuesday
 
1994-95
 
1. Academy Awards
2. Super Bowl XXIX post-game
3.Seinfeld - Feb. 16, 1995
4.Mad About You - Jan. 19, 1995
5.Seinfeld - Nov. 17, 1994
 
...So Super Bowl TV Revenues Keep Rising
Total network revenues and individual ad costs for commercials during the Super Bowl broadcast. Graph plots ad revenue from '90 trough '98 and the cost of a 30-second ad, from '91 through '99.
 
"When Every Second Counts"
During the N.F.L. playoff game between Minnesota and Arizona on Jan. 10, Fox devoted most of the 512 minutes of promotions it was allotted to The PJ's, a new animated program. The target viewers -- young men -- responded, making the PJ's preview their most-watched show so far this season.
 
Duration of the entire program: 3 hours, 7 minutes
Game itself: 2 hours, 25 minutes, 30 seconds
Total promotional time allowed: 5 minutes, 30 seconds
National commercials 29 minutes total; 58 spots of 30 seconds each
Local commercials: 7 minutes
PJ's promotions: 6 spots, 30 seconds each, plus a total of 30 seconds of voice-over announcements
Total promotional time allowed: 5 minutes, 30 seconds
Promotions for other programs (including Ally McBeal,The X-Files,and The Simpsons): 2 minutes total. (Source: Fox Broadcasting)(pg. 8)
 
"Bad Old Days"
David Letterman's top ten list after CBS lost its National Football League contract in 1994.
 
Top Ten New CBS Slogans
 
10 CBS = Could be sold
9 More powerful than the weather channel!
8 You're watching CBS ... at least for another week or two
7 We're No. 4!
6 Hey, we still have a station in Tennessee!
5 If you'll bring your talk show here, we'll sell all our stations!
4 In case anyone cares, we've still got Andy Rooney!
3 You can't spell Bumbling Executives without C-B-S!
2 El Tella Vizzy own de expletive !
1 CBS, now on Fox!
(Source: CBS/Worldwide Pants Inc.)(pg. 8)
 
"Dancing In the End Zone"
The three networks that broadcast N.F.L. games -- ABC,CBS, and FOX -- all have increased their prime-time ratings among men 18 to 49 so far this season compared with the same period last year, by the percentages shown. NBC which dropped football, has lost more than a quarter of its male viewers. (Source: Nielsen Media Research)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP; FOX INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; ABC INC; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (59%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS CORP; FOX INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; ABC INC; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (59%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; FOOTBALL; ADVERTISING; MEN TELEVISION INDUSTRY (95%); NETWORK TELEVISION (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MEN (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (79%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); WOMEN (76%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (59%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL DAVID LETTERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999



802 of 805 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 1;Column 1;Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Hard Right -- Voters All Over Take the Wheel From Conservatives;
An Identity Crisis In the U.S.

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WITH great confidence and some justification, Republicans have long proclaimed that theirs is the party of ideas. So it seemed quite a turn when Representative Steve Largent, in the Republicans' response to the State of the Union address this month, found himself having to pose this question: "What does the party of Lincoln and Reagan stand for today?"
The question confounds Republicans at every gathering. At a meeting of the national party the other day, Jim Nicholson was re-elected chairman not because he had a fresh agenda. Rather, his backers persuaded party members that -- as the person who nominated him put it -- it was not his fault that "we lack a coherent message." 
 Even former Speaker Newt Gingrich conceded in a speech earlier this month that after his party recaptured the House in 1994, "we were not able to create a second agenda."
For a generation, Republicans have been the tribune of a resurgent American conservatism. Republicanism not only brought electoral success, it changed the way Americans thought of their government and of themselves. There were divisions in the party and tensions between social and economic strains of conservative thought, but nobody doubted that Republicans had an agenda or that the party's world view was ascendant.
Now, quite suddenly, the definition of conservatism is up for grabs. With the budget balanced, crime down, the welfare rolls, divorce rates and single motherhood shrunken under a Democratic President, the line between Democrats and Republicans can be hard to find. So Republicans find themselves defined by impeachment, by their argument that the President represents a nation in moral decline and must therefore be removed. Republicans have found that Americans are leery of a party that appears to be pressing for moral cleansing -- whether it is about Mr. Clinton, abortion or the rights of homosexuals -- and may even be offended by the notion.
"The reason Republicans seem so headless is because they have this enormously important issue in front of them -- the impeachment of the President -- but they don't want to acknowledge that it is their most important issue," said David Frum, a conservative theorist in Washington. By contrast, he said, Democrats have an advantage because Mr. Clinton's pragmatic politics fit the public mood. "This is a very conservative age, but not in an ideological sense," Mr. Frum said. "And right now the Republicans are a party of reform and change and the Democrats are the party of the status quo -- and he benefits from that."
Democrats have embraced Mr. Clinton's popular notion that people do not want grand schemes as much as practical solutions to smaller problems. (It is no accident that the man who wants to succeed Mr. Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, recently unveiled a slogan of his own, "practical idealism.")
That leaves conservatives competing to reinterpret Republicanism, to try to make it popular again. The struggle is complicated because, as the 2000 campaign gets underway, Presidential candidates are molding their appeals to the narrow base that is important in the primaries while Republicans in Congress are trying to fashion their own post-impeachment agenda.
Like Democrats, Republicans are a big, messy, contradictory coalition. While many in the party agree on a broad set of issues, the challenge is settling on which to emphasize. Here are three approaches:
 
Moralists
Social conservatives like William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary, and Gary Bauer, a prominent Christian conservative who is running for President, think the party should be unapologetic about emphasizing its outrage at Mr. Clinton's behavior and what they see as the nation's moral decline. In polls, Republicans are consistently viewed as having higher ethical standards than Democrats.
But the danger is that beyond hard-edged conservatives, many voters wince at the notion of politicians dictating moral behavior. After years of accusing Democrats of being wedded to big government, Republican proponents of a moral crusade risk appearing as if they are espousing government as a means of enforcing a moral code. Mr. Clinton and his advisers are mindful of polls showing that over the last two decades, more and more Americans -- Democrats included -- have come to favor a more limited role for government.
"Impeachment and the trial of the President seem to be their unifying theme right now," said Paul Beck, chairman of the political science department at Ohio State University. "But there is this curious contradiction: Republicans are saying, 'Let's get the Government out of your pocketbook and wallet but into your bedroom.' The public may be thinking, 'Who are you to tell us what the standards of morality should be?' "
 
Traditionalists
These Republicans believe that the party should stick to its bedrock issues -- shrinking Government, fighting crime and cutting taxes -- while neither emphasizing nor ignoring touchy social issues like morals and abortion. They argue that the party has faltered not because these issues are no longer winners, but because the party has not pushed them aggressively enough.
"The key for us now is to lay out a clear agenda that focuses on our core issues: tax cuts, smaller government, welfare reform and strong defense," said Representative David McIntosh of Indiana. "The problem we had in the last election was it looked like we were abandoning those ideas to simply focus on an impeachment vote." Mr. McIntosh warned: "We shouldn't be drawn into fights that the President wants. In health care, he will always have a better-sounding proposal if we accept his premise that the Government should run the health care system."
In their State of the Union response, Mr. Largent, of Washington, and Representative Jennifer Dunn of California infuriated many moralists who are indignant about Mr. Clinton's conduct; the lawmakers played down the scandal and underscored the bedrock Republican issues. "Our country is not in crisis," Ms. Dunn said. "There are no tanks in the street."
 
Innovators
They argue that Republicans cannot simply repeat the party's old rallying cries. "Anybody who says that the Republicans should run on welfare reform or on balancing the budget or having a middle class tax cut has a backward view," said Jeff Bell, a conservative thinker. "You have to move to a daring set of issues."
That means the party cannot be timid about playing on Mr. Clinton's turf. From Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin to John Engler of Michigan, many Governors have sought to play down divisive social issues. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, considered the leading Presidential contender should he run, has triedt to put a friendly face on traditional party issues with the term "compassionate conservatism."
Greg Mueller, a conservative public relations operative, cited polls suggesting that the party can broaden its appeal among blacks, Hispanics and Catholics by pushing tax breaks for sending children to private schools. "A lot of Republicans are chicken to talk about Social Security, education and health care, where these have the potential to be positive issues for Republicans," Mr. Mueller said. And they are too quick to cede those matters to the White House, he said. "There's a mentality that we don't have the bully pulpit."
These competing strains are reminiscent of what Democrats endured in the 1970's and 1980's, when the outspoken left wing prevented its leaders from settling on an agenda they could ride to the White House (except for Jimmy Carter's victory in 1976.)
Douglas Sosnik, one of Mr. Clinton's closest aides, argued that confusion is inevitable for any party that does not have a President to rally around. "No leader has earned the right to tell the rest of the people in the party what it means to be a Republican," he said. Many Republicans say the same thing -- and pin their hopes on the prospect that their party will be rescued by a popular, charismatic standard bearer in 2000.
That may be wishful thinking. The last two Republican nominees, Bob Dole and George Bush, failed to sell a new definition of conservatism. The man who succeeded was Bill Clinton.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the Republican Party's identity crisis misidentified the home states of two Representatives. Steve Largent is from Oklahoma, not Washington; Jennifer Dunn is from Washington, not California.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); CRIME RATES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999



803 of 805 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14;Page 4;Column 2;The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Waves of Trouble Are Lapping at Chelsea's Piers

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
AS the new year begins, winds of economic change are blowing on West 23d Street at the Hudson River. Ill winds, it seems.
The Crab House Restaurant, situated on Pier 61 in the Chelsea Piers sports complex, has closed. Chelsea Piers L.P., the company that runs the complex, has recently begun eviction proceedings against the Chelsea Brewing Company, a restaurant on Pier 59. And the Chelsea Equestrian Center, on Pier 63, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection at the end of December. 
 Technically not a part of Chelsea Piers -- it is a subtenant of another sports establishment, Basketball City, also at Pier 63 -- the equestrian center opened in the summer of 1997. It offered Manhattan a new concept: a members-only club with its own riding rings, private changing facilities and other amenities not available at the borough's only other riding center, Claremont Stables, on West 89th Street near Central Park.
But Claremont, which is open to the public, charges $35 an hour for a ride and does not impose any membership fees. The Chelsea Equestrian Center, with initiation fees of between $1,500 and $2,500 and additional charges of $125 to $300 per month, was asking for much more. And that proved to be a hard sell, the operations manager at Chelsea, Claudio Miro, conceded.
"We had 400 to 500 members by the end of the first year, but very few of them renewed," he said. "They didn't see the value." He said that prospective members also seemed worried by articles in the press about the future of Pier 63, which is slated to become part of Chelsea Waterside Park once reconstruction of the West Side Highway is completed.
Indeed, there are those who insist that the riding center must come down at the end of next year, when the master lease between Basketball City and the state's Department of Transportation expires. "It is definitely part of the park, and it is definitely slated for demolition," said Andrew Berman, chief of staff for Tom Duane, the newly elected state senator who represents the area and who also was its City Council member for years. He has long opposed the commercialization of the Chelsea waterfront.
But Jason Stewart, a spokesman for Basketball City, said that the center had exercised both of its two-year options to extend its lease, meaning that it does not have to leave until December 2004. And, he said, Basketball City plans "to negotiate with the city and state to stay longer."
"We feel we would be a valuable asset to the park," Mr. Stewart said.
For the moment, the equestrian center has begun allowing nonmembers to use its indoor and outdoor rings, while retaining its members-only policy two days a week. And there has been "a significant increase in traffic" as a result, according to Mr. Miro, who said he was optimistic about the center's chances for survival under the protection of the bankruptcy court, which will allow it to restructure its debts.
Meanwhile, the 50-year lease between Chelsea Piers and the state was apparently insufficient to save the Crab House restaurant, which closed its doors on Jan. 5 after months of economic difficulties.
Part of Landry's Seafood Restaurants, a national chain based in Houston, the restaurant received mediocre reviews on its opening in 1996 and later complained of a lack of business because of insufficient retail development at the complex. Last summer, the Crab House resorted to renting itself out to private promoters for late-night events. But according to papers filed by Chelsea Piers Management in state Supreme Court in Manhattan, patrons were frequently "intoxicated and unruly." In the papers, Chelsea Piers also called the parties illegal violations of the Crab House's lease and of city cabaret licensing laws.
Under the prodding of pier management, the Crab House voluntarily stopped the private parties in late July. But on Dec. 26 another party was held, according to the court papers, and it culminated in an early-morning altercation among a number of patrons and, finally, a shooting and car crash within the pier complex.
That prompted Chelsea Piers to go to court a week later to block future parties, but the case was not heard because the restaurant shut down voluntarily.
Steven Scheinthal, a Landry's vice president, did not deny the parties, but said there was "nothing wrong or improper about them." He also said Chelsea Piers had done "everything possible to be as difficult as they could be as a landlord," including allowing vehicles from other establishments to block access to the Crab House and failing to promote the restaurant.
Jack Batman, a Chelsea Piers spokesman, said that the Crab House was still technically a tenant and that Landry's had informed the complex that it was going to renovate its space. For now, though, the Crab House remains dark, its signs removed and its telephone unanswered.
And what of the Chelsea Brewing Company, which in May 1996 was the very first restaurant to open at the complex? Chelsea Piers filed papers in state Civil Court in Manhattan on Jan. 15 seeking its eviction, alleging several months of arrears in the restaurant's monthly rent of approximately $23,000. The case was originally set to be heard last Wednesday, but was adjourned until this week. Diane Russo, a restaurant principal, did not return a call for comment, and Mr. Batman, the Chelsea Piers spokesman, would say only that there were "unresolved legal issues."
Despite the current troubles at the western tip of 23d Street, Chelsea Piers management insists that the complex, which was struggling to survive three years ago, is in much better shape now.
"Absolutely," Mr. Batman said, adding that there were 3.8 million customer visits to the complex last year, up from 3.1 million in 1997 and 2.1 million in 1996. The piers now house a field house, roller- and ice-skating rinks, a bowling alley and a sports center, with sports leagues that are "filled to capacity." There are shops and even a television studio.
"It's been wonderful," Mr. Batman said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 31 about waterfront businesses in Chelsea misstated the outcome of legal action Chelsea Piers took against the Crab House, a restaurant that operated there until it closed on Jan. 5. Chelsea Piers did in fact obtain a court order on Jan. 14 that barred parties with dancing or live entertainment at the restaurant; the restaurant's shutdown did not prevent the case from being decided.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Crab House Restaurant closed on Jan. 5. One week earlier, the Chelsea Equestrian Center filed for bankruptcy. (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TIMELINE: The Piers Through the Years"
 
1902-10 -- Chelsea Piers, originally comprising Piers 54 to 62, between 14th and 23d Streets, are constructed. First of the "finger piers" to accommodate large ocean liners.
 
1912-15 -- In 1912, the Titanic scheduled to dock at Chelsea Piers after her maiden voyage. In 1915, the Luisitania leaves 14th Street for Europe and is sunk by the Germans.
 
1930's -- The Depression sharply reduces sea traffic. New ships, like the Normandie and the Queen Mary, grow larger and longer,and begin to dock uptown at "luxury liner row" between 44th and 50th Streets.
 
1940's -- The piers are used for transport of troops to and from Europe.
 
1950's-60's -- The piers are used mostly for cargo, but are slowly abandoned as container ships, which dock elsewhere, replace conventional freighters. In 1967, the last shippers leave the piers.
 
1970's-80's -- Used to store sanitation trucks and towed cars, the piers fall into disrepair. The state acquires them for demolition for the Westway Project, which is later abandoned.
 
1992 -- A private conern, Chelsea Piers L.P., proposes converting Piers 59 to 62 into a sports and entertainment complex. It opens in 1995.
 
1996 -- Over budget and saddled with debt, Chelsea Piers management renegotiates its lease with the state, extending it from 20 to 50 years.
 
1998 -- Almost four million people visit the piers many attractions, which include soccer fields, batting cages, roller and ice rinks, restaurants, shops and the television studio where an ABC comedy, "Spin City," is taped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHELSEA PIERS LP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); ATHLETES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); EVICTION (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); SPORTS (72%); CITIES (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (67%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999



804 of 805 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPITALIST;
A Stake in Every Pot

BYLINE: By Matthew Miller; Matthew Miller writes a syndicated column and is a commentator for National Public Radio.

 BODY:
In case anyone's keeping score out there, Liberty has been trouncing Equality in their ancient war for America's soul. Despite recent hikes in the minimum wage, for example, that wage buys less after inflation than it did in the 1970's. Millions of kids languish in failed urban schools while their elders bicker over whether vouchers might help a handful. Welfare "reform" scrapped subsistence guarantees for six million poor children, there being no other way, apparently, to force their mothers into dismal jobs. And in the wake of President Clinton's first-term health-care fiasco, the ranks of the uninsured have soared, topping 43 million at last count. Toss in the fact that the gains from our strong economy go mostly to the skilled and savvy, since today's impressive job growth is still matched by stagnant wages for less-educated workers. If you're nostalgic for rising tides that lift all ships, the picture looks bleak.
Into this climate comes a Big New Idea so bold in its simplicity, so pure in its claims to justice and so downright expensive that the only shock is that it is certain to get a hearing as the fight to fix Social Security heats up this year. Imagine if Washington gave every citizen an $80,000 stake by age 24 to use as he or she saw fit. That's the subversive kernel peddled by two Yale law professors, Bruce Ackerman and Anne Alstott, in their forthcoming book, "The Stakeholder Society." 
 Staking each American to a share of the nation's accumulated wealth is the only way to take equal opportunity seriously, the authors say. Fixing the schools could take decades; redistributing income year after year is a political loser. Far better, at the dawn of adulthood, to share the wealth instead. Thus the stake. It could be used to start a business or pay for college, to help a parent stay home when the children are young or tide a family over after a breadwinner's layoff. Some might stash the cash for retirement; others would plunk it down on black or red in Las Vegas. The choice would be the individual's, but in a world where too much already depends on the womb from which you drop, the moral and financial commitment to a fair start would be the nation's.
Ackerman and Alstott think stakeholding would transform our culture. Ghetto kids would have cause for hope, working-class newlyweds an unimaginable $160,000 nest egg. Even Steve Forbes might sleep better once inheritance became a right of citizenship, not an accident of birth.
So far, so provocative. But like most overeager panaceas, stakeholding gets a little dreamy in the details. For example, to make sure the plan pays for itself one day, everyone is required to pay back his stake (with interest) at death -- ignoring what to do about the millions who die broke, not to mention America's instinctive distrust of people who take back what they give. If you don't buy this payback scheme, Ackerman and Alstott have another "thoroughly practical" way to cover the plan's whopping $250-billion-a-year cost: a 2 percent annual wealth tax on the best-off 40 percent of Americans.
Yes, this would still leave our overall tax burden below that of other advanced nations, but a big, new European-style wealth tax isn't very likely to excite a Presidential contender looking for the issue that can take him all the way. Even seeking such sums seems certifiably silly, when this Democratic President won't have shaken loose a few extra billion to fully finance Head Start after two terms. Suddenly, stakeholding morphs into one of those cures that make philosophers sigh and politicians snicker.
Or does it? As it turns out, stakeholding looks an awful lot like an idea called Kid Save that Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska is hawking as part of his broader plan to save Social Security. Kerrey, whose long crusade for entitlement reform assures him a leading role in the coming debate, wants to make wealth creation, not income redistribution, the aim of economic policy.
His Kid Save would open a $1,000 savings account in every newborn's name and add $500 a year until age 5. Then the magic of compound interest takes over. Under the plan, which would cost about $15 billion a year (an earlier version passed the Senate with bipartisan support in 1997), each child's account accumulates nearly $20,000 by the time he turns 21. But notice what this means: for $30 billion a year (a fraction of the budget surpluses expected over the next decade, and roughly what President Clinton himself now wants to set aside for his new Universal Savings Accounts), Kerrey could ramp up to a respectable-looking stake of $40,000. In other words, Kerrey is just one leap of imagination away from phasing in Ackerman and Alstott's nutty idea without their nasty wealth tax, and at prices we can afford.
If inequality foes find this as enticing as I do, I've got one word of advice: Ssshh! After all, in an age when the press generally shoots down bold fixes that interest groups don't strangle first, it's a blessing when good ideas come in camouflage. For now, Kerrey links his Kid Save account to a Social Security reform that lets folks divert a piece of their payroll tax to personal savings (untouchable until the age of 65). If it catches on during the coming Social Security debate, there's time to spin it off later into a youth stake in the style of the Ackerman and Alstott proposal.
In the meantime, even early talk about putting a stake in every pot proves that signs of intelligent public life are out there, Monica notwithstanding. Who knows? If lies about sex can hijack national politics, maybe the truth about inequality stands a chance yet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (ILLUSTRATION BY JAMES VICTORE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999



805 of 805 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 17; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: OPINION;
New Tests Are a Stressful Measure

BYLINE: By MARC F. BERNSTEIN; The author is superintendent of the Bellmore-Merrick Central High School District.

 BODY:
OVER the past weeks, we have read almost daily accounts of the new three-day fourth-grade language arts tests and a seemingly unrelated New York Times Magazine feature story entitled "The Test Under Stress" Jan. 10 , describing the ubiquitous use of Scholastic Achievement Test preparation courses. Similarities between these two otherwise very different tests were striking: the high anxiety levels felt by both the 9-year-old fourth-graders and the high school juniors, the extensive tutoring being purchased by both groups and the high-stakes consequences of doing poorly on these tests.
While independent studies cast doubt upon any correlation between S.A.T. scores and students' college academic success after the initial year of study, we have no idea if any correlation exists between doing well on the new state tests and a child's success in school and/or later life. And, though we no longer have a visceral reaction to the hype associated with S.A.T.'s and the college-acceptance game, it is disturbing how prepared we are to extend that unpleasant reality to our 9-year-old children. Perhaps John Katzman of The Princeton Review said it best: "These tests really are going to wag the dog." 
 And they have! We are now transferring S.A.T.-type pressure, anxiety, high-stakes consequences and perhaps tutoring costs onto 9-year-olds. New York State is planning to test children but once during their elementary school careers in mathematics, language arts, science and social studies, with the results being used for major educational decisions. In New York City, test results will be a major criterion for acceptance into middle schools and for determining grade-to-grade promotion. Throughout New York State, these singular tests will be used to create lists of failing schools. Most importantly, instructional programs are being revamped to emphasize the specific skills that will be tested, though we have neither research nor pilot programs to tell us if these particular tests have any predictive power. And inasmuch as different subjects will be tested in different elementary grades, one can anticipate that teachers will stress that particular subject during the "tested" grade level to the exclusion of other subjects.
The potential consequences for children, teachers and the schools themselves of poor results are so great that teaching an enriched, comprehensive educational program might be unrealistic. Educators and parents who care about the arts or literature and other less quantifiable educational priorities have much to fear. The question remains -- why are we placing so much emphasis upon these elementary-school tests?
The likely reason for this over-emphasis is that in education, our goals are difficult to quantify as compared to other areas of public policy where one can find clearer indicators of success. For example, in the area of public health, we can look at mortality rates from specific diseases, infant mortality rates or overall population longevity rates in determining whether public health policies have worked. In the area of public safety we can look at the number of yearly homicides or violent crimes in determining whether policing has improved.
Certainly, we wish to prepare young people to enter the job market, to be good citizens in a democratic society, to enjoy cultural interests. But how do we measure whether specific school experiences contribute to reaching those goals? If one were to utilize the booming economy of the last several years, we would have to conclude that American schools were successful over the past two decades in preparing their students to enter the workplace. But we in America demand more quantifiable ways, like high-school diploma rates, percentages passing various tests or comparing American students' results to those of students in other countries. Can we know that the tests that we are preparing really measure what is required to meet the goals of our economy and society? Probably not. Yet we grasp at measures like the fourth-grade language arts assessment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: REVU (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION HOLDINGS 1 INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, MARC F

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999

 
