

601 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Vis Taraz, Stephen Preer

 BODY:
Vis Taraz, a daughter of Jennifer Taraz of New Canaan, Conn., and the late Ramin Taraz, was married yesterday to Stephen Randolph Preer, the son of Jean and James Preer of Indianapolis. Mary C. Pugh, a Connecticut justice of the peace, officiated at the Waveny House, an event space in New Canaan. 
 The bride, 27, and bridegroom, 30, met at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which they graduated and where he received a master's degree in electrical engineering.
 Ms. Taraz is keeping her name. She is a doctoral student in the economics of developing countries at Yale. Her father, a certified public accountant, was a vice president and the controller of the Arch Insurance Group, a commercial property and casualty insurer in New York. He was also the treasurer of Camp Hand-in-Hand, a summer camp for children of low-income families in New Canaan. 
 Mr. Preer is a software programmer in New Haven for a unit of Motorola that creates wireless communications software. His mother is an associate professor of library and information science at Indiana University and his father is an associate professor of physical science and chemistry at Ivy Tech Community College, both in Indianapolis. 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); FAMILY (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); LIBRARY SCIENCE (70%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (68%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



602 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Better to Be the Best

 BODY:
It was a bit of a shock when Toyota finally surpassed General Motors last week as the world's largest carmaker. Outside of disruptions caused by labor strikes, G.M. had led the pack for over 75 years. While hardly a cause for celebration in the American business community, Toyota's assumption of the crown -- after selling 2.35 million cars and trucks in its most recent quarter -- is not quite as bad as it appears. 
 In a very important sense -- profitability -- G.M. had not been on top in some time. It fell behind in volume last quarter, by 109,000 vehicles, largely as a result of deciding to reduce its unprofitable bulk sales to rental-car companies and dialing back some of its costlier incentives. More important, analysts say that G.M. has awakened to the challenge posed by Toyota and, although more difficult results lie ahead, the company may finally be moving in the right direction.
As global competition heats up, Americans will have to get used to having more of their companies fall from the top spot. How businesses respond will in no small way determine how well the United States succeeds in a world where it is no longer the unchallenged economic superpower.
 A major reason that so many American companies were world-beaters in the last century was the unmatched size of their rich and relatively homogenous domestic consumer market, big enough by itself for mass production, and bequeathing all the advantages of economies of scale for competition abroad. The United States economy is still the largest in the world, but ravenous young markets in places like India and China -- each with well over three times the population of America -- make clear that it will not stay that way forever. There will be ever more competitors from all over selling all over, and ready to knock off those in the old guard if they make the wrong choices. 
 This is no reason for American business to despair; instead, it has to refocus on how to stay competitive in a world beyond American dominance. Germany's recent success might serve as a model. As Mark Landler wrote in The Times recently, Germany, with the world's third-largest economy, has been the world's largest exporter of goods the last four years. And, Americans who believe protectionism is needed to level the playing field should note, it has managed to do it without cheap labor. German businesses have prospered with a focus on quality and strong brands, and particularly with sophisticated niche products, from lasers to Porsches. 
 Germany's recent success was not accomplished painlessly. There were wrenching layoffs and rounds of cost cutting and outsourcing along the way. General Motors faces a particular set of challenges because in the mass-market automobile game, the huge upfront costs of designing and building cars make sales volume crucial. But Germany's export prowess proves that for a smart industrialized country, many small successes can add up to No. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); STRIKES (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (54%) Automobiles; Editorials

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



603 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 5338 words

HEADLINE: Islamic Democrats?

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine. He is working on a book about democracy promotion.

 BODY:
At 2 in the morning, a few days after I arrived in Cairo last month, a text message beeped into my cellphone: ''Mahmoud Ghozlan, MB Guide Bureau, is being arrested NOW.'' Ghozlan was only the latest prominent member of the Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamist organization that commands deep loyalty in Egypt, to be hauled off by the dawn visitors of President Hosni Mubarak's security apparatus. In recent months, leaders of the organization, businessmen thought to be financial backers and other members of the brotherhood's Guidance Bureau have been arrested on a variety of charges. Forty members of the group have been indicted under Egypt's emergency laws and put under the jurisdiction of a military tribunal, which is likely to give them long jail sentences. 
The arrest and imprisonment of political opponents is nothing new in Egypt, which has been ruled by a succession of authoritarian leaders since 1952; secular democrats are in jail along with the Islamists. Egypt is generally rated as one of the more repressive countries in the world's most repressive region. But two years ago, responding in part to White House pressure, the regime of President Hosni Mubarak allowed parliamentary elections to take place under conditions of unprecedented political freedom -- at least initially. And the brotherhood, though a banned organization that had to run candidates as independents, dominated the contest until the government cracked down in later rounds of voting. The organization still took 88 of the 454 seats in Egypt's lower house, the People's Assembly, becoming, in effect, the first opposition party of Egypt's modern era. 
 But it is not simply numbers that make the brotherhood a threat from the regime's point of view. While Mubarak and his allies regularly denounce the brothers as fundamentalists bent on turning Egypt into a theocracy, the new legislators have made common cause with judges, liberal intellectuals and secular activists in calling for increased political freedom. They have steered clear of cultural or religious issues. Abdel Monem Abou el-Fotouh, one of Ghozlan's colleagues on the Guidance Bureau, said to me flatly, ''We are not a religious body.'' Only one of his 15 fellow guides, he said, is a sheik, or religious authority -- ''and even he is political.'' While many secular critics fear that the brotherhood harbors a hidden Islamist agenda, so far the organization has posed a democratic political challenge to the regime, not a theological one; and that makes it all the more dangerous.
 In his 2005 Inaugural Address, President Bush traced out the logic of a new, post-9/11 American foreign policy. ''For as long as whole regions of the world simmer in resentment and tyranny,'' he declared, violence ''will gather . . . and cross the most defended borders'' -- i.e., our own. Therefore, he announced, ''it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world.'' Thus was born the Freedom Agenda; and Egypt occupied the bull's-eye on this new target. Egypt was an authoritarian state that had supplied much of the leadership of Al Qaeda. It is also the largest nation in the Arab world and, historically, the center of the region's political and cultural life. Progress in Egypt's sclerotic political system would resonate all over the Islamic world. The nearly $2 billion a year in military and economic aid that the U.S. had been providing since the Camp David accords in 1979 offered real leverage. And Egypt's early experience of democratic government (from 1922 to 1952), mostly under British occupation, and its lively community of democratic and human rights activists gave political reform a firmer foundation than it had elsewhere in the Arab world. 
 As it happened, presidential and parliamentary elections were scheduled for 2005. Not long after his inaugural address, President Bush called Mubarak to urge him to allow independent monitors to oversee the elections and to loose the asphyxiating controls on political activity and the press. For his part, Mubarak needed to respond not only to Washington but also to a rising tide of domestic dissent -- and to the continued enfeeblement of his own National Democratic Party, which performed badly in legislative elections five years earlier. He agreed to hold Egypt's first contested presidential elections and to permit unprecedented, if carefully circumscribed, political freedom. The U.S. Agency for International Development, which in years past had allowed the regime to control the hundreds of millions of dollars it spent in Egypt, earmarked $50 million for democracy and governance; much of the money went to the training of political party activists and election monitors.
 The Muslim Brotherhood was not at that time a major force in national electoral politics. Since its founding in 1928, the brotherhood had sunk deep roots in the country's urban working and middle classes, and especially among the professions, establishing a powerful base in the ''syndicates'' that represent doctors, lawyers, journalists and others. The organization began dipping its toes in the water of parliamentary electioneering in the mid-'80s; in 2000 it gained 17 seats. But the group responded to the new climate of openness by fielding a much larger slate of candidates for the 2005 elections -- 160 in all. Candidates from old-line Nasserist and left-wing parties ran as well. 
 After decades of quiet organizing, the Islamists proved to be far more popular, and more disciplined, than the isolated leaders of Mubarak's ruling party expected. In the first of three rounds of voting, the brothers won so many seats that the regime grew alarmed. In the second round, the police restricted access to polling areas in brotherhood strongholds; the Islamists still won most of the seats they sought. In the third round, the regime pulled out all the stops: despite the presence of hundreds of American-trained election monitors, security forces beat up and arrested opposition activists and shut down voting booths. In the end, election violence would claim 14 lives. Video footage showed old women in head scarves and veils scaling ladders to reach polling places -- this in a country notorious for dismal turnout. The regime had feared a surge of support for secular opposition forces like Ghad, a new party founded by Ayman Nour, a charismatic figure who also opposed Mubarak in the presidential race, or Tagammu, the traditional party of the left. These were the groups that the Bush administration's democracy agenda was designed to promote. But they proved to have relatively little national following; few voters risked arrest to cast a ballot in their behalf. 
 The brotherhood quickly proved that it was not only popular, but savvy. The leaders understood that it was not in their interests to provoke a confrontation with the regime and its hair-trigger security forces. They fielded candidates in only a fraction of the districts they could have won. According to Joshua Stacher, an American scholar of Egyptian politics who lives in Cairo, a brotherhood politician who projected winning 17 seats in his governorate was instructed by his superior to come back with a smaller number. Only when he whittled the figure to seven was he told to go ahead. The brotherhood won six of the seats. Stacher also notes that when the brotherhood held a press conference (which he attended) four days after the election to introduce their new legislators, a reporter asked Muhammad Akef, the ''supreme guide,'' if they would be prepared to talk to the Americans. And Akef answered, ''Yes, but they should forward the request to the Egyptian Foreign Ministry.'' He was saying both that the brotherhood was open to dialogue and that it had nothing to hide from the regime.
 The brotherhood bloc took Parliament a great deal more seriously than the ruling party did. The entire 88-person contingent moved into a hotel in Cairo in order to be able to work and live together while the People's Assembly was in session. Merely showing up changed the dynamic of this torpid body, since N.D.P. lawmakers had to attend as well lest they be outvoted. The brothers formed a ''parliamentary kitchen'' with committees on various subjects; the committees, in turn, organized seminars to which outside experts were regularly invited. The Islamists formed a coalition with other opposition legislators, and with sympathetic members of the N.D.P., to protest the extension of emergency rule. They stood in solidarity with judges who were protesting growing infringements on their autonomy; hundreds of protesters, including some of the brotherhood's major figures, were arrested during several weeks of demonstrations in central Cairo. In an article in the journal Middle East Report, Joshua Stacher and Samer Shehata, a professor at Georgetown, concluded, ''Brotherhood M.P.'s are attempting to transform the Egyptian parliament into a real legislative body, as well as an institution that represents citizens and a mechanism that keeps government accountable.''
 Many members of Egypt's secular opposition remain deeply skeptical of the brotherhood, which they see as the regime's silent ally in blocking their hopes for an open, pluralist society. Egypt's ruling elite has, in turn, traditionally worried far more about the secular opposition than about the Islamists. Anwar el-Sadat, the president from 1970 to his assassination in 1981, made peace with religious forces by initiating a thoroughgoing Islamization of Egyptian society. Sadat rewrote the educational curriculum along religious lines and amended Article 2 of Egypt's extremely progressive constitution to stipulate that Shariah -- Islamic law -- was the ''main source'' of the nation's laws. Mubarak, who was Sadat's vice president, continued this practice. Some secularists fear that the brotherhood, perhaps in collaboration with the military, would establish an authoritarian theocracy. ''I have no doubt that they would implement Shariah if they ever came to power,'' says Hisham Kassem, a leading publisher in the progressive media. ''I see them as a menace.'' 
 But opinions are shifting. After holding a symposium on free speech, Negad al-Borai, a democracy activist and human rights lawyer, says that he received an emissary from the supreme guide. ''He came and said: 'We accept everything in your initiative as a beginning to the democratic process. The only thing we ask is that if issues arise where we wish to state our opposition according to our own views, we can have our own voice.' '' Al-Borai readily agreed, and the brotherhood endorsed untrammeled free speech. Saad Eddin Ibrahim, the Egyptian dissident most widely known in the West, says that the performance of the brotherhood's parliamentary bloc over the last year has allayed his own concerns. The regime, he says, is brandishing the Islamist threat in order ''to scare the foreigners and the middle class and the Copts'' Egypt's ancient Christian minority, who fear being treated as ''nonbelievers.''
 Indeed, since the 2005 election and the brotherhood's subsequent performance, the regime has turned the full force of its repressive energies on it. Last April and May, when brotherhood members demonstrated in solidarity with Egypt's judges, who had been seeking greater autonomy, security forces waded in, arresting hundreds of the brothers. The campaign of arrests resumed earlier this year, aiming at leading figures like Mahmoud Ghozlan, the Guidance Bureau member, as well as financiers; the government has frozen assets of brotherhood supporters said to amount to $2 billion. And there could be no mistaking the intent of the constitutional ''reforms'' submitted last December. Article 5, which lays the basis for the regulation of political parties, was rewritten to stipulate that ''political activity or political parties shall not be based on any religious background or foundation.'' This prohibition seemed to directly contradict the language of Article 2, which made Shariah the foundation of Egyptian law. How can a self-professed religious state prohibit political activity with a ''religious background''? When I posed this question to Hossam Badrawi, a leading member of a group of young politicians who profess to be reforming the N.D.P. from within, he asked me in return, ''If I go to Germany and I want to start a Nazi Party, would I be allowed to do that?'' 
 ''Is that a fair analogy?''
 ''Yes, because they don't respect the constitution, which lays out a separate role for politics and religion.'' Except that it doesn't or didn't, until just now. 
 This is the kind of language that, as Saad Eddin Ibrahim put it, is bound to scare foreigners and the middle class. President Mubarak has called the group a threat to national security. Mohamed Kamal, a political scientist who is close to Gamal Mubarak, the president's son and heir apparent, and who now serves as the N.D.P.'s semiofficial spokesman to the Western media, says of the brotherhood: ''They're fundamentalist in their ideology. I'm not saying necessarily that they're terrorists; they want to establish a religious state based on their interpretation of the Koran and the Shariah.'' While some of their leaders ''pay lip service to democracy, women's rights and so on,'' Kamal says, the grass roots are deeply reactionary.
 Is that so? One night I drove out to the far northeastern edge of Cairo -- a trip that took an hour and a half through the city's insane traffic -- to meet with Magdy Ashour, a member of the brotherhood's parliamentary bloc. The caucus is heavy with lawyers, doctors and professors, but Ashour is an electrician with a technical diploma. The neighborhood he represents, al-Nozha, is a squalid quarter of shattered buildings and dusty lanes. Ashour had established himself in what seemed to be the only substantial structure in the area, a half-completed apartment building; I walked through plaster dust and exposed wiring to reach his office. Ashour hurried in from the evening prayer. He was a solemn, square-jawed 41-year-old with short hair and unfashionable glasses, a brown suit and a brown tie. He grew up, he said, in the neighborhood, and as a young man often gave the Friday sermon at the local mosque. He joined the brotherhood when he was 23. Why? ''From my reading and my earliest meetings with brotherhood members,'' he said through a translator, ''I could see that they were moderate, that they don't impose their religion on people, but at the same time they're not loose with their religious principles.'' 
 I asked Ashour if the spate of arrests had him worried, and he said that he indeed feared that the state might be seeking an ''open confrontation'' with the brotherhood. Might not that provoke the group's supporters to violence? Ashour answered by citing an aphorism he attributed to the brotherhood's founder, Hassan al-Banna: ''Be like trees among the people: They strike you with stones, and you shower them with blessings.'' Ashour then embarked on a brief oration: ''We would like to change the idea people have of us in the West,'' he said, ''because when people hear the name Muslim Brotherhood, they think of terrorism and suicide bombings. We want to establish the perception of an Islamic group cooperating with other groups, concerned about human rights. We do not want a country like Iran, which thinks that it is ruling with a divine mandate. We want a government based on civil law with an Islamic source of lawmaking.'' If Magdy Ashour was a theocrat -- or a terrorist -- he was a very crafty one.
 s it has fully entered the political arena, the brotherhood has been forced to come up with clear answers on issues about which it has been notably ambiguous in the past. Some are easy enough: There seems to be little appetite among them for stoning adulterers or lopping off the hands of thieves; and all deprecate the jizya, or tax on nonbelievers, as a relic of an era when only Muslims served in the military. Some are not so easy. I asked Magdy Ashour about the drinking of alcohol, which is prohibited in Saudi Arabia, Iran and other Islamic states. He was quite unfazed. ''There is a concept in Shariah that if you commit the sin in private it's different from committing it in public,'' he explained. You can drink in a hotel, but not in the street. This was flexibility verging on pragmatism. I wondered if Ashour, and the other brotherhood candidates, had offered such nuanced judgments on the stump; a number of detractors insist that the group's campaign rhetoric was much more unabashedly Islamist.
 There are, of course, more fundamental questions. In the course of a three-hour conversation in the brotherhood's extremely modest office in an apartment building in one of Cairo's residential neighborhoods, I asked Muhammad Habib, the deputy supreme guide, how the brotherhood would react if the Legislature passed a law that violated Shariah. ''The People's Assembly has the absolute right in that situation,'' he said, ''as long as it is elected in a free and fair election which manifests the people's will. The Parliament could go to religious scholars and hear their opinion'' -- as it could seek the advice of economists on economic matters -- ''but it is not obliged to listen to these opinions.'' Some consider grave moral issues, like homosexual marriage, beyond the pale of majoritarianism; others make no such exception. Hassan al-Banna famously wrote that people are the source of authority. This can be understood, if you wish to, as the Islamic version of the democratic credo.
 The acceptance of democracy is itself a proxy for something else -- the repudiation of violence and terrorism. Here the brotherhood has a fair amount of history to answer for. The organization was established in 1928 in the wake of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's secularization of Turkey and his abolition of the caliphate, the line of religious rulers that stretched back to the Prophet Muhammad. Hassan al-Banna, the charismatic founder, aspired to revitalize the spirit of Islam among the umma, the worldwide body of believers, and ultimately to restore the caliphate and Shariah. But for all al-Banna's emphasis on peaceful evangelizing, he also created a paramilitary wing, like Mussolini's brown shirts, known as al-nizam al-khas -- the Special Apparatus. During the '40s, when Egyptians fought to free themselves from British rule, brotherhood operatives engaged in a campaign of bombings and assassinations. The organization was banned in 1948; soon afterward, a member of the group assassinated Egypt's prime minister. Al-Banna denounced the deed, but he was himself murdered by government security forces. And when a brotherhood plot to assassinate Gamal Abdel Nasser miscarried, most of the leading figures were jailed and tortured. 
 In 1964, the most prominent of the jailed leaders, Sayyid Qutb, produced a tract, ''Milestones,'' which magnified the militant side of the brotherhood and rejected al-Banna's faith in the merits of instruction and moral example. Islamic regimes that failed to establish Shariah were apostates, he declared no better than the infidels themselves. Egypt was, of course, just such a state. ''Milestones'' was read as a call to revolution. Qutb was sentenced to death and hanged in 1966, making him a martyr throughout the Middle East. Among his disciples were the radical Islamists who conspired to murder Sadat in 1981 including Ayman al-Zawahiri, now Al Qaeda's second in command. Osama bin Laden was deeply influenced by Qutb's works and regularly attended lectures given by Qutb's younger brother, Muhammad. ''Milestones'' is now considered the founding manifesto of jihadism. 
 Qutb remains a heroic figure for many Egyptians. But Ibrahim Hudaybi, the young activist who sent me the text message about the arrest, pointed out to me when we met the next day that his own grandfather, Hasan Hudaybi, who replaced al-Banna as supreme guide and was jailed along with Qutb, wrote a book from prison, ''Preachers, Not Judges,'' designed to reassert the brotherhood's commitment to peace and to open debate. Hudaybi was a thoroughly modern figure; we met in a coffee shop near the American University in Cairo, where he recently received his master's in political science. He was now working as a business consultant. Hudaybi wanted to see the brotherhood deal explicitly with the legacy of Qutb, even if doing so might not play well in the hustings. Other, more senior figures I spoke to insisted rather implausibly that Qutb had been misunderstood; but all swore by the philosophy of tolerance and the program of gradual reform laid out in ''Preachers, Not Judges.'' 
 The brotherhood is an international organization. It has, however, no Comintern, no central apparatus. In Sudan, brotherhood members have formed an alliance with a deeply authoritarian ruling party. The brotherhood in Jordan and Morocco is considered relatively moderate. But in the Palestinian territories, the organization mutated into Hamas. Policy makers and academics in the West tend to be more concerned with the brotherhood's views of Hamas than with its understanding of Shariah. And here there is little satisfaction to be had. When I asked Muhammad Habib about Hamas attacks on Israeli civilians, he said, ''With the continuous crackdown and ongoing war launched by the Israeli Army, which does not distinguish between civilians and noncivilians, you cannot speak about the Palestinians disregarding Israeli citizens.'' Brotherhood figures do not, at bottom, accept Israel's right to exist. Seif al-Islam, the son of Hassan al-Banna and a venerated elder of the group, said to me, in his stylized version of English: ''Not any Palestine man or Egypt man feels that Jews who come from the outside have the right to stay in Palestine. At the same time, the Palestinian people on the outside cannot have a grave to bury in. This is not religion.'' 
 The more worldly among the brotherhood's legislators and thinkers understand that Israel is a test just as Qutb is a test, and that the Western audience matters even if it doesn't vote. Hazem Farouk Mansour, a dentist who is the head of the foreign-policy committee of the parliamentary bloc, says of Camp David, ''We accept it as an agreement, whether we like it or not.'' Essam el-Erian, a clinical pathologist who is head of the brotherhood's political committee and perhaps its most sophisticated thinker, said to me: ''Look, this is a historical and ideological and religious crisis. It cannot be solved in a few years. Every part in this conflict can be put forth for dialogue.'' Like virtually all of his colleagues, el-Erian urged me not to get too hung up on this or any other question of what the brotherhood might do in some unimaginably remote future in which the regime had somehow relinquished its grip on power. ''We can solve the problem of our society,'' he said, ''to have democratic reform respected by Europeans and Americans, whatever happens to the Palestinians.'' 
 From what I could tell, in fact, the brotherhood in its public oratory sticks to issues of political process, while voters worry about the kind of mundane issues that preoccupy people everywhere. Magdy Ashour said that few voters knew or cared anything about issues like constitutional reform. He agreed to let me sit by his side one evening as he met with constituents. None of the dozen or so petitioners who were ushered into the tiny, bare cell of his office asked about the political situation, and none had any complaints about cultural or moral issues. Rather, there were heart-rending stories of abuse by the powerful, like the profoundly palsied young man confined to a wheelchair who sold odds and ends from a kiosk under a bridge, and who was ejected, along with his meager goods, when a road-improvement project came through. (Ashour promised to go with him to the police station the following morning.) Mostly, though, people wanted help getting a job. One ancient gentleman with a white turban and walking stick wandered in as if from the Old Testament. He was accompanied by his daughter and 3-year-old granddaughter. His daughter's husband had abandoned her, and she needed a job. Ashour explained that since the woman had a business degree, she might find work in a private school.
 The old man shook his head. ''She must have a government job,'' he said. ''She has three girls. I am too old to take care of her. She needs security.'' Ashour later explained to me that while a private job might pay $90 a month and a public one only $35, the government job would carry a guaranteed $15 pension, which felt like insurance against destitution. Only a government job was considered real; Ashour himself had worked as the superintendent for lighting infrastructure for a portion of Cairo. Nasser caught the bug of socialism half a century earlier, and the government continued to dominate the economy and to sap the energies needed for private initiative. Egypt's arthritic economy and its deeply corrupt public administration were much more salient problems for Ashour than was, say, debauchery on TV. 
 arrived in Cairo in the middle of a heated national debate over Mubarak's proposed reform of the constitution. During the presidential campaign, Mubarak promised to reduce his own powers in favor of the Legislature and the cabinet and to loosen restrictions on political parties. Only trace elements of those vows remained; in fact, the reforms seemed designed to consolidate, rather than dissipate, the regime's authority. Article 88, which had stipulated that elections be held ''under the supervision of members of the judiciary authority,'' now granted that control to ''a higher commission marked by independence and impartiality.'' Since no such bodies had been known to exist in Egypt, few figures outside the ruling party were willing to take the proposal at face value. And a new anti-terrorism provision allowed the state to set aside civil liberties enumerated elsewhere in the constitution in the pursuit of suspected terrorists. Mohamed Kamal described this measure to me as the equivalent of the USA Patriot Act, but political activists are convinced that it will be used to snuff out opposition. (The brotherhood may be the chief target, since the regime regards it as a quasi-terrorist body.) Amnesty International described the package as the gravest threat to human rights in Egypt since Mubarak took power.
 In mid-March, on the day the proposed amendments were presented to the People's Assembly, the brotherhood legislators and the dozen or so members of the secular opposition staged a joint protest. The entire group stood silently inside the gates of Parliament wearing black sashes that read, ''No to the Constitutional Amendments,'' and carrying signs that read, ''No to Electoral Fraud,'' ''No to Dawn Visitors'' and so on. The muezzin's call led to an interval of prayer, and then legislators squeezed one by one through the gates, backing the scrum of reporters and photographers into a busy two-way street. Drivers honked furiously while legislators struggled to be heard over the din. I had the impression that the brotherhood hadn't yet gotten the hang of press relations. 
 The entire opposition boycotted the debate; the regime, unimpressed, carried the day with the near-unanimous support of the N.D.P. and then scheduled the mandatory national referendum for the following week, presumably to prevent the opposition from mobilizing. But the tactic failed; opposition legislators urged supporters to boycott the ballot. All of the brotherhood legislators I spoke to that day said that the polling places in their constituency were literally empty. Civic groups canvassing Cairo and other major cities came to the same conclusion. Estimates of turnout varied from 2 to 8 percent. When it was over, government officials pegged turnout at 27 percent -- a figure so improbable that it scarcely seemed intended to be believed. Perhaps the implicit message was that the regime didn't care if it was believed or not.
 In June 2005, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice delivered a landmark address at the American University in Cairo in which she bluntly declared, ''The day must come when the rule of law replaces emergency decrees and when the independent judiciary replaces arbitrary justice.'' Egypt's democracy activists were enthralled -- though they were to become increasingly disappointed, and then embittered, as the administration offered no public response to Mubarak's crackdown. But Rice's call to the political barricades was carefully modulated, perhaps in order to limit the offense to the regime. Asked after the speech about the Muslim Brotherhood, Rice said flatly, ''We have not engaged the Muslim Brotherhood and . . . we won't.'' In fact, American diplomats had been in regular contact with brotherhood officials over the years; Rice was declaring -- in fact, making -- a new policy. And that policy still largely obtains. Rice's spokesman, Sean McCormack, told me, ''We do not meet with the Muslim Brotherhood per se, as we don't want to get entangled in complexities surrounding its legality as a political party.'' He added, however, ''Consistent with our practice elsewhere, we will nonetheless meet with any duly elected member of the parliamentary opposition.'' In fact, American officials in Cairo included leading brotherhood parliamentarians in a group of legislators who met recently with Representative Steny Hoyer, the Democratic majority leader of the House.
 But why not engage the brotherhood openly? Is what is gained by mollifying the Mubarak regime worth what is lost by forgoing contact with the brotherhood? ''Americans,'' Essam el-Erian said to me, ''must have channels with all the people, not only in politics, but in economics, in social, in everything, if they want to change the image of America in the region.'' Of course, that principle applies only up to a point. The administration has, understandably, refused to recognize the democratic bona fides either of Hamas or of Hezbollah in Lebanon. But the Muslim Brotherhood, for all its rhetorical support of Hamas, could well be precisely the kind of moderate Islamic body that the administration says it seeks. And as with Islamist parties in Turkey and Morocco, the experience of practical politics has made the brotherhood more pragmatic, less doctrinaire. Finally, foreign policy is no longer a rarefied game of elites: public opinion shapes the world within which policy makers operate, and the refusal to deal with Hamas or Hezbollah has made publics in the Islamic world dismiss the whole idea of democracy promotion. Even a wary acceptance of the brotherhood, by contrast, would demonstrate that we take seriously the democratic preferences of Arab voters. 
 In general, I found the brothers deeply suspicious of American designs in the world but also curious about America itself. When I took my leave of Magdy Ashour once the crowd of petitioners thinned out, he asked if he could pose some questions of his own. ''I've heard,'' he said, ''that even George Bush's mother thinks he's an idiot; is that true?'' And, ''Why did George Bush say that America is going on a Christian crusade against the Muslim people?'' And finally, ''Is it true that the Jews control and manipulate the U.S. economy?'' These are, alas, the kinds of questions -- with the possible exception of the first -- that people all over the Middle East ask. 
 Then Ashour said that he was thinking about visiting America. I asked how he could afford such an expensive journey, and he explained that the brotherhood has offered each legislator one free trip anywhere in the world -- a remarkable program for an organization said to be bent on returning Egypt to the Middle Ages. ''I would,'' Ashour said, ''like to see for myself.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article on Page 44 of The Times Magazine today about the Muslim Brotherhood misstates the dates of the photographs. The protest with brandishing of the Koran, in the first and fourth pictures, was in March of this year, not the fall of 2006. The other two photographs were taken in February of this year (the protester surrounded by the police) and in November 2006 (the protesters holding signs), not the in the spring of this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nay Sayed Askar, a Muslim Brotherhood member of the Egyptian Parliament, voices dissent.
 Raising Their Voices Brotherhood members brandishing the Koran (fall 2006) and protesting what they consider repressive measures in Cairo (spring 2007). (Photographs by Nasser Nuri/Reuters/Newscom. Second From Left: Amr Dalsh/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); MILITARY COURTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



604 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: As Saudi Steps Surprise U.S., A Prince Is Sounding Off-Key

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JIM RUTENBERG; Michael Slackman and Hassan M. Fattah contributed from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
No foreign diplomat has been closer or had more access to President Bush, his family and his administration than the magnetic and fabulously wealthy Prince Bandar bin Sultan of Saudi Arabia.
 Prince Bandar has mentored Mr. Bush and his father through three wars and the broader campaign against terrorism, reliably delivering -- sometimes in the Oval Office -- his nation's support for crucial Middle East initiatives dependent on the regional legitimacy the Saudis could bring, as well as timely warnings of Saudi regional priorities that might put it into apparent conflict with the United States. Even after his 22-year term as Saudi ambassador ended in 2005, he still seemed the insider's insider. But now, current and former Bush administration officials are wondering if the longtime reliance on him has begun to outlive its usefulness.
Bush administration officials have been scratching their heads over steps taken by Prince Bandar's uncle, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, that have surprised them by going against the American playbook, after receiving assurances to the contrary from Prince Bandar during secret trips he made to Washington. 
 For instance, in February, King Abdullah effectively torpedoed plans by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice for a high-profile peace summit meeting between Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel and the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, by brokering a power-sharing agreement with Mr. Abbas's Fatah and Hamas that did not require Hamas to recognize Israel or forswear violence. The Americans had believed, after discussions with Prince Bandar, that the Saudis were on board with the strategy of isolating Hamas. 
 American officials also believed, again after speaking with Prince Bandar, that the Saudis might agree to direct engagement with Israel as part of a broad American plan to jump-start Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. King Abdullah countermanded that plan. 
 Most bitingly, during a speech before Arab heads of state in Riyadh three weeks ago, the king condemned the American invasion of Iraq as ''an illegal foreign occupation.'' The Bush administration, caught off guard, was infuriated, and administration officials have found Prince Bandar hard to reach since. 
 Since the Iraq war and the attendant plummeting of America's image in the Muslim world, King Abdullah has been striving to set a more independent and less pro-American course, American and Arab officials said. And that has steered America's relationship with its staunchest Arab ally into uncharted waters. Prince Bandar, they say, may no longer be able to serve as an unerring beacon of Saudi intent. 
 ''The problem is that Bandar has been pursuing a policy that was music to the ears of the Bush administration, but was not what King Abdullah had in mind at all,'' said Martin S. Indyk, a former United States ambassador to Israel who is now head of the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for Middle East Policy.
 Of course it is ultimately the king -- and not the prince -- who makes the final call on policy. More than a dozen associates of Prince Bandar, including personal friends and Saudi officials who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that if his counsel has led to the recent misunderstandings, it is due to his longtime penchant for leaving room in his dispatches for friends to hear what they want to hear. That approach, they said, is catching up to the prince as new tensions emerge between the United States and Saudi Arabia.
 Mr. Bandar, son of one of the powerful seven sons born to the favorite wife of Saudi Arabia's founding king, ''needs to personally regroup and figure out how to put Humpty Dumpty together again,'' one associate said.
 Robert Jordan, a former Bush administration ambassador to Saudi Arabia, said the Saudis' mixed signals have come at a time when King Abdullah -- who has ruled the country since 1995 but became king only in 2005 after the death of his brother, Fahd -- has said he does not want to go down in history as Mr. Bush's Arab Tony Blair. ''I think he feels the need as a kind of emerging leader of the Arab world right now to maintain a distance,'' he said. 
 Mr. Jordan said that although the United States and Saudi Arabia ''have different views on how to get there,'' the countries still share the same long-term goals for the region and remain at heart strong allies. 
 An administration spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said none of the current issues threatened the relationship. ''We may have differences on issues now and then,'' he said, ''but we remain close allies.''
 Or, as Saleh al-Kallab, a former minister of information in Jordan, put it, ''The relationship between the United States and the Arab regimes is like a Catholic marriage where you can have no divorce.''
 But there can be separation. And several associates of Prince Bandar acknowledge that he feels caught between the opposing pressure of the king and that of his close friends in the Bush administration. It is a relationship that Prince Bandar has fostered with great care and attention to detail over the years, making himself practically indispensable to Mr. Bush, his family and his aides.
 A few nights after he resigned his post as secretary of state two years ago, Colin L. Powell answered a ring at his front door. Standing outside was Prince Bandar, then Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States, with a 1995 Jaguar. Mr. Powell's wife, Alma, had once mentioned that she missed their 1995 Jaguar, which she and her husband had traded in. Prince Bandar had filed that information away, and presented the Powells that night with an identical, 10-year-old model. The Powells kept the car -- a gift that the State Department said was legal -- but recently traded it away. 
 The move was classic Bandar, who has been referred to as Bandar Bush, attending birthday celebrations, sending notes in times of personal crisis and entertaining the Bushes or top administration officials at sumptuous dinner parties at Prince Bandar's opulent homes in McLean, Va., and Aspen, Colo. 
 He has invited top officials to pizza and movies out at a mall in suburban Virginia -- and then rented out the movie theater (candy served chair-side, in a wagon) and the local Pizza Hut so he and his guests could enjoy themselves in solitude. He is said to feel a strong sense of loyalty toward Mr. Bush's father dating to the Persian Gulf war, which transferred to the son, whom he counseled about international diplomacy during Mr. Bush's first campaign for president.
 After the Sept. 11 attacks, as the United States learned that 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi and focused on the strict Wahhabi school of Islam that informed them and their leader and fellow Saudi, Osama bin Laden, Prince Bandar took a public role in assuring the Americans that his nation would cooperate in investigating and combating anti-American terrorism. He also helped arrange for more than a hundred members of the bin Laden family to be flown out of the United States. 
 Even since he left the Saudi ambassador's post in Washington and returned to Saudi Arabia two years ago, Prince Bandar has continued his long courtship, over decades, of the Bush family and Vice President Dick Cheney, flying into Washington for unofficial meetings at the White House. He cruises in without consulting the Saudi Embassy in Washington, where miffed officials have sometimes said they had no idea that he was in town -- a perceived slight that contributed to the resignation of his cousin Prince Turki al-Faisal as ambassador to the United States last year. He has been succeeded by Adel al-Jubeir, who is said to have strong support from the king.
 Prince Turki was never able to match the role of Prince Bandar, whom the president, vice president and other officials regularly consult on every major Middle East initiative -- from the approach to Iran to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process to Iraq. Prince Bandar played a crucial role in securing the use of the Prince Sultan Air Base at Al Kharj, roughly 70 miles outside Riyadh, in the attacks led by the United States against Afghanistan and Iraq, despite chafing within his government.
 He helped in the negotiations that led to Libya giving up its weapons programs, a victory for Mr. Bush. He pledged to protect the world economy from oil shocks after the invasion, the White House said in 2004, but he denied a report, by the author Bob Woodward, that he had promised to stabilize oil prices in time for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign.
 The cause of the latest friction in the American-Saudi relationship began in 2003, before the invasion of Iraq. The Saudis agreed with the Bush view of Saddam Hussein as a threat, but voiced concern about post-invasion contingencies and the fate of the Sunni minority. When it became clear that the administration was committed to invading Iraq, Prince Bandar took a lead role in negotiations between the Bush administration and Saudi officials over securing bases and staging grounds.
 But Saudi frustration has mounted over the past four years, as the situation in Iraq has deteriorated. King Abdullah was angry that the Bush administration ignored his advice against de-Baathification and the disbanding of the Iraqi military. He became more frustrated as America's image in the Muslim world deteriorated, because Saudi Arabia is viewed as a close American ally. 
 Tensions between King Abdullah and top Bush officials escalated further when Mr. Bush announced a new energy initiative to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil during his 2006 State of the Union address, and announced new initiatives in that direction this year. 
 Both American and Saudi officials say that King Abdullah clearly values -- and uses -- Prince Bandar's close relationship with the White House. And that, associates said, will dictate what Prince Bandar can do. 
 ''Don't expect the man, because he happens to have an American background, not to play the game for his home team,'' said William Simpson, Prince Bandar's biographer, and a former classmate at the Royal Air Force College in England. ''The home team is Saudi Arabia.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Saudi Prince Bandar bin Sultan. (pg. 1)
 King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in Riyadh in March, during a meeting of Arab heads of state in which he called the United States presence in Iraq ''an illegal foreign occupation,'' infuriating the White House. (Photo by Awad Awad/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%) Fatah; Hamas

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (56%) Helene Cooper; Jim Rutenberg; Bandar Bin Sultan (Prince); Abdullah (King of Saudi Arabia); George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (92%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%) Saudi Arabia; Israel; Iraq; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



605 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: GLOBAL COOLNESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Carbon-Neutral Is Hip, But Is It Green?

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
THE rush to go on a carbon diet, even if by proxy, is in overdrive. 
 In addition to the celebrities -- Leo, Brad, George -- politicians like John Edwards and Hillary Clinton are now running, at least part of the time, carbon-neutral campaigns. A lengthening list of big businesses -- international banks, London's taxi fleet, luxury airlines -- also claim ''carbon neutrality.'' Silverjet, a plush new trans-Atlantic carrier, bills itself as the first fully carbon-neutral airline. It puts about $28 of each round-trip ticket into a fund for global projects that, in theory, squelch as much carbon dioxide as the airline generates -- about 1.2 tons per passenger, the airline says.
Also, a largely unregulated carbon-cutting business has sprung up. In this market, consultants or companies estimate a person's or company's output of greenhouse gases. Then, these businesses sell ''offsets,'' which pay for projects elsewhere that void or sop up an equal amount of emissions -- say, by planting trees or, as one new company proposes, fertilizing the ocean so algae can pull the gas out of the air. Recent counts by Business Week magazine and several environmental watchdog groups tally the trade in offsets at more than $100 million a year and growing blazingly fast. 
 But is the carbon-neutral movement just a gimmick?
 On this, environmentalists aren't neutral, and they don't agree. Some believe it helps build support, but others argue that these purchases don't accomplish anything meaningful -- other than giving someone a slightly better feeling (or greener reputation) after buying a 6,000-square-foot house or passing the million-mile mark in a frequent-flier program. In fact, to many environmentalists, the carbon-neutral campaign is a sign of the times -- easy on the sacrifice and big on the consumerism.
 As long as the use of fossil fuels keeps climbing -- which is happening relentlessly around the world -- the emission of greenhouse gases will keep rising. The average American, by several estimates, generates more than 20 tons of carbon dioxide or related gases a year; the average resident of the planet about 4.5 tons.
 At this rate, environmentalists say, buying someone else's squelched emissions is all but insignificant. 
 ''The worst of the carbon-offset programs resemble the Catholic Church's sale of indulgences back before the Reformation,'' said Denis Hayes, the president of the Bullitt Foundation, an environmental grant-making group. ''Instead of reducing their carbon footprints, people take private jets and stretch limos, and then think they can buy an indulgence to forgive their sins.''
 ''This whole game is badly in need of a modern Martin Luther,'' Mr. Hayes added. 
 Some environmental campaigners defend this marketplace as a legitimate, if imperfect, way to support an environmental ethic and political movement, even if the numbers don't all add up.
 ''We can't stop global warming with voluntary offsets, but they offer an option for individuals looking for a way to contribute to the solution in addition to reducing their own emissions and urging their elected representatives to support good policy,'' said Daniel A. Lashof, the science director of the climate center at the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
 But he and others agree that more oversight is needed. Voluntary standards and codes of conduct are evolving in Europe and the United States to ensure that a ton of carbon dioxide purchased is actually a ton of carbon dioxide avoided. 
 The first attempt at an industry report card, commissioned by the environmental group Clean Air/Cool Planet (which has some involvement in the business), gave decidedly mixed reviews to the field, selecting eight sellers of carbon offsets that it concluded were reasonably reliable. 
 But the report, ''A Consumer's Guide to Retail Carbon-Offset Providers,'' concluded that this market was no different than any other, saying, ''if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is.''
 Prices vary widely for offsetting the carbon dioxide tonnage released by a long plane flight, S.U.V. commute or energy-hungry house. The report suggested that the cheapest offsets may not be legitimate. 
 For example, depending on where you shop for carbon credits, avoiding the ton of carbon dioxide released by driving a midsize car about 2,000 miles could cost $5 or $25, according to data in the report.
 Mr. Hayes said there were legitimate companies and organizations that help people and companies measure their emissions and find ways to cut them, both directly and indirectly by purchasing certain kinds of credits. But overall, he said, an investment in such credits -- given the questions about their reliability -- should be looked at more as conventional charity (presuming you check to be sure the projects are real) and less as something like a license to binge on private jet travel.
 In many ways, the carbon-neutral campaign mimics other efforts that use markets to save the environment. For nearly two decades, for example, forest protection groups have disputed the merits of ''certified'' tropical hardwood and other products that manufacturers claim are harvested in ways that don't imperil virgin forests. 
 Some environmentalists say it's better to offer some income to those who use forests in a renewable way. But others insist that instead of trying to police the trade by rooting our fraudulent planks, it's better to avoid the timber altogether. Only one of many forest certification programs, run by the Forest Stewardship Council, has been widely endorsed by environmental groups.
 Michael R. Solomon, the author of ''Consumer Behavior: Buying, Having and Being'' and a professor at Auburn University, said he was not surprised by the allure of the carbon-offsetting market. 
 ''Consumers are always going to gravitate toward a more parsimonious solution that requires less behavioral change,'' he said. ''We know that new products or ideas are more likely to be adopted if they don't require us to alter our routines very much.''
 But he said there was danger ahead, ''if we become trained to substitute dollars for deeds -- kind of an 'I gave at the office' prescription for the environment.''
 Charles Komanoff, an energy economist in New York, said the commercial market in climate neutrality could have even more harmful effects. 
 It could, by suggesting there's an easy way out, blunt public support for what will really be needed in the long run, he said: a binding limit on emissions or a tax on the fuels that generate greenhouse gases. 
 ''There isn't a single American household above the poverty line that couldn't cut their CO2 at least 25 percent in six months through a straightforward series of fairly simple and terrifically cost-effective measures,'' he said.
 Jonathan Shopley, the chief executive of Britain's CarbonNeutral Company, which does only 5 percent of its offsetting directly for individuals and the rest for businesses, insisted that the voluntary markets fill a vital gap. 
 This is particularly true, he said, because laws or treaties, like the Kyoto Protocol, that have mandatory limits on greenhouse gases have so far failed to blunt the relentless global rise in such emissions. 
 ''That isn't going to get us where we need to go,'' Mr. Shopley said. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ron Barrett) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (71%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (66%); RELIGION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) Weather; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Weather

COMPANY: SILVERJET PLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (72%) Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



606 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Grim Old Party

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
At the University of Chicago there's a group of scholars who are members of what is called the Rational Expectations school of economics. They believe human beings tend to anticipate unpleasant future events and seek in advance to avoid them. Their teachings do not apply to the Republican Party.
 The Republicans suffered one unpleasant event in November 2006, and they are headed toward an even nastier one in 2008. The Democrats have opened up a wide advantage in party identification and are crushing the G.O.P. among voters under 30. 
 Moreover, there has been a clear shift, in poll after poll, away from Republican positions on social issues and on attitudes toward government. Democratic approaches are favored on almost all domestic, tax and fiscal issues, and even on foreign affairs. 
 The public, in short, wants change. 
 And yet the Republicans refuse to offer that. On Capitol Hill, there is a strange passivity in Republican ranks. Republicans are privately disgusted with how President Bush has led their party and the nation, but they don't publicly offer any alternatives. They just follow sullenly along. They privately believe the country needs new approaches to the war against Islamic extremism, but they don't offer them. They try to block Democratic initiatives, but they don't offer the country any new ways to think about the G.O.P. 
 They are like people quietly marching to their doom. 
 And at the presidential level, things are even worse. The party is blessed with a series of charismatic candidates who are not orthodox Republicans. But the pressures of the campaign are such that these candidates have had to repress anything that might make them interesting. Instead of offering something new, each of them has been going around pretending to be the second coming of George Allen -- a bland, orthodox candidate who will not challenge any of the party's customs or prejudices. 
 Mitt Romney created an interesting health care reform, but he's suppressing that in an effort to pretend to be George Allen. Rudy Giuliani has an unusual profile that won him a majority of votes on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, of all places, but he's suppressing that to be George Allen. John McCain has a record on taxes and spending that suggests he really could take on entitlements. But at least until last week, he suppressed that in order not to offend the George Allen vote.
 And just in case any of these George Allen wannabes weren't George Allen enough for voters, Fred Thompson may enter the race as the Authentic Conservative, even though deep in his heart he's no more George Allen than the rest of them. 
 The big question is, Why are the Republicans so immobile? 
 There are several reasons. First, there are structural barriers to change. As it has aged, the conservative movement has grown a collection of special interest groups that restrict its mobility. Anybody who offers unorthodox tax policies gets whacked by the Club for Growth and Americans for Tax Reform. Anybody who offers unorthodox social policies gets whacked by James Dobson.
 Second, there is the corrupting influence of teamism. Being a good conservative now means sticking together with other conservatives, not thinking new and adventurous thoughts. Those who stray from the reservation are accused of selling out to the mainstream media by the guardians of conservative correctness.
 Third, there is the oppressive power of the past. Conservatives have allowed a simplistic view of Ronald Reagan to define the sacred parameters of thought. Reagan himself was flexible, unorthodox and creative. But conservatives have created a mythical, rigid Reagan, and any deviation from that is considered unholy.
 Fourth, there is the bunker mentality. Republican morale has been brutalized by the Iraq war and the party's decline. This state of emotional pain is not conducive to risk-taking and free and open debate.
 In sum, Republicans know they need to change, but they have closed off all the avenues for change. 
 The tale is not entirely hopeless. McCain seems now to be throwing off his yoke. Newt Gingrich is way ahead of his colleagues when it comes to new ideas and policies. The libertarians and paleoconservatives have been losing for so long they are suddenly quite interesting. There are even a few of us who think it is time to revive the Alexander Hamilton-Theodore Roosevelt legacy. 
 Change could, miraculously, come soon. But the odds are it will take a few more crushing defeats before Republicans tear down the self-imposed walls that confine them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (51%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); FRED THOMPSON (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



607 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Bush Asks Florida Graduates To Back Immigration Change

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 28 

 BODY:
President Bush used a speech to mostly Hispanic graduates of Miami Dade College on Saturday to press for an overhaul of immigration law, calling for changes that ''resolve the status of those who are already here without amnesty, and without animosity.'' 
 Mr. Bush urged the 1,500 students, many of whom were born in other countries, to join the national debate on immigration policy, saying they ''see every day the values of hard work and family and faith that immigrants bring'' and so should make their voices heard.
Nearly 80 percent of graduates at the college's campus in Kendall, where Mr. Bush spoke, are Hispanic; many are Cuban-American. Mr. Bush got a standing ovation and fervent applause, even as hundreds of protesters waved signs along the perimeter of the suburban campus opposing the war and calling for the president's impeachment. 
 Mr. Bush's younger brother, former Gov. Jeb Bush, came to hear him speak, along with Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, and several Cuban-American members of the state's Congressional delegation.
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Bush discussed immigration in his weekly radio address, calling on Congress to reach agreement on the ''critical challenge'' of improving immigration laws. Administration officials estimate that 12 million illegal immigrants are in the United States, and that the number has been growing by an average of 400,000 a year.
 Mr. Bush is trying to bring both parties together on immigration legislation, even as he is fighting with Democrats over Iraq. He wants to create a temporary worker program and a way for some illegal immigrants already here to legalize their status, while stepping up border patrol. 
 ''We need a system where our laws are respected,'' Mr. Bush told the graduates. ''We need a system that meets the legitimate needs of our economy. And we need a system that treats people with dignity and helps newcomers assimilate into our society. 
 ''We must address all elements of this problem together, or none of them will be solved at all. And we must do it in a way that learns from the mistakes that caused previous reforms to fail.''
 Miami Dade is the largest community college in the nation, and only the second community college where a sitting president has given a commencement address. Christopher Miles, president of the student government association at the Kendall campus, told Mr. Bush the school was nicknamed ''Democracy's College,'' and said more than half the graduates were the first in their families to enter higher education.
 Though Mr. Bush received the warmest of welcomes, some faculty members wore green and white ribbons on their robes to advocate an end to the war.
 Before Mr. Bush spoke, the names of every nation that the graduates hailed from were announced, with Cuba, Colombia, Nicaragua and Venezuela drawing some of the heartiest cheers.
 As he has often done when visiting Miami, Mr. Bush criticized Cuba, where he said ''the opportunity to participate in an open debate does not exist.'' He also alluded to Fidel Castro's recent illness, saying the day is nearing when ''the light of liberty will shine'' on Cuba.
 ''The reign of every tyrant comes to an end,'' Mr. Bush said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); AMNESTY (77%); FAMILY (76%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); BORDER CONTROL (65%) Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: Miami Dade College

PERSON: MEL MARTINEZ (59%) Abby Goodnough; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



608 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: High Stakes in the Catskills

BYLINE: By Kim Elliman and Nathan Berry. 
Kim Elliman is the chief executive of the Open Space Institute, a land conservation organization. Nathan Berry is his assistant.

 BODY:
EARLIER this year, Gov. Eliot Spitzer reached an agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe that brought New York one step closer to having a $600 million Las Vegas-style casino in Sullivan County, in the Catskills. The casino, which still needs final federal approval and faces a lawsuit from environmental groups, could generate up to $100 million for the state and $20 million for the county a year. 
 But the economic and environmental downside of this deal needs to be more carefully examined. Particularly worrisome is the casino's planned location within 12 miles of the Catskill Park and New York City's (and parts of Westchester's) water supply. 
The casino is the governor's first major upstate economic development initiative. While it demonstrates his desire to see the Catskills prosper, it raises serious questions about his pre-election commitment to smart growth.
 If approved, the casino will be 85 miles north of New York City, practically on the border of the 700,000-acre Catskill Park, of which 41 percent, or 290,000 acres, has been acquired by the state, with most of the rest privately owned. Unfortunately, there is no regional land-use authority to control development on private lands, which jeopardizes the area's water quality and ecological integrity. 
 Perhaps even more dire is the threat the casino would pose to New York City's water supply, the largest unfiltered water system in the United States and the source of 90 percent of the city's drinking water. The city has spent billions of dollars to maintain and improve water quality, which thus far has allowed it to avoid the crippling cost of filtration. Yet today the water supply is in danger, in large part because of development and its associated pollution. Further degradation would require the city to construct a huge filtration plant that would cost as much as $10 billion and push water rates up 50 percent. 
 It is clear that the governor cares about the economic vitality of places like Sullivan County, but there are other ways to help that do not jeopardize such important recreational and natural resources. 
 Many people fondly recall the Borscht Belt era of the 1950s and '60s, when Jewish summer camps and resorts thrived in the Catskills. Those who wish to romanticize those years should remember that the resorts' success stemmed from the area's natural charms: its rolling farmland, its mountains and streams. 
 And despite the decline of the Borscht Belt resorts and counter to popular perceptions of the Catskills and the state of its economy, Sullivan County has recently experienced strong economic and population growth. Its unemployment and poverty rates are below the state average, and only a handful of New York's 62 counties have witnessed a bigger housing boom. What's driving this growth? The region's natural resources and beauty. The governor and Sullivan County officials need to approach Catskill development by recognizing that economic prosperity can arise from protecting natural resources. 
 Instead of building a casino, the governor should promote a regional approach to development similar to those used in other resource-rich places like the Pine Barrens on Long Island. With or without a casino, the Catskills' natural resources need to be inventoried, and then a plan should be devised to safeguard those resources. Concentrating growth in downtown areas and redeveloping already built sites should be encouraged, while sprawling growth in outlying areas not served by community wastewater treatment facilities, roads and other infrastructure should be strongly discouraged. 
 More specifically, the governor should provide tax and other incentives to local governments in the Catskills to adopt zoning regulations that protect scenic and recreational areas. Development is now allowed practically everywhere, including in floodplains and on ridge lines. Smart zoning would preclude development that ruins views, pollutes water and makes floods more damaging.
 He should also establish a program to compensate landowners in natural resource-rich areas who give up their land's development rights or transfer those rights to an area that is already developed and has the capacity for more growth.
 Farms and forests are not only an important part of community character, they also contribute to the tax base while requiring few public services -- cows and trees don't go to school. In recent decades, we have seen increased fragmentation and development of these working lands as small-scale farming and forestry have become less profitable. To counter that trend, Governor Spitzer should support farmers and foresters through market incentives, tax abatement and subsidies. 
 And finally, the governor should encourage ecotourism by having the state acquire key parcels of land in the Catskill Park, expand the trail network and increase access points to state lands and waters. There are large gaps in public ownership within the park's boundaries. Increasing the state's share of the park would safeguard its already substantial investment and increase recreational opportunities and public use.
 For more than 100 years, the Catskills have been recognized as a special place. But enlightened planning is necessary. While the casino deal awaits federal approval, let's hope the governor invests in other, more environmentally and economically sound ways to revitalize the region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UTILITY RATES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); POVERTY RATES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Mohawk Indians; Casinos; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%) Kim Elliman; Nathan Berry; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; Catskills (NYS Area)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



609 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: High Stakes in the Catskills

BYLINE: By Kim Elliman and Nathan Berry. 
Kim Elliman is the chief executive of the Open Space Institute, a land conservation organization. Nathan Berry is his assistant.

 BODY:
EARLIER this year, Gov. Eliot Spitzer reached an agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe that brought New York one step closer to having a $600 million Las Vegas-style casino in Sullivan County, in the Catskills. The casino, which still needs final federal approval and faces a lawsuit from environmental groups, could generate up to $100 million for the state and $20 million for the county a year. 
 But the economic and environmental downside of this deal needs to be more carefully examined. Particularly worrisome is the casino's planned location within 12 miles of the Catskill Park and New York City's water supply. 
The casino is the governor's first major upstate economic development initiative. While it demonstrates his desire to see the Catskills prosper, it raises serious questions about his pre-election commitment to smart growth.
 If approved, the casino will be 85 miles north of New York City, practically on the border of the 700,000-acre Catskill Park, of which 41 percent, or 290,000 acres, has been acquired by the state, with most of the rest privately owned. Unfortunately, there is no regional land-use authority to control development on private lands, which jeopardizes the area's water quality and ecological integrity. 
 Perhaps even more dire is the threat the casino would pose to New York City's water supply, the largest unfiltered water system in the United States and the source of 90 percent of the city's drinking water. The city has spent billions of dollars to maintain and improve water quality, which thus far has allowed it to avoid the crippling cost of filtration. Yet today the water supply is in danger, in large part because of development and its associated pollution. Further degradation would require the city to construct a huge filtration plant that would cost as much as $10 billion and push water rates up 50 percent. 
 It is clear that the governor cares about the economic vitality of places like Sullivan County, but there are other ways to help that do not jeopardize such important recreational and natural resources. 
 Many people fondly recall the Borscht Belt era of the 1950s and '60s, when Jewish summer camps and resorts thrived in the Catskills. Those who wish to romanticize those years should remember that the resorts' success stemmed from the area's natural charms: its rolling farmland, its mountains and streams. 
 And despite the decline of the Borscht Belt resorts and counter to popular perceptions of the Catskills and the state of its economy, Sullivan County has recently experienced strong economic and population growth. Its unemployment and poverty rates are below the state average, and only a handful of New York's 62 counties have witnessed a bigger housing boom. 
 What's driving this growth? The region's natural resources and beauty. The governor and Sullivan County officials need to approach Catskill development by recognizing that economic prosperity can arise from protecting natural resources. 
 Instead of building a casino, the governor should promote a regional approach to development similar to those used in other resource-rich places like the Pine Barrens on Long Island. With or without a casino, the Catskills' natural resources need to be inventoried, and then a plan should be devised to safeguard those resources. Concentrating growth in downtown areas and redeveloping already built sites should be encouraged, while sprawling growth in outlying areas not served by community wastewater treatment facilities, roads and other infrastructure should be strongly discouraged. 
 More specifically, the governor should provide tax and other incentives to local governments in the Catskills to adopt zoning regulations that protect scenic and recreational areas. Development is now allowed practically everywhere, including in floodplains and on ridge lines. Smart zoning would preclude development that ruins views, pollutes water and makes floods more damaging.
 He should also establish a program to compensate landowners in natural resource-rich areas who give up their land's development rights or transfer those rights to an area that is already developed and has the capacity for more growth.
 Farms and forests are not only an important part of community character, they also contribute to the tax base while requiring few public services -- cows and trees don't go to school. In recent decades, we have seen increased fragmentation and development of these working lands as small-scale farming and forestry have become less profitable. To counter that trend, Governor Spitzer should support farmers and foresters through market incentives, tax abatement and subsidies. 
 And finally, the governor should encourage ecotourism by having the state acquire key parcels of land in the Catskill Park, expand the trail network and increase access points to state lands and waters. There are large gaps in public ownership within the park's boundaries. Increasing the state's share of the park would safeguard its already substantial investment and increase recreational opportunities and public use.
 For more than 100 years, the Catskills have been recognized as a special place. But enlightened planning is necessary. While the casino deal awaits federal approval, let's hope the governor invests in other, more environmentally and economically sound ways to revitalize the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UTILITY RATES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); POVERTY RATES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Mohawk Indians; Casinos; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%) Kim Elliman; Nathan Berry; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; Catskills (NYS Area)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



610 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES BRUNCHING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Victories

BYLINE: By EMILY BRADY

 BODY:
THERE were mini-croissants and pancakes, champagne and orange juice, and almost as many reasons for voting as there were candidates, as a well-heeled group of French expatriates gathered at brunch in Midtown last Sunday to watch the returns in the first round of France's presidential elections. 
 Between pecks on the cheek and potent cups of coffee, all kept their eyes riveted on the live election coverage in France on giant flat-screen televisions at Opia, a Franco-American restaurant on 57th Street at Lexington Avenue.
Pierre-Louis Lempereur, a suave United Nations diplomat seated at one of the linen-clothed tables, was one of many with a chesslike voting strategy. He voted for center-right candidate Francois Bayrou, but not because he wanted him to win. 
 ''I wanted to send a message to Sarkozy,'' Mr. Lempereur said, referring to his ultimate choice for president, the conservative front-runner Nicolas Sarkozy, one of a dozen candidates. Mr. Lempereur's message to Mr. Sarkozy: enact social and economic reform in France, but be less extreme than the polarizing candidate on the right, Jean-Marie Le Pen.
 Minutes later, the crowd grew silent, then erupted into applause as the news flashed across the screens that the winners of the first round of voting were Mr. Sarkozy and the Socialist candidate, Segolene Royal. Next Sunday, French voters will choose between them in the final round.
 Mr. Lempereur didn't appear surprised by the results, perhaps because his favorite was a popular one. According to election results gathered by the New York Webzine French Morning, the local French community voted 52 percent for Mr. Sarkozy. 
 Another member of this majority was Frederick Lesort, an owner of the restaurant. ''The reason we all left France is because we don't like the system and the taxes are so high,'' Mr. Lesort said as waitresses in slinky black cocktail dresses navigated the crowd. 
 Of course, not all of the 120 expatriates were on the same side politically. 
 ''My vote was more anti-right-wing vote than for Segolene,'' said Emmanuelle Collet, a 27-year-old freelance journalist seated at a table with fellow young leftists. Ms. Collet had voted for Ms. Royal rather than squander her vote on a fringe candidate. 
 One advantage to having two rounds of voting is that like a chess player, a voter can shift tactics, as was the case with Alzerina Gomez, a former model from the Cape Verde islands off West Africa, who designs crystal-encrusted swimwear. 
 Ms. Gomez, a French citizen by marriage, said that she had voted for Mr. Sarkozy because she thought he was the most intelligent candidate but that she was backpedaling as she reflected on his immigration policies. ''I'm a little scared he might be the second Bush,'' she said. ''Anyway, if I vote again, I'm going to change my vote.'' EMILY BRADY

GRAPHIC: Photo: French expatriates at Opia, a Midtown restaurant, watching returns in France's presidential elections. (Photo by Piotr Redlinski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) French-Americans; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%) Opia (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (77%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (57%); FRANCOIS BAYROU (53%) Emily Brady

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAPE VERDE (79%); AFRICA (77%); WESTERN AFRICA (72%) France; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



611 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: High Stakes in the Catskills

BYLINE: By Kim Elliman and Nathan Berry. 
Kim Elliman is the chief executive of the Open Space Institute, a land conservation organization. Nathan Berry is his assistant.

 BODY:
EARLIER this year, Gov. Eliot Spitzer reached an agreement with the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe that brought New York one step closer to having a $600 million Las Vegas-style casino in Sullivan County, in the Catskills. The casino, which still needs final federal approval and faces a lawsuit from environmental groups, could generate up to $100 million for the state and $20 million for the county a year. 
 But the economic and environmental downside of this deal needs to be more carefully examined. Particularly worrisome is the casino's planned location within 12 miles of the Catskill Park and New York City's (and parts of Westchester's) water supply. 
The casino is the governor's first major upstate economic development initiative. While it demonstrates his desire to see the Catskills prosper, it raises serious questions about his pre-election commitment to smart growth.
 If approved, the casino will be 85 miles north of New York City, practically on the border of the 700,000-acre Catskill Park, of which 41 percent, or 290,000 acres, has been acquired by the state, with most of the rest privately owned. Unfortunately, there is no regional land-use authority to control development on private lands, which jeopardizes the area's water quality and ecological integrity. 
 Perhaps even more dire is the threat the casino would pose to New York City's water supply, the largest unfiltered water system in the United States and the source of 90 percent of the city's drinking water. The city has spent billions of dollars to maintain and improve water quality, which thus far has allowed it to avoid the crippling cost of filtration. Yet today the water supply is in danger, in large part because of development and its associated pollution. Further degradation would require the city to construct a huge filtration plant that would cost as much as $10 billion and push water rates up 50 percent. 
 It is clear that the governor cares about the economic vitality of places like Sullivan County, but there are other ways to help that do not jeopardize such important recreational and natural resources. 
 Many people fondly recall the Borscht Belt era of the 1950s and '60s, when Jewish summer camps and resorts thrived in the Catskills. Those who wish to romanticize those years should remember that the resorts' success stemmed from the area's natural charms: its rolling farmland, its mountains and streams. 
 And despite the decline of the Borscht Belt resorts and counter to popular perceptions of the Catskills and the state of its economy, Sullivan County has recently experienced strong economic and population growth. Its unemployment and poverty rates are below the state average, and only a handful of New York's 62 counties have witnessed a bigger housing boom. What's driving this growth? The region's natural resources and beauty. The governor and Sullivan County officials need to approach Catskill development by recognizing that economic prosperity can arise from protecting natural resources. 
 Instead of building a casino, the governor should promote a regional approach to development similar to those used in other resource-rich places like the Pine Barrens on Long Island. With or without a casino, the Catskills' natural resources need to be inventoried, and then a plan should be devised to safeguard those resources. Concentrating growth in downtown areas and redeveloping already built sites should be encouraged, while sprawling growth in outlying areas not served by community wastewater treatment facilities, roads and other infrastructure should be strongly discouraged. 
 More specifically, the governor should provide tax and other incentives to local governments in the Catskills to adopt zoning regulations that protect scenic and recreational areas. Development is now allowed practically everywhere, including in floodplains and on ridge lines. Smart zoning would preclude development that ruins views, pollutes water and makes floods more damaging.
 He should also establish a program to compensate landowners in natural resource-rich areas who give up their land's development rights or transfer those rights to an area that is already developed and has the capacity for more growth.
 Farms and forests are not only an important part of community character, they also contribute to the tax base while requiring few public services -- cows and trees don't go to school. In recent decades, we have seen increased fragmentation and development of these working lands as small-scale farming and forestry have become less profitable. To counter that trend, Governor Spitzer should support farmers and foresters through market incentives, tax abatement and subsidies. 
 And finally, the governor should encourage ecotourism by having the state acquire key parcels of land in the Catskill Park, expand the trail network and increase access points to state lands and waters. There are large gaps in public ownership within the park's boundaries. Increasing the state's share of the park would safeguard its already substantial investment and increase recreational opportunities and public use.
 For more than 100 years, the Catskills have been recognized as a special place. But enlightened planning is necessary. While the casino deal awaits federal approval, let's hope the governor invests in other, more environmentally and economically sound ways to revitalize the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UTILITY RATES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); POVERTY RATES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Mohawk Indians; Casinos; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%) Kim Elliman; Nathan Berry; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; Catskills (NYS Area)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



612 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEA & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Walling Off Your Enemies: The Long View

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
THE rulers of China spent 2,000 years building and rebuilding the world's greatest wall, to keep out invaders from the north. The Roman emperor Hadrian built battlements across Britain against the barbarians 19 centuries ago. The Soviets cut Berlin in two; that wall came down when the will to defend it faded. The Israelis now build barricades against the Palestinians, guarding against an Arab population bomb as well as suicide bombers. 
 These are walls of war -- the architecture of long struggle. Hard to erect, harder to maintain, they are never stronger than the political skill of their designers.
Last week, thousands of people in Baghdad were uniting against a wall dividing them. Twelve feet high, it separates Sunnis and Shiites in the Adhamiya district of northern Baghdad, and it is part of the American military's fight against the Iraqi insurgency. Adhamiya is becoming one of many walled and gated communities in Iraq; the Americans have been building them for months. Gen. David Petraeus, the counterinsurgency specialist who leads the American forces in Iraq, said on Wednesday that he was ''walling off neighborhoods'' in order ''to control population and to provide security.'' He spoke of ''the concrete caterpillar that grows 500 meters every night'' in Baghdad. 
 The idea is the essence of counterinsurgency: to separate the good guys from the bad guys, and to impose political will to convert or defeat the enemy. History suggests that it can work -- but that it takes many years and a heavy hand.
 The British are the prime example of success in modern times. At the close of their colonial era, after World War II, they isolated the ethnic Chinese population in Malaya, building ''new villages'' and herding hundreds of thousands of people into them. In doing so, they controlled the population within the walls -- actually, fences that included barbed wire -- and attacked Chinese insurgents outside them. 
 ''If the insurgency is countrywide,'' wrote Sir Robert Thompson, the architect of the idea of the ''new villages,'' ''it is impossible to tackle it offensively in every area. It must be accepted that in certain areas only a holding operation can be conducted.'' Hence the concept of creating walls or fences to separate friends from foes.
 In practice, the British demoralized and defeated enemies of the empire, though thousands of noncombatants died in the process. The moral hazards of their methods seem fairly plain today, and therefore difficult to duplicate. But in its time, Malaya was counted as a famous victory, and the land of present-day Malaysia is peaceful and relatively prosperous. 
 ''The results speak for themselves,'' notes Lt. Col. Wade Markel, a United States Army strategist, writing last year in Parameters, the quarterly journal of the Army War College: by 1957, the number of insurgents had declined sharply -- to perhaps 200 active combatants from an estimated 8,000 five years earlier -- allowing a new Malay government to take shape. 
 ''Short-term, it was a success,'' said Caroline Elkins, a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian whose field is the twilight of British empire. ''But what happens within these walls? The British argued that they were winning hearts and minds. But behind the walls, it's all about forcing people to cooperate.'' 
 Winning the allegiance of civilians within the walls required a strong political will and a degree of violence, she said, and ''the British were much more brutal than the Americans were willing to be in Vietnam.''
 Sir Robert transplanted his theory to South Vietnam, and American advisers in Saigon embraced it in 1962. But they were never skillful enough -- or tough enough -- to sort out their foes, the Vietcong insurgents, from their South Vietnamese friends behind the stockade fences of their ''strategic hamlets.'' 
 When an American-backed coup took down the Saigon government in November 1963, the hamlets strategy went with it. The Americans could not clear and hold the jungle, and within a year the Vietcong were using roadside bombs, car bombs, and suicide bombers in Saigon. Half a million American troops followed. 
 Forty years later, after building billion-dollar bases walled off from Iraqis, American officers are embracing the strategies and tactics of counterinsurgency under the new Baghdad security plan, which adapts concepts used in the countrysides of Malaya and Vietnam to Iraq's urban centers. 
 Building concrete walls in Baghdad and controlling gated communities across Iraq is a crucial part of that plan. In the near future, identity cards or internal passports may be issued in an effort to isolate the enemy in Baghdad, as has been done with some success in the embattled city of Falluja.
 General Petraeus, who has said many times in many ways that this war cannot be won with firepower alone, may serve as the late-colonial British governor-generals once did, trying to impose order on chaos with a mix of force and social engineering -- trying ''to stitch together the fabric of society that was so torn,'' as he said Thursday, while building more and more walls to filter out the infiltrators.
 His commanders know that the loyalties of the people of Iraq are the battlefield where the war will be won or lost. The officers have been reading the classics of counterinsurgency, especially the work of David Galula, a French military officer who fought Algerian rebels in their war of independence 50 years ago. Though the French failed there, Galula's insights still resonate. 
 ''If we distinguish between people and rebels, then we have a chance,'' he wrote. But that is only a start: ''Political, social, economic and other reforms, however much they ought to be wanted and popular, are inoperative when offered while the insurgent still controls the population.'' 
 He continued: ''So intricate is the interplay between political and military actions that they cannot be tidily separated; on the contrary, every military move has to be weighed with regard to its political effects.'' 
 This is where the Adhamiya wall may have undermined itself. Many hundreds of residents protested in the streets against the wall last week, and their anger flowed from more than the traffic jams the wall had created. The imam of the district's main mosque called it ''the beginning of a huge plan intended to divide Baghdad ethnically and according to sect.''
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said it reminded people of ''other walls.'' Rightly or wrongly, some Iraqis compared it to the Berlin Wall and the barrier that Israel has built against the Palestinians. 
 To date, more than 3,000 American soldiers, 3,500 Iraqi soldiers, and 4,500 Iraqi policemen have died in this war. They have won many battles, but they have not held many battlefields long enough to keep peace, provide security, or establish enough trust to rebuild a shattered society. It will be months before anyone knows if the new strategy will work. But it seems unlikely that any wall can last too long with enemies on both sides. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the use of walls in the history of warfare misstated the length of time the Berlin Wall lasted. It fell after 28 years, not 18, having stood from Aug. 1961 to Nov. 1989.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Division -- It's an old idea: Barriers help separate friends from enemies. China's wall, top left, has lasted millennia
the Berlin wall, top right, fell after 18 years. These days, Israel is seeking security behind a border barrier, bottom left, and in Baghdad Americans are putting up walls to secure neighborhoods, echoing the theory behind the ''strategic hamlet,'' below, that they tried in Vietnam. (Photos by Clockwise from top left: Chang W. Lee/The New York Times
Ernst Haas/Getty Images
Ali Haider/European Pressphoto Agency
Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Larry Burrows/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (71%) Tim Weiner; David H (Gen) Petraeus

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ISRAEL (93%); GERMANY (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); VIET NAM (79%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



613 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Woman in Escort Case Plans to Name Names in Defense

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
Deborah Jeane Palfrey has not been at all shy about it: for more than a decade she ran an escort service that catered to upscale clients in the nation's capital, sending college-educated women to men's homes or hotel rooms.
 For about $300, she promised 90 minutes of what she has described as a discreet ''legal high-end erotic fantasy service.'' But the discreet part is over, after federal authorities charged her with operating a prostitution ring. 
''The tentacles of this matter reach far, wide and high into the echelons of power in the United States,'' Ms. Palfrey wrote in a court filing last month, as she prepared to release a list of her clients' telephone numbers and vowed to subpoena her customers -- some of whom she described as prominent Washington officials.
 It is a defense strategy that had its first casualty Friday.
 Randall L. Tobias, the top foreign aid adviser in the State Department, became the most prominent person on the list to be publicly identified when he resigned after acknowledging to ABC News that he was among Ms. Palfrey's clients. The State Department's statement on Mr. Tobias's resignation said simply, ''He is returning to private life for personal reasons.''
 ABC News reported that Mr. Tobias told the network on Thursday that he had called Pamela Martin and Associates -- Ms. Palfrey's business -- for massage services, not for sex.
 Mr. Tobias, 65, is a former chairman and chief executive of Eli Lilly & Company and of AT&T International. He was chairman of the board of Duke University from 1997 to 2000. He has been a major donor to various Republican campaigns.
 Mr. Tobias, who was the director of foreign assistance and the administrator of the Agency for International Development, ran agencies that required foreign recipients of AIDS assistance to explicitly condemn prostitution, a policy that drew protests from some nations and relief organizations.
 Bush administration officials on Saturday declined to comment further. Mr. Tobias did not respond to telephone messages left at his home and office on Friday and Saturday. 
 Mr. Tobias is the third prominent Washington figure to be identified as among Ms. Palfrey's clients. This month, she identified an adviser to the Pentagon as ''one of the regular customers'' of her service. She included in a court filing and posted on her Web site the man's photo and tax records. Dick Morris, the television commentator and former adviser to President Bill Clinton, who resigned in 1996 after reports that he was seeing a prostitute, was also a customer, Ms. Palfrey's lawyer has said in court. Mr. Morris has denied the accusation.
 Ms. Palfrey's business, which operated from 1993 to 2006, had 15,000 customers and a pool of 130 or so escorts, ranging in age from 23 to 55, who worked as independent contractors, she said in one court filing.
 ''Best selection and availability before 9 p.m. each evening,'' one advertisement she ran said.
 Over the six years before the business shut down, she collected more than $750,000 from the escorts, with whom she split fees for each call, federal officials said in court filings. 
 Ms. Palfrey, who ran the Washington escort service out of her home in Vallejo, Calif., was convicted in 1991 of operating an illegal prostitution business in California and served 18 months in prison, according to federal authorities. She declined through her lawyer to comment on Saturday.
 But she has insisted that her business, which she said catered to customers ''from the refined walks of life here in the nation's capital,'' offered only ''legal sexual and erotic services across the spectrum of adult sexual behavior,'' like massages or nude dancing.
 Federal authorities, who are pressing civil and criminal charges, say they are convinced that her escorts often crossed the line and that Ms. Palfrey knew they were working as prostitutes. Officials are trying to seize earnings from her business.
 It is Ms. Palfrey's defense strategy that is now causing the biggest stir.
 She not only intends to identify more of her high-profile clients, but has also threatened to call them as witnesses at trial to back up her claim that the services provided never crossed the line to prostitution.
 ''I am a ferocious fighter when need be,'' she wrote in an e-mail message this year to a Justice Department official involved in the case. ''I can state with unequivocal certainty this situation will be a very long and unpleasant one.''
 A federal judge ordered Ms. Palfrey to retain telephone records after she threatened to sell them to raise money for her defense. But she had already posted excerpts of the phone list on her Web site and given the list of calls from 2002 to 2006 to ABC News. 
 Montgomery Blair Sibley, Ms. Palfrey's lawyer in the civil case, said on Saturday that about five lawyers had called to ask if their clients' numbers were on the list. One lawyer asked if he could prevent the release of his client's name or number, he said. The answer, Mr. Sibley said, was no.
 ''We are not in the business of trying to sell protection,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); RESIGNATIONS (87%); WOMEN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); SUBPOENAS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); AIDS & HIV (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Prostitution; Escort Services

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (66%); MARTIN & ASSOCIATES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Martin, Pamela, and Associates

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (66%); LLY (NYSE) (66%); LEL (LSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%) Eric Lipton; Deborah Jeane Palfrey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



614 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Materialism, Snobbery And Young Shoppers

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Lesley Jane Seymour's unabashed reveling in tween shopping habits (''Tweens 'R' Shoppers,'' April 22) proclaims this young group of girls, ages 8 to 15, as a new economic power base in consumer spending. Really this is not new at all -- young girls from wealthy suburban towns have been power shopping for decades, displaying insatiable tastes for designer labels, fueled by parents' seemingly limitless budgets to support such spending. 
 What is missing from this lighthearted discussion, though, is the impact of spending habits, not to mention the overriding themes of materialism and overt snobbery perpetuated by a lifestyle of acquisitions nurtured at such a young age. Lynn Villency Cohen Stamford To the Editor:
 My children at 12 did not even know the name ''Louis Vuitton.'' Presently, their priorities lie in their studies, working, sports, traveling and spending time with friends. Oh, and they have chosen to actually help people in need by doing volunteer work in local hospitals and places such as Costa Rica and Jamaica. 
 Still today, when they need clothes, we go shopping and find items that look good, fit well and do not cost a fortune. My children do not like seeing designer logos embellished on their clothing, as they would rather themselves be seen, not the name on their shirts or jeans. 
 Many of us have forgotten how to help others or merely claim that we do not have the time to do so. We cannot blame these children; a parent's job is to guide the children and encourage them to grow up to be formidable adults. Linda Rowan Redding To the Editor:
 Lesley Jane Seymour's profile of three shopping tweens was a poignant look at how a new generation of shoppers succumbs to brand names and price-based decisions (the higher the price, the trendier the fashion). We have been lured into paying money to advertise the brand-name logos we willingly flaunt, and buying very expensive pre-ripped jeans. 
 As the shopping bags held by the girls in the lead photograph demonstrate, we also allow Abercrombie & Fitch's suggestive advertising and skin-tight jeans inventory to mask the possibility that subtlety and age-appropriate dressing are a faster route to sophisticated style.
 What a gift it would be if the fashion industry spent less time marketing the lowest common style denominator to our youngsters and, rather, helped them learn the meaning of style. Perhaps then our children would notice that the true value of Eve's bracelet mentioned in the article was not its Juicy Couture price tag, but rather that it was a gift of the heart from her mother. Jane Bailey Washington, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWEENS MARKET (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); BUDGETS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); SUBURBS (56%); HOSPITALS (52%); VOLUNTEERS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (82%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (69%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (82%); AFT (FRA) (82%); MC (PAR) (69%); LVMH (BIT) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (69%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2007



615 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Cases Keep Flowing In, But the Jury Pool Is Idle

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Trials are on the verge of extinction. They have been replaced by settlements and plea deals, by mediations and arbitrations and by decisions from judges based only on lawyers' written submissions.
 Federal courts conducted about 3,600 trials in civil cases last year, down from 5,800 in 1962. That is not an enormous drop -- until you consider that the number of cases has quintupled in the meantime.
In percentage terms, only 1.3 percent of federal civil cases ended in trials last year, down from 11.5 percent in 1962. 
 The trends in criminal cases and in the state courts are broadly similar, though not always quite as striking. But it is beyond dispute that even as the number of lawyers has grown twice as fast as the population and even as the number of lawsuits has exploded, actual trials have become quite rare.
 Instead of hearing testimony, ruling on objections and instructing jurors on the law, judges spend most of their time supervising the exchange of information, deciding pretrial motions and dealing with settlements and plea bargains.
 There is, of course, nothing wrong with settlements, at least when they are the product of reasoned and sensible compromise between evenly matched adversaries. But trials are not disappearing simply because more cases are being settled. Instead, they are increasingly being replaced by summary judgments, in which judges evaluate evidence submitted to them on paper. 
 ''During the last years of the 20th century, summary judgment in the federal courts moved from a small fraction of dispositions by trial to a magnitude several times greater than the number of trials,'' Marc Galanter, who teaches law at the University of Wisconsin and the London School of Economics and Political Science, wrote last year in The Journal of Dispute Resolution. 
 Professor Galanter elaborated in an interview. ''Summary judgments are being asked for in about 17 percent of cases and granted in about 9 percent,'' he said, citing recent data from the Federal Judicial Center. That is a big jump from 1960, when no more than 1.8 percent of federal civil cases ended in summary judgment, according to data from the administrative office of the federal courts analyzed in a 1961 law review article.
 ''We've moved in a way to a more European way of decision-making, by looking at the court file rather than through encounters with living witnesses whose testimony is tested by cross-examination,'' Professor Galanter said.
 In criminal cases, the vast majority of prosecutions end in plea bargains. In an article called ''Vanishing Trials, Vanishing Juries, Vanishing Constitution'' in the Suffolk University Law Review last year, a federal judge questioned the fairness of the choices confronting many criminal defendants. 
 Those who have the temerity to ''request the jury trial guaranteed them under the U.S. Constitution,'' wrote the judge, William G. Young of the Federal District Court in Boston, face ''savage sentences'' that can be five times as long as those meted out to defendants who plead guilty and cooperate with the government.
 The movement away from jury trials is not just a societal reallocation of resources or a policy choice. Rather, as Judge Young put it, it represents a disavowal of ''the most stunning and successful experiment in direct popular sovereignty in all history.''
 Indeed, juries were central to the framers of the Constitution, who guaranteed the right to a jury trial in criminal cases, and to the drafters of the Bill of Rights, who referred to juries in the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Amendments. Jury trials may be expensive and time-consuming, but the jury, local and populist, is a counterweight to central authority and is as important an element in the constitutional balance as the two houses of Congress, the three branches of government and the federal system itself.
 In an article titled ''Why Summary Judgment Is Unconstitutional,'' published last month in the Virginia Law Review, Suja A. Thomas, a law professor at the University of Cincinnati, makes the perfectly plausible argument that the procedure violates the Seventh Amendment, which reserves the job of determining the facts in civil cases to juries.
 When judges decide summary judgment motions, Professor Thomas wrote, they intrude on that job. The theory of summary judgment is that judges may rule for one side or the other only after finding that no ''genuine'' issues of ''material'' fact are in dispute. They must determine, as the Supreme Court has put it, whether ''a reasonable jury could return a verdict'' for the party defending against a motion for summary judgment. 
 All of that pushes judges right up to and sometimes across the constitutional line of determining the facts for themselves.
 In 2004, in the process of revitalizing the role of the jury in criminal cases, Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court wrote that there were good arguments for ''leaving justice entirely in the hands of professionals.'' But that is not the theory of the Constitution, he continued, which enshrined ''the common-law ideal of limited state power accomplished by strict division of authority between judge and jury.''
 The jury trial is a distinctively American tradition in a cultural sense, too. Almost all civil jury trials in the world take place here, and 90 percent of the criminal ones. But that tradition, which Prof. Paul Butler of George Washington University calls ''as fundamental a part of our culture as jazz or rock 'n' roll,'' is dying.
 I was on jury duty last week, in a state criminal court in Manhattan. During the orientation on Wednesday, a court officer, with mixed pride and hyperbole, said his was the busiest courthouse in America. 
 I never saw so much as the inside of a courtroom. After a couple of days of milling around in an assembly room with more than 100 other potential jurors, the State of New York thanked us for our service and sent us home. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMARY JUDGMENT (91%); JURY TRIALS (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); JUDGES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); TRENDS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) Courts; Jury System ; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation ; Crime and Criminals; Plea Bargaining; Courts

PERSON: Adam Liptak; William G (Judge) Young

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



616 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: Maine Learns Expensive Lesson As Universal Health Plan Stalls

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me., April 23 

 BODY:
When Maine became the first state in years to enact a law intended to provide universal health care, one of its goals was to cover the estimated 130,000 residents who had no insurance by 2009, starting with 31,000 of them by the end of 2005, the program's first year.
 So far, it has not come close to that goal. Only 18,800 people have signed up for the state's coverage and many of them already had insurance.
''I think when we first started, in terms of making estimates, we really were kind of groping in the dark,'' said Gov. John E. Baldacci, who this month proposed a host of adjustments. 
 The story of Maine's health program -- which tries to control hospital costs, improve the quality of health care and offer subsidized insurance to low-income people -- harbors lessons for the country, as covering the uninsured takes center stage. States, including California, Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, have unveiled programs of their own, seeking to balance the needs and interests of individuals, employers, insurers and health care providers.
 But as Maine tries to reform its reforms, it faces some particular challenges: It has large rural, poor and elderly populations with significant health needs. It has many mom-and-pop businesses and part-time or seasonal workers, and few employers large enough to voluntarily offer employees insurance. And most insurers here no longer find it profitable to sell individual coverage, leaving one carrier, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, with a majority of the market, a landscape that some economists said could make it harder to provide broad choices and competitive prices. 
 Some parts of the state's current program -- named Dirigo after the state motto, which means ''I lead'' in Latin -- are seen as promising. These include the creation of a state watchdog group to promote better health care, and an effort to control costs by asking hospitals to rein in price increases and spending, although experts and advocates said those cuts needed to be greater.
 But a financing formula dependent on sizable payments from private insurers has angered businesses and is being challenged in court. 
 And while some people have benefited from the subsidized insurance, which provides unusually comprehensive coverage, others have found it too expensive. And premiums have increased, not become more affordable, because some of those who signed up needed significant medical care, and there are not enough enrollees, especially healthy people unlikely to use many benefits. 
 ''It was broad-based reform that just never got off the ground,'' said Laura Tobler, a health policy analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''The way that they funded the program became controversial. And getting insurance was voluntary and it wasn't that cheap.''
 Governor Baldacci said in an interview that when the Legislature enacted the Dirigo Health Reform Act in 2003, it gave him less money and more compromises than he had wanted. He said his administration had now learned more about what works and what does not.
 His new proposals include requiring people to have insurance and employers to offer it and penalizing them financially if they do not; making the subsidized insurance plan, DirigoChoice, more affordable for small businesses; creating a separate insurance pool for high-risk patients; instituting more Medicaid cost controls; and having the state administer DirigoChoice, which is now sold by Anthem Blue Cross. 
 ''We've got a reform package that takes Dirigo to the next level,'' Mr. Baldacci said. ''It takes the training wheels off.'' 
 The proposed overhaul seems to include something each of Maine's constituencies can embrace and something each opposes, so there is no guarantee which changes will be adopted by the Legislature.
 ''It's very hard politically to deal with the underlying costs of the system,'' said Andrew Coburn, director of the Institute for Health Policy at the Muskie School of Public Service in Portland. ''And Maine is just not wealthy enough to cobble together enough resources to fully cover the uninsured.''
 The state's current program, which has added 5,000 people to Medicaid and enrolled 13,800 people in DirigoChoice, has made progress. Even though the enrollment goal has not been met, the insurance plan has grown faster than any in Maine's history, the governor said. And although about 60 percent of its enrollees were previously insured, some were paying what state officials deemed was too high a percentage of their income, said Trish Riley, director of the Governor's Office of Health Policy and Finance.
 The DirigoChoice benefits are impressive, said Hilary K. Schneider, policy director for Consumers for Affordable Health Care, a Maine advocacy group. The program completely covers preventive care, subsidizes premiums and deductibles, and unlike most insurance plans, covers treatment for mental illness and does not exclude people for pre-existing medical conditions.
 Such coverage has caused critics to say DirigoChoice would be more affordable if it scaled back benefits. 
 ''It's a Cadillac policy, and we ought to be trying to fund a Ford Escort policy,'' said Jim McGregor, executive vice president of the Maine Merchants Association.
 One of DirigoChoice's success stories, Jacquie Murphy, 63, of Westbrook, said, ''It absolutely saved my life.'' Ms. Murphy said she has fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, back problems, an autoimmune disease and memory problems from a childhood brain injury. She said that a few years ago, when she left an abusive marriage and gave up her husband's coverage, the fear of being unable to afford insurance that would accept someone with her illnesses ''caused me to become clinically depressed.''
 With DirigoChoice, which costs her just over $100 a month with the state paying a subsidy of about $250, she now has a walker, sees orthopedic surgeons for shoulder and ankle fractures, and takes medication for memory, cholesterol and thyroid problems. The relief of being insured lifted her depression, she said, and now, in her home with its Asian-themed pebbled backyard, she works as a career and life coach.
 For others, like Leah Deragon, 34, DirigoChoice is too costly. Ms. Deragon, who runs a Portland nonprofit center that helps low-income families with new babies, said that although she and her husband, an engineering student, qualified for a subsidy, they could not afford the roughly $300 out-of-pocket cost each month. She remains uninsured, forgoing annual checkups and using student loan money when she needed dental work. 
 ''For us it was very frustrating,'' said Ms. Deragon, who shops at Goodwill and lives in her mother's home in Gorham to save money. ''We earned, I think, $16,000 last year. We can't do $200 or $300 a month and still put gas in our car. Come the end of the month, we would be forced to hitchhike.'' 
 And there is John Henderson, 42, of Auburn, who enrolled in DirigoChoice in 2006 for about $90 a month while working at an L. L. Bean warehouse, a job he kept to 20 hours a week so his income would qualify him for such a low rate. 
 But he dropped the plan this year when rates increased by 13.4 percent on average. Mr. Henderson, who has diabetes and is currently jobless, said he had stopped once-regular doctor's appointments and some medications that ''I have just no hope of affording.'' 
 Ms. Schneider's group is suing the state insurance commissioner for approving the rate increase. 
 An Anthem spokesman, Mark Ishkanian, said the increase was necessary because medical claims of DirigoChoicecustomers were ''substantially higher'' than anticipated, about double those of non-Dirigo plans. One reason for the higher expense was ''pent-up demand'' by enrollees who had been deferring visits to doctors while they were uninsured, Mr. Ishkanian said. Another was the richness of the coverage, which enrollees used for treating long-held conditions or mental illness, he said.
 Ms. Riley said the state was surprised that more than half of DirigoChoice enrollees qualified for the highest subsidy, 80 percent, which meant the program has been more expensive for the state.
 She said Maine also expected more small businesses to enroll in DirigoChoice. But many businesses found that the program requirements of enrolling 75 percent of a firm's employees and paying 60 percent of the cost were too expensive. 
 ''If they weren't able to afford insurance before, they're unlikely to be able to afford Dirigo,'' said Kristine Ossenfort, senior governmental affairs specialist of the Maine State Chamber of Commerce.
 Some health care advocates have accused Anthem of not marketing DirigoChoice enough to prospective customers, which Anthem denies. 
 Especially controversial was Maine's financing formula for its program, which assumed that there would be savings because an increase in insured people would mean less charity care from hospitals, and that the cost-cutting measures would mean lower costs to insurers. 
 The state said it would charge insurers for those savings, rather than let insurers take the savings as profit. But when the state tried to charge insurers $43.7 million in 2005 and $34.3 million in 2006, the insurance industry and the chamber of commerce sued, saying the insurers owed much less.
 A judge ruled for the state, but the case is being appealed. The governor's new proposal would phase out this financing structure and impose lower-cost surcharges instead. 
 Among the state program's biggest fans is Joan M. Donahue, 40, who was uninsured when she started a home care agency in Warren three years ago. She now has DirigoChoice for herself and her 17-year-old son, and three employees are enrolled. She also has two employees who cannot afford it and have not enrolled.
 ''I will absolutely stick with Dirigo,'' said Ms. Donahue, who does not qualify for the subsidy. ''This program needs healthy people who don't get subsidized so it can prosper.''
 The Dirigo program has already made one change that could attract people like Malvina Gregory, 31, a Spanish interpreter in Portland, who could not afford the subsidized insurance but may reconsider. Ms. Gregory was originally put off because it demanded full payment up front, and rebated the subsidy later; she went instead to a Portland program giving nearly free care, but is now afraid her income ''will bump me over the limit'' for that program.
 DirigoChoice will now allow individuals to pay only their part up front. ''The concept of Dirigo, I think, is phenomenal,'' Ms. Gregory said. ''I hope they are able to lower the premiums. There are a lot of folks like me that are in that bind.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leah Deragon, top left, founder of a family resource center in Portland, Me., is uninsured and said she could not afford the state's universal health plan. Jacquie Murphy of Westbrook, right, said the health care overhaul had helped her obtain a walker and affordable care. ''It absolutely saved my life,'' she said. John Henderson of Auburn cycles for his health
 he has diabetes and said rising premiums forced him to leave the health plan. (Photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); SEASONAL WORKERS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Small Business; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: Pam Belluck; John E (Gov) Baldacci

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (88%) MAINE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



617 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Another Economic Disconnect

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last fall Edward Lazear, the Bush administration's top economist, explained that what's good for corporations is good for America. ''Profits,'' he declared, ''provide the incentive for physical capital investment, and physical capital growth contributes to productivity growth. Thus profits are important not only for investors but also for the workers who benefit from the growth in productivity.''
 In other words, ask not for whom the closing bell tolls; it tolls for thee. 
Unfortunately, these days none of what Mr. Lazear said seems to be true. In the Bush years high profits haven't led to high investment, and rising productivity hasn't led to rising wages.
 The second of those two disconnects has gotten a lot of attention because of its political consequences. The administration and its allies whine that they aren't getting credit for a great economy, but because wages have been stagnant -- the median worker's earnings, adjusted for inflation, haven't gone up at all since the current economic expansion began in 2001 -- the economy feels anything but great to most Americans.
 Less attention, however, has been given to the first disconnect: the failure of high profits to produce an investment boom.
 Since President Bush took office, the combination of rising productivity and stagnant wages -- workers are producing more, but they aren't getting paid more -- has led to a veritable profit gusher, with corporate profits more than doubling since 2000. Last year, profits as a share of national income were at the highest level ever recorded.
 You might have expected this gusher of profits, which surely owes something to the Bush administration's pro-corporate, anti-labor tilt, to produce a corresponding gusher of business investment. But the reality has been more of a trickle. Nonresidential investment -- that is, investment other than housing construction -- has grown very slowly by historical standards. As a share of G.D.P., nonresidential investment remains far below its levels of the late 1990s, and it has been declining for the last two quarters.
 Why aren't corporations investing, and what does the lack of business investment mean for the economy?
 It's possible that sluggish business investment reflects lack of confidence in the economic outlook -- a lack of confidence that's understandable given the bursting of the housing bubble, which has already caused G.D.P. growth to slow to a crawl. 
 But as Floyd Norris recently reported in The Times, there is a more disturbing possibility. Instead of investing in physical capital, many companies are using profits to buy back their own stock. And cynics suggest that the purpose of these buybacks is to produce a temporary rise in stock prices that increases the value of executives' stock options, even if it's against the long-term interests of investors.
 It's not a far-fetched idea. Researchers at the Federal Reserve have found evidence that company decisions about stock buybacks are strongly influenced by ''agency conflicts,'' a genteel term for self-dealing by corporate insiders. In the 1990s that kind of self-dealing often led to excessive investment, which at least left a tangible legacy behind. But today the self-interest of management may be standing in the way of productive investment.
 Whatever the reasons, we now have an economy with incredibly high profits and surprisingly low investment. This raises some immediate, short-run concerns: with housing still in free fall and consumers ever more stretched, optimistic projections for the economy depend on vigorous growth in business investment. And that doesn't seem to be happening. 
 The bigger issue, however, may be longer term. Mr. Lazear was right about one thing: business investment plays an important role in raising productivity. High investment in equipment and software was one major reason for the productivity takeoff that began in the Clinton era, and continued in the early years of this decade. 
 And low investment may be one reason productivity growth has slowed dramatically over the last three years -- another development that hasn't received as much attention as it should.
 In any case, next time someone tells you that any action that might reduce corporate profits a bit -- like actually enforcing health and safety regulations or making it easier for workers to organize -- will reduce business investment, bear in mind that today's record profits aren't being invested. Instead, they're being used to enrich executives and a few lucky stock owners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); HOME PRICES (67%); STOCK OPTIONS (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%) United States Economy; Productivity; Income; Capital Investment

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (88%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



618 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
 TELECOM DEAL IN ITALY -- Telefonica and a group of Italian investors have agreed to pay about $5.6 billion for an 18 percent stake in Telecom Italia, which would let Telefonica, Europe's second-largest telecommunications provider, enter the Italian market and extend its presence in Latin America. [Page C1.] ALL ME, ALL THE TIME -- The social networking phenomenon is leaving the confines of the personal computer. Powerful new mobile devices are allowing people to send round-the-clock updates about their vacations, their moods or their latest haircut. [C1.] A NEW FILM RISK -- If the horror at Virginia Tech has changed the chemistry of America's popular culture, those who count box-office receipts at Lionsgate will be among the first to know. 
The independent studio still plans to release on June 8 its ''Hostel: Part II,'' about the torture killing of college students. [C1.] SPEAKING VIAGRA -- In promoting Viagra, its impotence treatment, Pfizer has irritated regulators with its wink-and-a-nod ads. Now it has ads feature middle-aged men and women talking in a made-up language, save for one word. [C1.] YAHOO MAKES A DEAL -- Yahoo plans to acquire Right Media, a privately held company that runs an advertising marketplace. [C2.] U.N.'S SOLE ACCREDITED BLOGGER -- Matthew Lee, left, is the only blogger at the United Nations with media credentials, entitling him to free office space and access to briefings and news conferences. The United Nations is one of the few institutions of size and importance that allow bloggers not affiliated with larger, more traditional media companies. [C6.] THE FIVE-MINUTE 'STARSKY' -- The Sony Corporation has shrunk episodes of '70s and '80s television series to three and a half to five minutes, hoping to create a new business in retooling old shows for a new era of entertainment. [C4.] COMPETITIVE VOCABULARY -- Now that spelling bees have been turned into a hit Broadway show and crossword puzzles into a movie, the publishers of the American Heritage dictionary are hoping to create a cultural moment with a competitive game about word definitions. [C4.] ALL YOUR STUFF, ONLINE -- At least three companies have emerged in recent months with the aim of helping people catalog and value their possessions and post them online. The plan is to attract millions of people, then find retailers who want to sell them more items to go along with their possessions. [C8.] MORE GARDEN THAN GUN -- The title of Garden & Gun, a new lifestyle magazine from Charleston, S.C., might not have raised eyebrows had it not been for the fact that the premiere issue hit newsstands just days before the shootings at Virginia Tech on April 16. [C6.] GOOGLING STATE DATA -- Four states have joined forces with Google to make information from their Web sites more directly accessible through Internet searches. [C8.] INVESTING IN CLEAN ENERGY -- Money flowing into alternative energy companies is raising the threat of a bubble, according to a research firm, but investors may be overlooking other clean technologies. [C7.] A PLUG FOR PHONE LEAKS -- Drumming up business would seem to be an easy task for those who sell encrypted cellphones in Italy. All they have to do is browse the major newspapers, looking for leaked telephone conversations. [C6.] EX-ABC NEWSMAN MOVING TO TIME -- Mark Halperin, the longtime political director of ABC News and a pioneer of online reporting, is moving to Time magazine. [C2.] ADS FOR INTERNET RADIO -- A start-up company, TargetSpot, is trying to turn the nascent field of Internet radio into a viable business, and CBS Radio is its first customer. [C10.] CHINA TIGHTENS MONEY AGAIN -- For the second time this month, China has ordered banks to hold more of their deposits in reserve as it seeks to prevent credit and investment growth from destabilizing the economy. [C2.] BEST PLACES TO BLOG ABOUT -- Clinton Hill in Brooklyn is the most blogged-about neighborhood in America, says a Web site that found a link between gentrification and the number of people who feel compelled to think out loud about the changes in their backyards. [C6.] WHAT GOES AROUND -- The pop culture magazine Radar has accused a Chilean magazine of ripping off its story on ''Toxic Bachelors,'' but freely admits that it borrowed the concept from other sources, like a book by Danielle Steele and the ''Sex and the City'' series. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (79%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); FILM (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (75%); SHOOTINGS (72%); ACCREDITATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); TICKET SALES (54%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (53%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TELEFONICA O2 EUROPE PLC (92%); SONY CORP (65%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (58%); PFIZER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (65%); SNE (NYSE) (65%); 6758 (TSE) (65%); TIT (BIT) (58%); TI (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ITALY (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



619 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of Pay-Go?

 BODY:
There is rare good news from the otherwise grim budget front. Majorities in both the House and Senate have voted to impose a pay-as-you-go rule, starting with the 2008 federal budget, which they plan to complete this spring. 
 ''Pay-go,'' which was abandoned in 2002, is vital to restoring budget discipline. It would require Congress to pay for new spending on entitlements, like Medicare, either by raising taxes or cutting other entitlements. It would also require legislators to make up forgone revenue from new tax cuts by raising other taxes or cutting spending.
There are differences, however, in the chambers' approaches to pay-go. The House's approach is better because it has no tricky escape hatches. In contrast, the Senate's version of the budget contains an amendment that would make it all too easy to sidestep the rule. For example, 60 senators would be able to pass a bill today to extend Bush-era tax cuts set to expire in 2010, claiming that the resulting revenue losses would be ''paid for'' by a budget surplus projected for 2012. 
 The amendment would pose a big temptation to game the process, with a predictably bad outcome. Even if the projected surplus materialized, it would be temporary because of looming obligations for retiring baby boomers. So, using up the surplus in advance would only guarantee more federal debt later. 
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has championed the amendment as a way to smooth extension of otherwise expiring middle-class tax cuts, like the child tax credit. But it could just as well be used to gut the estate tax for America's wealthiest families or to bolster tax breaks for investors. In any event, the Baucus amendment violates the whole point of pay-go, which is to stick to it in the interest of long-term budget health. 
 In coming up with a final budget bill, Democrats and Republicans alike should embrace the House's clean, tough approach to pay-go. That would ensure that any renewal of expiring tax cuts would be married to a realistic plan to pay for them, based on resources at hand rather than projections. Pay-go itself should be waived only in a real budget emergency -- as in 1993, when it was waived to extend unemployment benefits temporarily in the aftermath of a recession. Lawmakers' unrelenting desire to lock in constituent-pleasing tax cuts is not what we would call an emergency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ESTATE TAX (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MEDICARE (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); FAMILY (68%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) Editorials

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



620 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Colombian Seeks to Persuade Congress to Continue Aid

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, April 29 

 BODY:
Faced with allegations of government ties to paramilitary death squads and criticism from prominent Democrats, President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia is heading to Washington this week to try to unlock frozen American aid and salvage a trade agreement with the United States.
 It is not clear whether Mr. Uribe will succeed, despite having the best relations with President Bush of any South American leader. Mr. Uribe boasts high approval ratings in Colombia, but a scandal over links between outlawed paramilitary groups and his close political allies has eroded his credibility in Washington. 
 ''We need vigilance by our own government and assurances that our aid is not going to anyone linked to illegal groups,'' said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is the leader of the Senate panel that oversees aid to Colombia. After the Middle East and Afghanistan, Colombia is the largest recipient of American assistance, with more than $4 billion disbursed this decade.
 Mr. Leahy put a hold on $55.2 million in military aid to Colombia this month while awaiting clarification on intelligence claims of collaboration between Colombia's army and paramilitaries, which have been classified as terrorist groups by the State Department. 
 Both the paramilitaries and guerrilla insurgents have committed atrocities against Colombians and shipped large amounts of cocaine to the United States during an internal war that has lasted decades. 
 Mr. Uribe's reaction to the scandal may have worsened his standing in the United States Congress since control passed to the Democrats. He has lashed out at domestic political opponents, saying he had placed opposition lawmakers who had met with Democratic leaders in Washington under surveillance.
 Much of Mr. Uribe's ire has been directed at Senator Gustavo Petro, a lawmaker and former member of the M-19 rebel movement who has pushed for investigations of paramilitary groups. In testimony before Colombia's Congress this month, Mr. Petro asserted that paramilitaries held meetings on ranches owned by Mr. Uribe and his brother in the late 1980s before embarking on nighttime killing raids.
 Senior Colombian officials and Mr. Uribe himself have vehemently denied the accusations. Still, investigators are looking into paramilitary ties of more than a dozen allies of Mr. Uribe, including his former domestic intelligence chief, who is accused of supplying the militias with details on academics and union officials who were chosen for assassination.
 Mr. Uribe, who is scheduled to be in Washington from Tuesday through Thursday to meet with President Bush, Democratic lawmakers and human rights groups, declined requests for an interview.
 Vice President Francisco Santos expressed concern that deteriorating relations with Democratic leaders could endanger advances Colombia has made in reducing urban violence, demobilizing thousands of paramilitary fighters and economic growth. ''There is friendly fire from the Democrats of which Colombia is becoming the casualty,'' Mr. Santos said in a telephone interview.
 ''We stabilized a country that was going to shambles,'' Mr. Santos said, noting that Washington's large assistance project for Colombia was conceived under President Clinton. Mr. Santos said paramilitary ties were coming to light because of the resilience of institutions carrying out independent investigations.
 Mr. Uribe is popular in Colombia after limiting the reach of the war into large cities while riding an economic growth wave. ''He received a country with 21 percent unemployment and today has it at 13 percent,'' said Rafael Nieto, a political analyst in Bogota.
 Mr. Uribe's critics say he is doing relatively little to move the investigations forward and ensure the safety of his opponents. Mr. Petro, the opposition lawmaker, said he had uncovered a plot to kill him led by Juan Villate, a security official for the Drummond Company, an American coal producer with operations in Colombia.
 Drummond said in a statement that the accusations against Mr. Villate, who had previously worked as a security official at the United States Embassy in Bogota, were ''politically motivated.''
 ''I have had an avalanche of hostile actions against me,'' Mr. Petro said in a telephone interview, adding that family members had also received death threats.
 Human rights groups have criticized the killings of trade union officials and violations by Colombia's armed forces, creating another obstacle to securing Congressional approval of new military aid and the trade agreement, which has already been signed by Mr. Bush and Mr. Uribe. Fifty-eight trade unionists were killed in 2006, up from 40 the previous year, though labor groups say government estimates of the homicides are too low.
 ''Colombia has no real answer to these killings,'' said Maria McFarland, a researcher for Human Rights Watch.
 Colombian business leaders argue that a trade agreement is needed to open new markets for Colombian goods. But critics say it could increase American agribusiness exports like soybeans, effectively restricting access to the important Colombian market for relatively poor neighboring countries like Bolivia.
 The Bush administration, meanwhile, has requested $3.9 billion in additional aid for Colombia, which is still the world's largest supplier of cocaine. John P. Walters, the director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, acknowledged in a recent letter to Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, that street prices of cocaine in the United States had dropped more than 10 percent from 2005 to 2006 and that the drug's purity levels had also increased.
 Mr. Uribe's unwavering support of Mr. Bush, meanwhile, seems to have won him little respect among leading Democrats. Former Vice President Al Gore, for instance, recently canceled an appearance at a Miami conference attended by Mr. Uribe because of concerns over the claims of his paramilitary ties.
 Political analysts in Washington and Bogota do not expect the United States to cut off aid to Colombia. Rather, they see Washington retooling aid to strengthen judicial institutions that carry out investigations while still supporting Colombia's military. But to reach that point, they say, Mr. Uribe needs to aggressively advance investigations of the reach of paramilitary groups. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Alvaro Uribe in Miami recently. Prominent Democrats are concerned about accusations of Colombian government ties to paramilitaries. (Photo by Peter Andrew Bosch/Miami Herald, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TESTIMONY (74%); ARMIES (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ETHICS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); COCAINE (51%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Ethics

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PATRICK LEAHY (73%) Simon Romero; Alvaro (Pres) Uribe; George W (Pres) Bush; Patrick J (Sen) Leahy

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Colombia; Colombia

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



621 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Resignation Could Be Part Of World Bank Compromise

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
On the eve of what seems likely to be an ugly showdown between Paul D. Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank, and its board of directors over his future there, both sides are talking about trying to avert a prolonged confrontation that could cripple the bank and its mission of aiding poor countries.
 For a week at least, the bank's board has seemed determined to force Mr. Wolfowitz out on grounds that he showed favoritism to his companion, a bank employee, in giving her a raise and promotion when he became bank president in 2005. 
More recently, however, there is talk at the bank of avoiding a confrontation by having Mr. Wolfowitz resign in return for a reprimand that acknowledges that he acted in good faith at the time and that ethics officials at the bank had approved of his actions when they examined them in 2005 and 2006.
 ''I think the board has been looking for a way out of this,'' said a bank official briefed on the board's thinking, who was not authorized to discuss it publicly. ''The directors do not want to set a precedent by ousting Wolfowitz. I'm convinced that they are hopeful that he will see the light and give a way out by resigning or proposing something palatable from a political perspective.''
 The bank's 24-member board of directors is to meet Monday to hear Mr. Wolfowitz -- and possibly his companion, Shaha Ali Riza, who is now working at a foundation that promotes democracy in the Middle East -- before deciding later in the week what to do.
 It is unclear whether the issue will come up during President Bush's scheduled meeting on Monday with the chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, who is to visit the White House as the current president of the European Union.
 European officials say that Mrs. Merkel is prepared to tell Mr. Bush that Europe favors Mr. Wolfowitz's resignation. Some Europeans view his leadership as divisive, and as an obstacle to rich countries meeting their commitment to raise $30 billion over the next three years for poor countries.
 But German officials say Mrs. Merkel may not raise the matter on her own because the Germans have been told that Mr. Bush would reply forcefully that the United States still stands behind Mr. Wolfowitz.
 On the fringes of the Merkel-Bush meeting, however, there could be discussions about a way out of the impasse, based on a growing recognition that if Mr. Wolfowitz stayed, the bank's aid flows would be jeopardized and a raft of other senior bank leaders would resign.
 New talk of averting a confrontation is based partly on Mr. Wolfowitz's display of tough tactics since his hiring of Robert S. Bennett, a high-powered Washington lawyer known for adept legal skirmishing and negotiation.
 Mr. Wolfowitz last week accused the bank's board of directors, which had assumed the task of evaluating his conduct in 2005, of treating him ''shabbily'' by giving him insufficient time to defend himself.
 More recently, he has signaled that at the meeting on Monday, scheduled to give him a day in court, he will cite documents indicating that top officials at the bank cleared his actions in 2005 and early 2006. His argument is that if he was to blame for any of dereliction of duty, that dereliction was shared by the board.
 For example, a document that Mr. Wolfowitz is expected to cite, dated June 22, 2005, from Ad Melkert, chairman of the board's ethics committee, suggests that Ms. Riza was entitled to ''full recognition of her (considerable) professional qualifications'' in arranging for her to be compensated for moving to another job.
 Mr. Bennett, in an interview on Sunday, said Mr. Wolfowitz had no intention of resigning and would continue to fight for his job. But Mr. Bennett seemed to signal that if the bank were willing to recognize a shared responsibility for the current crisis, it could clear the way for resolving the conflict. 
 ''We are going to be presenting to the committee tomorrow powerful evidence that Mr. Wolfowitz acted in the best interest of the bank,'' he said. ''Mr. Wolfowitz also believes that not only he but the bank acted in good faith. Perhaps with the benefit of hindsight everyone could have done a better job. But everyone acted in good faith.''
 Mr. Bennett said that he was convinced that ''if the temperature is lowered'' both sides could talk about what was good for the future of the bank. But he also indicated that he was prepared to keep the temperature raised, possibly by demanding the public release of the salaries and perquisites of others at the bank.
 A full public airing of the high salaries at the bank is not something that top bank officials want, many bank officials say. They may seek to avoid a confrontation if only to avoid calling Mr. Bennett's bluff.
 There are rumors at the bank that Mr. Wolfowitz may cancel trips to Europe and Africa to discuss aid projects for poor countries, but Mr. Bennett said Mr. Wolfowitz would probably proceed with his duties at the bank.
 But in the Bush administration, where Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney are leading the defense of Mr. Wolfowitz and preparing to confront Chancellor Merkel and other Europeans if necessary, there also appears to be a recognition that the bank is ailing and likely to become close to dysfunctional if Mr. Wolfowitz stays.
 Officials say they cannot discuss the possibility of his resigning because that is not the formal position of the administration. But it would not be a surprise to many if Mr. Wolfowitz eventually stepped down because of the widespread antipathy at the bank toward his leadership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ETHICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Union; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%) Steven R Weisman; Paul D Wolfowitz; Shaha Ali Riza; Angela (Chancellor) Merkel; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



622 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8 Iran Announces Intentions To Attend Iraq Conference The government of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran announced that it would attend a regional conference on Iraq this week, setting the stage for the first cabinet-level meeting between Iran and the United States since 2004. A1 Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, is interviewing candidates for a new high-profile job that people in Washington are calling the war czar. The official would brief President Bush every morning on Iraq and Afghanistan, then prod cabinet secretaries into carrying out White House orders. A1 Militiamen loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr clashed with American forces in northern Baghdad, an Interior Ministry official said, the latest in a series of indications that the militia may be emerging from two months of self-imposed dormancy. A5 Ireland Head Calls for Elections Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland called for a general election next month. 
Under Irish law Mr. Ahern had to call elections by midsummer. He said he would campaign for re-election on the strength of the economy and helping restore Northern Ireland's stalled peace process. A6 Conduct Report Looms in Israel As an official report on the Israeli government's failings during the recent war against Hezbollah in Lebanon is about to be published, the main topic of public debate is whether Prime Minister Ehud Olmert will be able to hang onto power. Current polls show his approval ratings hovering between 2 and 3 percent. A6 U.S.-Afghan Raid Kills 6 American and Afghan troops raided a suspected bomb-making compound killing six people, including two women, and wounding two children, Afghan officials said. Angry villagers took the bodies of victims onto the main Kabul-to-Pakistan highway and demonstrated for more than five hours. A6 NATIONAL A14-18 Maine's Health Overhaul Harbors Costly Lessons Maine's new health care system was intended to provide universal care and cover 130,000 uninsured residents. But so far only 18,800 people have signed up for the state's coverage, DirigoChoice. The story of Maine's health program may harbor lessons for the country, as efforts to cover the uninsured take center stage in nearly every state. A1 Obama's Religious Background Senator Barack Obama converted to Christianity as an adult after an upbringing that offered him a course in comparative religion but no belief to call his own. Now his ties to a controversial Chicago minister have become a delicate issue for him as a presidential candidate. A1 Freeway Collapses in Bay Area A tanker truck accident caused a freeway overpass near downtown Oakland to collapse, sending hundreds of feet of concrete crashing onto a highway below, injuring the driver of the tanker truck. The repairs are likely to complicate the lives of Bay Area commuters for months. A14 Democrats Divided Over Veto The Democratic presidential field is divided over how to respond to President Bush's expected veto of legislation setting a timeline for removing troops from Iraq. While the candidates agree that the war should be ended, they differ over how fast troops should be withdrawn. A16 Spokesman Returns to Work Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, is to return to work today, while undergoing chemotherapy after a five-week absence after having discovered his colon cancer had spread to his liver. A15 Wrong Suspect Copes With Loss The killing of the first victim of the Virginia Tech shootings, Emily Hilscher, initially drew suspicion to her boyfriend, Karl D. Thornhill. Although he was soon cleared of wrongdoing, he is still coping with losing his girlfriend and being suspected in her death. A14 NEW YORK/REGION B1-4 Patrons Take a Final Ride As Historic Stable Closes The Claremont Riding Academy, the oldest continuously operated stable in New York City, has officially closed its doors. What made Claremont unique was not so much what it was but where it was: in the heart of the Upper West Side. B1 Little Relief for Over-65 Set When Gov. Eliot Spitzer and legislative leaders announced $1.3 billion in new property tax relief, they did not mention that taxpayers 65 and older ended up with hardly any more money than they received last year under the plan. B1 An Artist's Legacy It would be impossible to mention Eddie Boros, an artist from the East Village who died on Friday, without describing his most visible work: a looming sculpture that rises 65 feet. The structure's survival over more than two decades has elevated it to the status of a neighborhood institution. B3 SPORTSMONDAY D1-10 Cardinals Pitcher Dies in Crash Josh Hancock, a relief pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals, died in an automobile accident. His death was being compared to the 2002 death of Cardinals starting pitcher Darryl Kile. D1 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 Deal for Telecom Italia Telefonica of Spain and a group of Italian investors agreed to buy a controlling stake in Telecom Italia, allowing the Spanish telecommunications giant to expand into Italy and Latin America. C1 Film Tests Appetite for Horror ''Hostel: Part II,'' a movie about the torture killing of college students, will serve as a test of the public's interest in graphic violence in the wake of killings at Virginia Tech. C1 Business Digest C2 OBITUARIES A19 Polly Hill A horticulturist who stretched the boundaries of plant hardiness, she was 100. A19 Michael Malone A tattoo artist renowned for helping popularize and standardize tattooing through vivid images of dragons, daggers and crests, he was 64. A19 EDITORIAL A20-21 Editorials: The amnesty sideshow; who's afraid of pay go?; Georgia's shame; bundling in the Capitol. Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman. Bridge E7 Crossword E2 Metro Diary B2 TV Listings E8 Weather B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RELIGION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); HEZBOLLAH (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (73%); BERTIE AHERN (67%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRELAND (93%); ISRAEL (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



623 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2593 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate, His Minister and the Search for Faith

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR; Reuben Kyama contributed reporting from Nyangoma-Kogelo, Kenya.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Members of Trinity United Church of Christ squeezed into a downtown hotel ballroom in early March to celebrate the long service of their pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. One congregant stood out amid the flowers and finery: Senator Barack Obama, there to honor the man who led him from skeptic to self-described Christian.
 Twenty years ago at Trinity, Mr. Obama, then a community organizer in poor Chicago neighborhoods, found the African-American community he had sought all his life, along with professional credibility as a community organizer and an education in how to inspire followers. He had sampled various faiths but adopted none until he met Mr. Wright, a dynamic pastor who preached Afrocentric theology, dabbled in radical politics and delivered music-and-profanity-spiked sermons.
 Few of those at Mr. Wright's tribute in March knew of the pressures that Mr. Obama's presidential run was placing on the relationship between the pastor and his star congregant. Mr. Wright's assertions of widespread white racism and his scorching remarks about American government have drawn criticism, and prompted the senator to cancel his delivery of the invocation when he formally announced his candidacy in February. 
 Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate who says he was only shielding his pastor from the spotlight, said he respected Mr. Wright's work for the poor and his fight against injustice. But ''we don't agree on everything,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I've never had a thorough conversation with him about all aspects of politics.''
 It is hard to imagine, though, how Mr. Obama can truly distance himself from Mr. Wright. The Christianity that Mr. Obama adopted at Trinity has infused not only his life, but also his campaign. He began his presidential announcement with the phrase ''Giving all praise and honor to God,'' a salutation common in the black church. He titled his second book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' after one of Mr. Wright's sermons, and often talks about biblical underdogs, the mutual interests of religious and secular America, and the centrality of faith in public life. 
 The day after the party for Mr. Wright, Mr. Obama stood in an A.M.E. church pulpit in Selma, Ala., and cast his candidacy in nothing short of biblical terms, implicitly comparing himself to Joshua, known for his relative inexperience, steadfast faith and completion of Moses' mission of delivering his people to the Promised Land. 
 ''Be strong and have courage, for I am with you wherever you go,'' Mr. Obama said in paraphrasing God's message to Joshua.
 It is difficult to tell whether Mr. Obama's religious and political beliefs are fused or simply run parallel. The junior senator from Illinois often talks of faith as a moral force essential for solving America's vexing problems. Like Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and John Edwards, his fellow Democratic candidates, he expresses both a political and a religious obligation to help the downtrodden. Like conservative Christians, he speaks of AIDS as a moral crisis. And like his pastor, Mr. Obama opposes the Iraq war.
 His embrace of faith was a sharp change for a man whose family offered him something of a crash course in comparative religion but no belief to call his own. ''He comes from a very secular, skeptical family,'' said Jim Wallis, a Christian antipoverty activist and longtime friend of Mr. Obama. ''His faith is really a personal and an adult choice. His is a conversion story.''
 The grandparents who helped raise Mr. Obama were nonpracticing Baptists and Methodists. His mother was an anthropologist who collected religious texts the way others picked up tribal masks, teaching her children the inspirational power of the common narratives and heroes. 
 His mother's tutelage took place mostly in Indonesia, in the household of Mr. Obama's stepfather, Lolo Soetoro, a nominal Muslim who hung prayer beads over his bed but enjoyed bacon, which Islam forbids. 
 ''My whole family was Muslim, and most of the people I knew were Muslim,'' said Maya Soetoro-Ng, Mr. Obama's younger half sister. But Mr. Obama attended a Catholic school and then a Muslim public school where the religious education was cursory. When he was 10, he returned to his birthplace of Hawaii to live with his grandparents and attended a preparatory school with a Christian affiliation but little religious instruction.
 Years later, Mr. Obama met his father's family, a mix of Muslim and Christian Kenyans. Sarah Hussein Obama, who is his stepgrandmother but whom Mr. Obama calls his grandmother, still rises at 5 a.m. to pray before tending to her crops and the three orphans she has taken in. 
 ''I am a strong believer of the Islamic faith,'' Ms. Obama, 85, said in a recent interview in Kenya. From Skepticism to Belief 
 This polyglot background made Mr. Obama tolerant of others' faiths yet reluctant to join one, said Mr. Wright, the pastor. In an interview in March in his office, filled with mementos from his 35 years at Trinity, Mr. Wright recalled his first encounters with Mr. Obama in the late 1980s, when the future senator was organizing Chicago neighborhoods. Though minister after minister told Mr. Obama he would be more credible if he joined a church, he was not a believer. 
 ''I remained a reluctant skeptic, doubtful of my own motives, wary of expedient conversion, having too many quarrels with God to accept a salvation too easily won,'' he wrote in his first book, ''Dreams From My Father.'' 
 Still, Mr. Obama was entranced by Mr. Wright, whose sermons fused analysis of the Bible with outrage at what he saw as the racism of everything from daily life in Chicago to American foreign policy. Mr. Obama had never met a minister who made pilgrimages to Africa, welcomed women leaders and gay members and crooned Teddy Pendergrass rhythm and blues from the pulpit. Mr. Wright was making Trinity a social force, initiating day care, drug counseling, legal aid and tutoring. He was also interested in the world beyond his own; in 1984, he traveled to Cuba to teach Christians about the value of nonviolent protest and to Libya to visit Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, along with the Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. Mr. Wright said his visits implied no endorsement of their views.
 Followers were also drawn simply by Mr. Wright's appeal. Trinity has 8,500 members today, making it the largest American congregation in the United Church of Christ, a mostly white denomination known for the independence of its congregations and its willingness to experiment with traditional Protestant theology. 
 Mr. Wright preached black liberation theology, which interprets the Bible as the story of the struggles of black people, whom by virtue of their oppression are better able to understand Scripture than those who have suffered less. That message can sound different to white audiences, said Dwight Hopkins, a professor at University of Chicago Divinity School and a Trinity member. ''Some white people hear it as racism in reverse,'' Dr. Hopkins said, while blacks hear, ''Yes, we are somebody, we're also made in God's image.'' Audacity and Hope 
 It was a 1988 sermon called ''The Audacity to Hope'' that turned Mr. Obama, in his late 20s, from spiritual outsider to enthusiastic churchgoer. Mr. Wright in the sermon jumped from 19th-century art to his own youthful brushes with crime and Islam to illustrate faith's power to inspire underdogs. Mr. Obama was seeing the same thing in public housing projects where poor residents sustained themselves through sheer belief. 
 In ''Dreams From My Father,'' Mr. Obama described his teary-eyed reaction to the minister's words. ''Inside the thousands of churches across the city, I imagined the stories of ordinary black people merging with the stories of David and Goliath, Moses and Pharaoh, the Christians in the lion's den, Ezekiel's field of dry bones,'' Mr. Obama wrote. ''Those stories -- of survival, and freedom, and hope -- became our story, my story.'' 
 Mr. Obama was baptized that year, and joining Trinity helped him ''embrace the African-American community in a way that was whole and profound,'' said Ms. Soetoro, his half sister.
 It also helped give him spiritual bona fides and a new assurance. Services at Trinity were a weekly master class in how to move an audience. When Mr. Obama arrived at Harvard Law School later that year, where he fortified himself with recordings of Mr. Wright's sermons, he was delivering stirring speeches as a student leader in the classic oratorical style of the black church. 
 But he developed a tone very different from his pastor's. In contrast with Mr. Wright -- the kind of speaker who could make a grocery list sound like a jeremiad -- Mr. Obama speaks with cool intellect and on-the-one-hand reasoning. He tends to emphasize the reasonableness of all people; Mr. Wright rallies his parishioners against oppressors. 
 While Mr. Obama stated his opposition to the Iraq war in conventional terms, Mr. Wright issued a ''War on Iraq I.Q. Test,'' with questions like, ''Which country do you think poses the greatest threat to global peace: Iraq or the U.S.?'' 
 In the 16 years since Mr. Obama returned to Chicago from Harvard, Mr. Wright has presided over his wedding ceremony, baptized his two daughters and dedicated his house, while Mr. Obama has often spoken at Trinity's panels and debates. Though the Obamas drop in on other congregations, they treat Trinity as their spiritual home, attending services frequently. The church's Afrocentric focus makes Mr. Obama a figure of particular authenticity there, because he has the African connections so many members have searched for.
 To the many members who, like the Obamas, are the first generation in their families to achieve financial success, the church warns against ''middleclassness,'' its term for selfish individualism, and urges them to channel their gains back into the community. 
 Mr. Obama has written that when he became a Christian, he ''felt God's spirit beckoning'' and ''submitted myself to His will and dedicated myself to discovering His truth.'' While he has said he shares core Christian beliefs in God and in Jesus as his resurrected son, he sometimes mentions doubts. In his second book, he admitted uncertainty about the afterlife, and ''what existed before the Big Bang.'' Generally, Mr. Obama emphasizes the communal aspects of religion over the supernatural ones. Bridging Religious Divides 
 He has said that he relies on Mr. Wright to ensure ''that I am speaking as truthfully about what I believe as possible.'' He tends to turn to his minister at moments of frustration, Mr. Wright said, such as when Mr. Obama felt a Congressional Black Caucus meeting was heavier on entertainment than substance.
 As a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama is reaching out to both liberal skeptics and committed Christians. In many speeches or discussions, he never mentions religion. When Mr. Obama, a former constitutional law professor, does speak of faith, he tends to add a footnote about keeping church and state separate.
 But he also talks of building a consensus among secular liberal and conservative Christian voters. Mr. Wallis, the antipoverty advocate who calls himself a ''progressive evangelical,'' first met Mr. Obama 10 years ago when both participated in traveling seminars on American civic life. On bus rides, Mr. Wallis and Mr. Obama would huddle, away from company like George Stephanopoulos and Ralph Reed, to plot building a coalition of progressive and religious voters. 
 ''The problems of poverty and racism, the uninsured and the unemployed, are not simply technical problems in search of the perfect 10 point plan,'' Mr. Obama says in one of his standard campaign lines. ''They are rooted in both societal indifference and individual callousness -- in the imperfections of man.'' 
 He often makes reference to the civil rights movement, when liberals used Christian rhetoric to win change.
 Mr. Obama reassures liberal audiences about the role of religion in public life, and he tells conservative Christians that he understands why abortion horrifies them and why they may prefer to curb H.I.V. through abstinence instead of condoms. AIDS has spread in part because ''the relationship between men and women, between sexuality and spirituality, has broken down, and needs to be repaired,'' he said to thunderous applause in December at the megachurch in California led by the Rev. Rick Warren, a best-selling author. 
 At the same time, Mr. Obama's ties to Trinity have become more complicated than those simply of proud congregation and favorite son. Since Mr. Obama announced his candidacy, the church has received threatening phone calls. On blogs and cable news shows, conservative critics have called it separatist and antiwhite.
 Congregants respond by saying critics are misreading the church's tenets, that it is a warm and accepting community and is not hostile to whites. But Mr. Wright's political statements may be more controversial than his theological ones. He has said that Zionism has an element of ''white racism.'' (For its part, the Anti-Defamation League says it has no evidence of any anti-Semitism by Mr. Wright.) 
 On the Sunday after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, Mr. Wright said the attacks were a consequence of violent American policies. Four years later he wrote that the attacks had proved that ''people of color had not gone away, faded into the woodwork or just 'disappeared' as the Great White West went on its merry way of ignoring Black concerns.'' Provocative Assertions 
 Such statements involve ''a certain deeply embedded anti-Americanism,'' said Michael Cromartie, vice president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a conservative group that studies religious issues and public policy. ''A lot of people are going to say to Mr. Obama, are these your views?''
 Mr. Obama says they are not. 
 ''The violence of 9/11 was inexcusable and without justification,'' he said in a recent interview. He was not at Trinity the day Mr. Wright delivered his remarks shortly after the attacks, Mr. Obama said, but ''it sounds like he was trying to be provocative.''
 ''Reverend Wright is a child of the 60s, and he often expresses himself in that language of concern with institutional racism and the struggles the African-American community has gone through,'' Mr. Obama said. ''He analyzes public events in the context of race. I tend to look at them through the context of social justice and inequality.''
 Despite the canceled invocation, Mr. Wright prayed with the Obama family just before his presidential announcement. Asked later about the incident, the Obama campaign said in a statement, ''Senator Obama is proud of his pastor and his church.'' 
 In March, Mr. Wright said in an interview that his family and some close associates were angry about the canceled address, for which they blamed Obama campaign advisers but that the situation was ''not irreparable.'' adding, ''Several things need to happen to fix it.'' 
 Asked if he and Mr. Wright had patched up their differences, he said: ''Those are conversations between me and my pastor.'' 
 Mr. Wright, who has long prided himself on criticizing the establishment, said he knew that he may not play well in Mr. Obama's audition for the ultimate establishment job.
 ''If Barack gets past the primary, he might have to publicly distance himself from me,'' Mr. Wright said with a shrug. ''I said it to Barack personally, and he said yeah, that might have to happen.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sarah Hussein Obama of Kenya, Barack Obama's stepgrandmother, is a lifelong Muslim. ''I am a strong believer of the Islamic faith,'' she says. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times)
In Chicago, Mr. Obama embraced Christianity under the tutelage of the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., known for sometimes inflammatory views. (Photo by Trinity United Church of Christ/Religion News Service)(pg. A18)
 Senator Barack Obama, speaking in March to an A.M.E. congregation in Selma, Ala., cast his presidential campaign in biblical terms. (Photo by Linda Stelter/Birmingham News, via Associated Press)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Trinity United Church of Christ (Chicago); Church-State Relations; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (93%) Jodi Kantor; Barack (Sen) Obama; Jeremiah a Jr (Rev) Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



624 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Green Vision

 BODY:
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bloomberg Draws a 25-Year Blueprint for a Greener City'' (news article, April 23): 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan for a greener and more sustainable city is important and potentially transformative for New York. 
 Transformations of life in the city have emerged from moments of economic, social or environmental crises such as the water shortages, fires and plagues of the 1830s, or the Moses-era ambition to meet the demands of building a modern and more economically productive city. Dramatic changes take place at times when most New Yorkers, along with a reform-minded business elite, feel that the city needs a radical new direction to thrive. 
 It is ironic that the relative economic prosperity that the Bloomberg administration has helped to foster, and its highly professional and at times socially detached, managerial approach to governance, might dampen the sense of urgency and connection that people feel toward the mayor's vision.
 If the past is any judge, these conditions will make it more difficult to overcome the political hurdles ahead for making the plan a reality. William D. Solecki Interim Director, CUNY Institute for Sustainable Cities New York, April 23, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



625 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: Governor Unveils Plan To Help Local Governments

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer announced yesterday that he would introduce legislation to lower costs for local governments, including changing a controversial law requiring multiple contractors for public construction projects. The law, called the Wicks Law, requires multiple contractors for projects costing more than $50,000, a threshold that has not been increased since the 1960s. The governor's proposal would increase the threshold to $1 million for projects upstate and $2 million for projects in New York City and would adjust the numbers annually for inflation. Other proposals include steps aimed at giving local governments more flexibility in procurement and allowing them to use administrative proceedings, rather than court action, to handle housing code violations. ''This bill will promote fiscal savings for our taxpayers, increase flexibility for our municipalities and ensure the long-term economic stability of our state,'' the governor said. DANNY HAKIM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007



626 of 626 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; THE EMPIRE ZONE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: While Spitzer and Bruno Do Battle, the Speaker Waits for an Opening

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's profile in the capital during the Spitzer administration has, at times, seemed lower than his voice, which registers so far down on the bass clef that Empire Zone has to lean in to hear. 
 And so it remained as Gov. Eliot Spitzer and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, skirmished last week. On Monday, the governor howled after Mr. Bruno rejected his proposed campaign finance reforms, and by the next morning, Mr. Spitzer was kicking off a statewide tour to bash Senate Republicans, beginning in Mr. Bruno's district upstate.
Albany's focus shifted abruptly on Wednesday, after the shooting of three state troopers -- one of whom died -- in the course of 24 hours. Mr. Bruno immediately made it his priority to reinstate the death penalty for those who murder law officers. Mr. Spitzer spent the rest of the week unveiling a host of proposals -- from strengthening New York's abortion laws to wresting control of the redistricting process from the Legislature -- while Mr. Bruno said he should focus on economic development and other issues. 
 Speaker Silver, above, contented himself to lie in the weeds. Having served a dozen years as former Gov. George E. Pataki's chief Democratic foil -- and as the party's loudest voice in the capital -- Mr. Silver has spent the first few months of the year largely trying to stay out of Mr. Spitzer's way. 
 ''When the rhetoric tones down a little bit I will try and bring the parties, again, together and see if we can engage in constructive dialogue,'' the speaker said on Wednesday morning, referring to campaign finance reform. 
 ''So you're the conciliator here?'' a reporter asked. 
 ''Always have been. I don't know why you have that doubt,'' Mr. Silver replied with a sly grin. ''My career is filled with conciliation.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MURDER (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); REDISTRICTING (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); ABORTION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2007

 
