

801 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Boutique Vintners Turn to Private Equity for Help

BYLINE: SARAH MAX


HIGHLIGHT: Bacchus Capital Management, co-founded by Sam Bronfman II, is providing financing and expertise to small winemakers. 

 BODY:
When Ed Sbragia started Sbragia Family Vineyards, it was an accomplishment that was nearly a century in the making.
His grandfather moved from Italy to California in 1904 to work in the wineries just north of San Francisco. In the 1940s, Mr. Sbragia's father bought property in the Dry Creek Valley near Healdsburg and planted zinfandel grapes, which he sold to local winemakers and used for his own home wine.
Mr. Sbragia, 64, got his start in the wine business at Beringer Vineyards, one of Napa Valley's oldest, and worked his way up to become one of the most decorated winemakers in the region.
He teamed up with his son Adam in 2002 to make limited lots of wine sourced primarily from the family property. When a small vineyard and facility 10 miles up the road went on the market in 2006, it was an opportunity he could not pass up. 
"All of a sudden a little project became a bigger project," said Mr. Sbragia, who stepped down from his full-time position at Beringer in 2008.
After the recession, however, Mr. Sbragia was at an impasse. His wine had been well received - selling out quickly in fact - but he faced a laundry list of expenses and few good options for financing them. He needed to buy more grapes, revamp his tasting room and replace his aging French oak barrels, at a cost of $1,000 each.
Meanwhile, Mr. Sbragia needed help with various aspects of the business. Finance, distribution, marketing and sales "are not my expertise," he said. "I make wine."
In 2011, he found an unlikely partner in Bacchus Capital Management, a private equity group co-founded by Sam Bronfman II, the grandson of Seagram's founder. The firm, which has offices in New York and San Francisco, invests exclusively in wineries and wine-related businesses.
In 2007, it raised $40 million for its first fund, which is now nearly fully invested with $2 million to $7 million stakes in more than half a dozen West Coast wineries, including the racecar driver Mario Andretti's Andretti Winery in Napa Valley and Wine by Joe in the Willamette Valley in Oregon. The firm is contemplating another fund, this time in the $100 million to $200 million range.
For many people, private equity conjures the image of ruthless financiers with a singular focus on profit. Bacchus Capital's two other founding partners, Peter S. Kaufman and Henry F. Owsley, have done their share of hard-nosed restructuring deals through their boutique investment bank, the Gordian Group. The wine fund takes a much kinder approach.
"We're big on the concept of partnering with talented entrepreneurial winemakers, who are faced with 'how do I get my wines sold,' " said Mr. Bronfman, who was previously chairman of Diageo Global Wines and president of Seagram Chateau and Estate Wines. "We free up these incredibly talented winemakers to do what they do best."
The idea for a private equity wine fund was born when Mr. Bronfman, 59, left Diageo in 2003 and set out to create his own portfolio of premium wineries. For help, he turned to Mr. Kaufman, an expert in mergers and acquisitions and a friend since childhood.
"He can go in and get a feel for these winemakers from a totally different perspective than someone from the wine business," Mr. Bronfman said.
It was Mr. Kaufman's partner, Mr. Owsley, who suggested they start a wine fund that would offer debt financing in addition to private equity.
The fund initially got off to a slow start on the equity side. Before the financial crisis, valuations for premier wineries "were more than we could stomach," Mr. Kaufman said. Wineries were selling for the equivalent of 12 to 15 times trailing Ebida (earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization). Today, valuations have fallen, while there is still a dearth of capital.
"Unless you're a Mondavi with huge enterprise brand value, banks are primarily lending on a formula," Mr. Kaufman said. "If you're not in their box, there's no money."
Yet for high-quality producers with the right distribution model, the fundamentals are sound, he said. Wine consumption in the United States has been steadily increasing for the last couple of decades, according to the Wine Market Council, and remained robust during the recession.
Bacchus Capital partners think there is still plenty of potential for growth, particularly when it comes to premium wines. Meanwhile, wineries that can improve their direct-to-consumer distribution through wine clubs and tasting room sales also have tremendous potential, Mr. Bronfman said. Although traditional distribution channels, like restaurants and retailers, are still critical, they can reduce margins by as much as a third, he noted.
"People laugh when they first hear we have a fund that invests in wineries," Mr. Kaufman said. "A well-run high-end winery should have gross margins in the 60 percent range and Ebida margins in the 20 percent to 25 percent range." To put that in perspective, he said, in traditional manufacturing "you're lucky if you get Ebida margins of 10 percent."
Convincing artisan vintners - wary of losing control - of the benefits of a private equity investment was initially a challenge. In addition to concerns about how the operation would change with outside investors, there was the question of exit strategy. "Each of these wineries is special; these are not widget factories," Mr. Kaufman said. "There will be no one formula for exit."
Joe Dobbes counted himself among the skeptics of private equity. Mr. Dobbes founded Wine by Joe in 2002 with $50,000 and managed to expand his winery in Dundee, Ore., into one of the largest in the state, producing 130,000 cases last year.
Meeting one of Bacchus's managing directors at an industry event caused him to revise his impression of private equity. In 2011, he tested the waters with debt financing and then closed on an equity deal earlier this year.
"I felt I had taken the company as far as I personally could," said Mr. Dobbes, who is, among other things, looking to expand his brand outside the Pacific Northwest and improve his direct-to-consumer sales.
While the infusion of capital certainly helps, perhaps a bigger factor was the reputation and expertise that come with the partnership. "I got with this a team of coaches who have been in the industry for years," Mr. Dobbes said.
Less than two years after teaming up with Bacchus Capital, Mr. Sbragia is satisfied with the results. The partnership allowed him to bring in a general manager, industry veteran Steve Cousins, invest in new equipment and improve direct-to-consumer sales by 20 percent last year. He and his son are spending more time thinking about making wine and less time worrying about long-term budgets and marketing plans.
For Mr. Sbragia, sharing a stake in the winery was no easy decision.
"One thing I felt very strong about was that I had a group of people working for me and I needed to protect them," said Mr. Sbragia, who spoke with more than a dozen individuals or entities about investing in the winery before teaming up with Bacchus.
"There were people who wanted 100 percent of the company and I would be a hired hand."
While he would like to grow - last year he produced 16,000 cases and would like to increase that to 24,000 in the next couple of years - he doesn't want to do so at the expense of the quality of the wine or his family's legacy.
"We're a family-owned Dry Creek winery and want to stay there," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINERIES (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%) Financial Services; Food & Beverage; Private Equity

COMPANY: SEAGRAM CHATEAU & ESTATE WINES CO (60%); DIAGEO PLC (50%)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (50%); DGE (LSE) (50%); DEO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (60%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (60%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013



802 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: De Blasio Proposes Housing Plan Focused on Affordability

BYLINE: STEPHEN FARRELL


HIGHLIGHT: Bill de Blasio, a Democratic candidate for mayor, called for construction of 100,000 affordable homes for low-income New Yorkers in the next decade and preservation of a like number of existing units. He also wants to make developers participate. 

 BODY:
Amid the community churches and boutique cupcake shops of a gentrifying Brooklyn neighborhood, Bill de Blasio, a candidate for mayor, on Thursday proposed a housing plan in response to what he described as a "growing crisis of affordability" in New York City. 
The Race for City Hall
Mr. de Blasio, the city's public advocate, called for 100,000 affordable homes for low-income New Yorkers to be built over the next 10 years, and a similar number of existing housing units to be preserved. He also proposed to dedicate $1 billion from the city's pension fund investments to affordable housing, and to make it mandatory for developers in rezoned areas to include affordable housing in any new project, or to contribute to a fund for such homes.
"The real estate industry will be crucial to this equation, but the city has to steer the ship, not the industry, if we are going to create the affordability that we desperately need," he said. "We want to get a lot more back for the public."
Mr. de Blasio's focus on citywide housing, his choice of Williamsburg as a backdrop for his announcement, and his repeated criticisms of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg were tailored to fit what has become his candidacy's theme, that New York has become a "tale of two cities," divided between rich and poor.
Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, is vying for his party's nomination with several other current and former city officials, including Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; John C. Liu, the current comptroller; and William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller. The primary is Sept. 10, and, if necessary, a runoff will be on Sept. 24; the winner will face the Republican nominee in the general election, on Nov. 5.
On the campaign trail Mr. de Blasio has sought to portray himself as a candidate for all five boroughs, and has derided Ms. Quinn as a Manhattan-focused candidate too close to real estate developers.
Barbara Garner, 56, a resident of the Williamsburg street where Mr. de Blasio spoke, said that while she preferred Mr. Thompson as a candidate, she agreed with Mr. de Blasio's message that developers must provide more inexpensive homes.
"I think he's a good candidate, I do, but they are all good when they are talking the talk," Ms. Garner said. "What happens when the race is over? Are they going to live up to their promises?"

        
Mayoral Candidates Quizzed on Use of Drones
        
At Forum, Animosity and Jeers for Quinn
        
Democratic Candidates Criticize Disciplining of City's Students
        
Quinn Loses Popularity, but Retains Lead in Mayoral Race, Poll Finds
        
In Winning Design, City Hopes to Address a Cramped Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ZONING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (55%) Affordable Housing; de Blasio, Bill; New York City; Williamsburg (Brooklyn, NY); Housing & Economy; NYC 2013

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) de Blasio, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Williamsburg (Brooklyn, NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



803 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Chief of Unit Overseeing Britain's Bailout Investments Resigns

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Jim O&#8217;Neil, who as chief of United Kingdom Financial Investments has been in charge of the British government&#8217;s stakes in two bailed-out banks, will rejoin Bank of America Merrill Lynch. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Jim O'Neil, who has been in charge of the British government's stakes in Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, resigned on Thursday to return to Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. 
Mr. O'Neil had been the chief executive of United Kingdom Financial Investments, the Treasury unit set up in 2008 to recoup the government's investments in banks that had to be bailed out during the financial crisis. The office has yet to name a successor. 
 Mr. O'Neil, an American, will rejoin Bank of America Merrill Lynch as co-head of the global financial institutions advisory business later this year. He will stay in London and run the unit together with William Egan, who is based in New York.
It is taking longer than initially expected to sell the British government's 82 percent stake in R.B.S. and 40 percent in Lloyds. The market value of the investments in the two banks continues to be below the government's initial investment costs. The debt crisis in the euro zone and banking scandals, including the improper sale of an insurance product to clients that could not benefit from it, has delayed the banks' recovery and weighed on their share prices.
Pressure has increased lately to come up with a new plan for the government's holdings in the bailed out banks as some lawmakers became impatient. Some politicians suggested breaking up Royal Bank of Scotland, while others said the government should hand out shares directly to taxpayers.
Mr. O'Neil has been meeting regularly with the boards of both banks to ensure that their strategies were in the interest of British taxpayers and the government.
The Treasury unit said in a statement that it saw the role of the U.K.F.I. "as critical in maximizing the value of its shareholdings in R.B.S. and Lloyds Banking Group and in returning both banks to the private sector."
Before joining U.K.F.I. as head of market investments in 2010, Mr. O'Neil was head of corporate finance outside the Americas at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

        
With R.B.S. Settlement, Legal Tab for Banks Grows and Grows
        
Guilty Plea and Big Fine for Bank in Rate Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); EURO CRISIS (71%); SCANDALS (66%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Great Britain; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; Royal Bank of Scotland PLC; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); LYG (NYSE) (85%); LLOY (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



804 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires Clash Over Socialite's Child Support Claims

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A Wall Street financier claims that his former lover&#8217;s current partner aided her in hiding her true wealth before a Hong Kong court proceeding. 

 BODY:
As an accomplished mountaineer who has scaled many of the world's highest peaks, including Mount Everest, Annabelle Bond has found herself in some dicey situations.
Now she finds herself in a very different sort of predicament - a nasty legal fight between a former lover and her current one.
Her boyfriend, Andrew Cader, a former Goldman Sachs executive and part owner of the Tampa Bay Rays baseball franchise, is accused of conspiring with Ms. Bond to hide her true financial condition so that she could secure more than $50,000 a month in child support payments last December from the Wall Street financier Warren G. Lichtenstein, who has a 5-year-old daughter with the British socialite.
Ms. Bond deviously obtained the outsize child support from a Hong Kong court to "improve upon her already extraordinary life of luxury, privilege and modest fame," contends the lawsuit, which was filed by Mr. Lichtenstein in Federal District Court in Manhattan. 
That Ms. Bond lives an extraordinary life of luxury and privilege is not in dispute. The daughter of Sir John R. H. Bond, the former chairman of the global banking giant HSBC, Ms. Bond, 43, has traveled the world as a mountain climber and extreme athlete. (The lawsuit derisively calls her a "self-described 'activist and adventurer.' ") Her family has homes in London, Hong Kong, Florida and Aspen, Colo.
Mr. Lichtenstein said that in order to help Ms. Bond conceal her actual economic condition and obtain inflated child support payments, Mr. Cader disguised as loans millions of dollars in cash gifts he had given her.
Mr. Cader also characterized the disbursements as loans to avoid paying gift tax in the United States, according to the complaint.
"The case was brought to prevent an injustice and reflects Warren's deep concern for the welfare of his child," said Stanley Arkin, the lawyer for Mr. Lichtenstein.
Mr. Cader and Ms. Bond did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Though Mr. Lichtenstein's lawsuit was filed in New York and raises questions about a Hong Kong court ruling, the origins of the case trace to Aspen, the ski-resort town and favorite second or third home for the Wall Street elite.
Mr. Lichtenstein, Mr. Cader and Ms. Bond all have homes in Aspen, which is where Ms. Bond met Mr. Lichtenstein, who has one child from a previous marriage. The two were once engaged but never married; their relationship ended amicably in 2007, just months before their daughter's birth.
"He is an amazing guy, but I think that sometimes it's better to have one happy parent than two unhappy ones," Ms. Bond told The Evening Standard newspaper in London at the time.
Mr. Lichtenstein, 47, made his fortune through his New York-based hedge fund, Steel Partners, which he started in 1992 and last year became a publicly traded company. Known in financial circles as combative and litigious, Mr. Lichtenstein buys large stakes in underperforming companies and agitates for change. Among his holdings are WebBank, a Utah-based financial company, and the industrial business Handy & Harman.
This is the second time this year that Mr. Lichtenstein, a native of Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, has appeared in the press because of his personal life. The gossip papers were recently filled with rumors that he was dating the reality television personality and entrepreneur Bethenny Frankel, who is in the middle of a messy public divorce. The two are old friends and not romantically involved, a person briefed on with the matter said.
Mr. Lichtenstein's courtroom adversary, Mr. Cader, 54, started his career as a floor broker on the New York Stock Exchange for Spear, Leeds & Kellogg. In 1997, he took over as co-chief executive of the firm and earned hundreds of millions of dollars when Goldman Sachs acquired Spear Leeds for about $6.5 billion in 2000.
(A skilled musician, Mr. Cader moonlighted as a percussionist while trading, and has a credit for playing rub-board on the 1985 Talking Heads album, "Little Creatures.")
He and several of his former Spear Leeds colleagues bought the Rays in 2004. Though some of them play an active role in the team's management, Mr. Cader has a small, passive stake. Mr. Cader, who has a child from a previous marriage, owns a jet, a Dassault Falcon 50, which he uses to travel among homes in Hong Kong, Aspen and Mount Kisco, N.Y. He, too, knows Ms. Bond from Aspen.
Around the time they met, Ms. Bond became locked in a legal dispute with Mr. Lichtenstein over the support of their daughter. The dispute took an ugly turn, according to the lawsuit, when Ms. Bond moved with their daughter to Hong Kong - "a jurisdiction that was half a world away," according to the complaint.
Mr. Lichtenstein says he then learned that Ms. Bond and their daughter had moved into a home in Hong Kong's upscale Strawberry Hill neighborhood. Mr. Cader was renting the home for $26,000 a month and structured it as a loan to Ms. Bond, she told Mr. Lichtenstein - and more than $3.5 million in cash was also described as a loan, according to the complaint.
"These representations are false," the complaint says. "The cash gifts and lease payments from Mr. Cader - who on information and belief has a net worth of hundreds of millions of dollars - were gifts to his longtime paramour, Ms. Bond."
Mr. Lichtenstein argues that the Hong Kong court relied on Ms. Bond's lies in awarding her $41,800 a month in child support, plus school, tutoring, medical, travel and other substantial expenses. That amount, Mr. Lichtenstein claims, "is one of the largest - if not the largest - child support ever issued by a Hong Kong court."
He did not name Ms. Bond, a resident of Hong Kong, as a defendant, but took aim at her dating history. "Ms. Bond has gone from one millionaire lover to another," the complaint says, "spending millions of dollars of their money to support her lavish lifestyle, and has then moved on to her next wealthy lover or lovers to support her and finance her litigation efforts."
According to her Web site, in 2005 Ms. Bond became the fastest woman and the fourth-fastest person ever to reach all "seven summits," the highest peaks on each continent, having accomplished the feat in less than a year.
She has given talks at numerous Wall Street firms about her climbing exploits, including Morgan Stanley, Blackstone Group and Credit Suisse. On her Twitter feed on Thursday, she made no mention of the lawsuit, but posted a photo of herself at the top of Mount Everest.
"Nearly my summit of Everest anniversary," she wrote. "My respects to the mother goddess."
A picture caption on Friday with an article about a legal battle between two financiers, Warren G. Lichtenstein and Andrew Cader, over child support payments to Annabelle Bond, Mr. Lichtenstein's former girlfriend and Mr. Cader's current one, misidentified, in some copies, the day on which Mr. Lichtenstein filed suit against Mr. Cader. It was Wednesday, not Thursday.

        
New York to Sue Bank of America and Wells Fargo Over Settlement Violations
        
Houlihan Lokey Hires Lazard Banker to Lead Its Asian Unit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); MOUNTAINS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BONDS (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BASEBALL (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); RESORTS (67%); SKIING (66%); GIFT TAX (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%) Bond, Annabelle; Cader, Andrew; Child Custody and Support; High Society and Socialites; Hong Kong; Lichtenstein, Warren G; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Lichtenstein, Warren G

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MOUNT EVEREST (92%); HIMALAYAS (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



805 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 5279 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (through May 26) William Matthew Prior (1806-73), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician too. He was also an abolitionist who, at some risk to his reputation, painted portraits of black people; they are among his best works. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
&#x2605; Asia Society: 'The Artful Recluse: Painting, Poetry, and Politics in 17th-Century China' (through June 2) With the fall of the Ming dynasty in 1644, China's intellectual elite, many of them artists who worked in the imperial government, were thrown into a tailspin. Confucian ethics demanded filial devotion to the old regime. But how were they to demonstrate it? One way was to remove themselves from active life and signal their resistance through art. How they did so is the subject of this compellingly fine-grained painting show. Some artists sacrificed their lives for principles; others used recluse status as a career move. The emotional weight, psychological depth, and intellectual complexity of the work of this time is what comes through here. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Fine Lines: American Drawings From the Brooklyn Museum' (through May 26) Although marred by the tone-deaf exhibition design usual to this museum, the first large display of American drawings from its collection spans over 150 years with more than 100 sheets and six sketchbooks. Well-known artists like Winslow Homer, Ralph Blakelock and Louise Nevelson are well represented, but less familiar figures like Joseph Frank Currier, Louis Bouché and Chaim Gross contribute equally to its excellence. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
The Frick Collection: 'Piero della Francesca in America' (through May 19) Reuniting six panels from an altarpiece by Piero, this ravishing show approximates an intimate quattrocento chapel in the Frick's grand Oval Room. At the center of the installation is a seventh painting, the Clark Art Institute's ''Virgin and Child Enthroned With Four Angels,'' which comes from a different altarpiece in the painter's hometown, Sansepolcro, and exemplifies Piero's uncanny orchestration of figures, architecture and religious symbolism. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Gutai: Splendid Playground' (through May 8) The first large, in-depth examination of Japan's best-known postwar art movement is a mind-shifting event that brings together all the mediums it encompassed, brilliantly interwoven. The eccentrically made paintings suggest that Japan produced Abstract Expressionism's strongest second generation, the artists who most convincingly and directly extended Pollock's innovative drip technique. But the show reveals little-known precedents for Happenings, Minimalism and various strains of Post-Minimalism. It should permanently dislodge any notion of postwar modernism as a strictly Western phenomenon. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: The Hugo Boss Prize 2012: Danh Vo' (through May 27) Known mostly for attenuated, elliptical works, this year's Hugo Boss recipient opts for density and robustness with a display of some 4,000 items that once belonged to the artist Martin Wong (1946-99). Installed wonder-cabinet style in a shelf-lined gallery, the items range from art to artifact to tchotchkes; leap across cultures; and trickle from high to low, where racial stereotypes and kitsch frequently take over. It gives us an artist who has decided to function as a curator and an archaeologist and to keep the honor of his prize in motion. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'No Country: Contemporary Art for South and Southeast Asia' (through May 22) American museums are increasingly collecting contemporary art from outside the Western Hemisphere, and the Guggenheim, supported by the financial corporation UBS is leading the pack. This inaugural show in the acquisitions campaign highlights work from South and Southeast Asia. Certain artists -- like Amar Kanwar, from India, and Araya Rasdjarmrearnsook, from Thailand -- have international reputations. Others, like the sculptor Tang Da Wu, from Singapore, and the painter Aung Myint, Myanmar, both born in 1940s, are less familiar. Nearly all the work of the roughly two dozen artists refers in partisan, political and personal ways to specific histories. The inclusion of those histories in our art museums is long, long overdue. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)
International Center of Photography: 'Roman Vishniac Rediscovered' (through May 5) After World War II, Roman Vishniac's widely published photographs of Orthodox Jews living in Eastern Europe in the 1930s came to signify in popular imagination the human essence of what the Nazis' genocidal program destroyed. Drawn from an archive of more than 30,000 items donated to the museum over the past two decades by his daughter, Mara Vishniac Kohn, this exhibition rounds out and fills in Vishniac's story. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Japan Society: 'Edo Pop: The Graphic Impact of Japanese Prints' (through June 9) Contemporary provocateurs could learn a thing or two from the venerable artists in ''Edo Pop,'' who mixed high and low culture in arch and urbane ways. In this show's 100 or so ukiyo-e, or color woodblock prints (drawn from the collection of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts), valiant samurai turn out to be Kabuki actors in costume; refined landscapes depict well-trodden tourist sites; and images of classical beauties accompanied by poems are more often than not portraits of courtesans. These spirited images bring to life Edo Japan's ''floating world,'' a sort of Renaissance of popular entertainment. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'James Nares: Street' (through May 27) Far from pedestrian, this show revolves around a ravishing, 61-minute video projection by the artist James Nares. Called ''Street,'' it consists of long, slow-motion pans of people going about their business on the sidewalks and streets of New York City. To go with it, Mr. Nares combed through the museum's permanent collection and came up with a fascinating array of thematically related photographs, prints, paintings and drawings having largely to do with human and vehicular traffic. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Velázquez's Portrait of Duke Francesco I d'Este: A Masterpiece from the Galleria Estense, Modena' (through July 14) This single-painting exhibition highlights a portrait made at a delicate diplomatic moment during the Thirty Years' War; the painting is on loan to the Met in part because the museum that normally houses it, the Galleria Estense in Modena, is repairing damage from a 2012 earthquake in the region. It's a chance to see another commanding Velázquez at this already well-stocked museum, and to appreciate that this artist's politically savvy portraits are more than just tools of statesmanship. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity' (through May 27) The title may suggest a double-dose of pandering, but the show itself is a stunning combination of great paintings, ravishing gowns, historical clarity and pitch-perfect contextualizing. Demonstrating how the Impressionists and more conservative painters alike used the latest fashions to define their sitters as real people, it builds fascinating webs of new information and viewpoints around some of the best-known, most beloved paintings of all time, quite a few of which don't often travel to this country. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Degas, Miss La La and the Cirque Fernando' (through May 12) Viewers catching their first glimpse of ''Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando'' will tend to agree with an early Degas biographer who called the painting ''one of his most surprising canvases.'' But after a close look at this curious 1879 picture of an aerialist hanging from a rope by her teeth (on loan from the National Gallery in London, and displayed with related studies, sketchbooks, circus programs and other ephemera), they will recognize Degas's skeptical eye and classical perspective on modern entertainment. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through to Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (through May 26) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum: 'Jay DeFeo: A Retrospective' (through June 2) The American artist DeFeo, who died in 1989 at 60, is famous for a single work, a gargantuan painting -- nearly 12 feet tall -- called ''The Rose,'' which she labored on exhaustingly for eight years, even after it had been extracted out of her San Francisco studio with a forklift. In the absence of other evidence, many people tend to see the piece as the sum of her accomplishment, but to this view the Whitney's tenderly shaped and visually absorbing survey says: No. There's more, and different. ''The Rose'' may have been the pivot point of her career -- DeFeo herself said as much -- but streams of inventive, if less spectacular work, work flowed toward it and from it. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
&#x2605; Yael Bartana: 'And Europe Will Be Stunned' (through May 4) A hit at the last Venice Biennale, this video trilogy now forms an impressive New York gallery for its Israel creator. Superbly carried out, it presents a strangely perfect, perfectly disturbing, yet ineffably wry confusion of ideology, geography, propaganda and history. Its narrative concerns a kind of reverse Zionism intended to return Jews to Poland, includes a young leader, his funeral and a 1930s-style kibbutz, built by wholesome-looking youths on ground where the Warsaw ghetto once stood. Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, Chelsea , (212) 608-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Joshua Marsh: 'As If' and Johannes DeYoung: 'Ego Loser' (through May 4) Mr. Marsh makes uncommonly beautiful paintings of ordinary objects. With an exquisitely sensuous touch and using luminous colors, he isolates, simplifies and flattens things like pitchers, brooms and dustpans to the brink of pure yet sumptuous abstraction. Mr. DeYoung's ''Ego Loser'' is a darkly comical, claymation-style video projection in which a hideous man utters self-help and mantras from low-end sources. Jeff Bailey Gallery, 625 West 27th Street, (212) 989-0156, baileygallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Scott Olson' (through May 4) Scott Olson's abstract paintings look fragile and ethereal, even though they can be traced back to vigorous physical processes. Mr. Olson, who is based in Ohio, builds his own frames from local trees, and works in a combination of oil, wax and marble dust on wood. He strips down his surfaces as often as he builds them up, painting in brightly colored, irregular shapes and then sanding into near oblivion. This split personality adds intrigue to what would otherwise be modest little throwbacks to early modernism. Wallspace, 619 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 594-9478, wallspacegallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: SoHo
Giosetta Fioroni: 'L'Argento' (through June 3) This first American survey of Giosetta Fioroni reveals that we still have much to learn about postwar Italian art, despite recent gallery exhibitions of Lucio Fontana, Piero Manzoni, Giorgio Griffa, Gianni Colombo and Luigi Ghirri and museum shows of Michelangelo Pistoletto and Alighiero Boetti. In the silvery, evanescent paintings, drawings and films of Ms. Fioroni, who was born in Rome in 1932, we see how American Pop's celebrities and commodities took on new meanings in a post-fascist society. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
'Albrecht Dürer: Master Drawings, Watercolors, and Prints from the Albertina' (through June 9) Albrecht Dürer had it all: the eye of a Raphael, the brains of a Leonardo, the looks of a cleaned-up Kurt Cobain. Traditionally, the category of great artist implies great painter, and Dürer was that, though there's reason to think that he was at his most inventive, involved and expansive in his works on paper. Evidence for that argument is in this startlingly generous loan exhibition of more than 100 works on paper that includes some of his best known images. National Gallery of Art, on the National Mall, between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Great and Mighty Things: Outsider Art From the Jill and Sheldon Bonovitz Collection' (through June 9) One good turn generates another: the gift of a beloved, finely calibrated collection of American outsider art to a major encyclopedic museum is celebrated with an equally excellent exhibition of same. It displays around 200 paintings, sculptures, drawings and assemblages, made mostly from the 1930s to the '80s by 27 outsiders, both renowned and less prominent. All are seen here at or close to their best, pressing against the increasingly unjustifiable division between outsider and inside. 2600 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
'Pre-Raphaelites: Victorian Art and Design, 1848-1900' (through May 19) A large and well-done survey of paintings, drawings, books, furnishings, textiles and even stained glass includes such classics as John Everett Millais's ''Ophelia'' and Henry Wallis's ''Chatterton.'' It also enables a clear assessment of England's ever-popular mid-19th-century art movement, whose legacy is fittingly full of contradictions. Using brazenly modern colors, the brotherhood nonetheless turned toward the past, fashioning a nostalgic, literary, costume-heavy, clichéd style that demeaned women. The best works here are the landscapes, which are unfortunately in short supply. National Gallery of Art, on the National Mall between Third and Seventh Streets NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Smith)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Robert Bordo: 'Three Point Turn' (closes on Saturday) Several of the best paintings in this outstanding show explore the artist's usual confusion of painterly fact and pictorial ambiguity by conflating the picture plane with the windshield of a car, often seen on rainy nights. In images of active windshield wipers or lozenge-shaped rearview mirrors, center lines break and red lights multiply for an effect that is deliciously and darkly comic, but also abstract and rather ham-handedly beautiful. Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 367-7474, alexanderandbonin.com. (Smith)
David Diao: 'TMI' (closes on Saturday) Postmasters, one of Chelsea's few consensus-aversive spaces, is leaving the neighborhood, and on just the right note, with a survey of work by the painter David Diao, who first showed at the gallery in 1985. In his work Mr. Daio has been teasing, rebuking, adoring and dissing the formal and institutional history of modern art for all these decades, and here we see him in action from 1991 to 2013, with wry, needle-sharp, passive-aggressive homages to Duchamp, Barnett Newman, MoMA, the current art market and himself. It's good to know that wherever Postmasters lands -- and it will -- he'll be there too. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com. (Cotter)
&#x2605; 'Faith Ringgold's America: Early Works and Story Quilts' (closes on Saturday) A veritable mini-retrospective covering nearly 50 years gives some indication of the innovative and prescient ways this multitalented artist has juggled message and form, high and low, art and craft, inspirational narrative and quiet or not-so-quiet fury about racial and sexual inequality. The biggest revelations are her implacable paintings from the 1960s, which blend Pop, Social Realism and several kinds of abstraction and sometimes presage current forms of language art. ACA Galleries, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-8080, acagalleries.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Philip Guston: 'A Centennial Exhibition' (closes on Saturday) On the 100th anniversary of the birth of Philip Guston, Abstract Expressionism's best-known apostate, this large exhibition includes one of his last abstractions but concentrates on the indelible figurative work of his last decade -- the 1970s -- which did so much to inspire the painters of the 1980s. Several paintings are refreshingly unfamiliar, including ''Alfie in Small Town,'' which commemorates a placid West Highland terrier who once called this gallery home. McKee Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 688-5951, mckeegallery.com. (Smith)
Jon Kessler: 'The Web' (closes on Sunday) With all his usual bells and whistles, as well as some new ones, Jon Kessler nimbly mocks the art world's techno-dependency in his kinetic multimedia installation ''The Web.'' It's best experienced with a smartphone or tablet in hand; visitors who download the related app will experience a kind of short-circuited social network in which shared images stay on-site instead of zooming around the Internet -- the closest thing art may have, in this moment, to a captive audience. Swiss Institute, 18 Wooster Street, between Grand and Canal Streets, SoHo, swissinstitute.net. (Rosenberg)
Justin Matherly: 'All industrious people' (closes on Saturday) The concrete casts in Mr. Matherly's first solo at Paula Cooper are modeled on stone reliefs from Mount Nemrud, an excavated temple in Turkey. Mr. Matherly seems most interested in its iconography of power transmitted through touch; his steles show the Hellenistic king Antiochus I receiving divine authority through handshakes with the gods. At the same time, a platform made of metal walkers suggests weakness and precariousness; nearby, smudged inkjet monoprints based on photographs reduce the features of the Nemrud site to blurry abstractions. Paula Cooper Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (closes on Monday) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' has been on view at this museum since the fall, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. It's rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (closes on Wednesday) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Modernist Art From India: Radical Terrain' (closes on Monday) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (closes on Sunday) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (closes on Sunday) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Joe Zucker: 'Empire Descending a Staircase' (closes on Saturday) This is something of a comeback show for one of the most restless and ambitious painters to emerge from the 1970s, who habitually combines eccentric painting processes with weird subject matter and weirder materials. On crumbling drywall in lush tones of gray, his latest works depict the fluted columns and capitals -- usual to important buildings since the Greeks -- in a state of collapse. You can almost see the dust rising. Mary Boone Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ETHICS (65%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



806 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Granta Editor Will Step Down

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
John Freeman, the American-born editor of the London-based literary quarterly Granta, has announced that he is departing the magazine, effective July 15. Mr. Freeman, 38, became Granta's American editor in 2008 and assumed the top post in 2009. He most recently oversaw the publication of the decennial ''Best of Young British Novelists'' issue, with 20 writers 40 years of age or younger, which has become the magazine's global calling card. 
''I loved this job, but I always felt five years would be a kind of marker, and it was,'' Mr. Freeman wrote in an e-mail sent on Thursday while he was flying from Seattle to New York. ''There's a next stage now, though,'' he added. ''And as the books I've been meaning to write are beginning to crowd to the front of my mind, it felt time to leave.''
Mr. Freeman has a book coming out in the fall called ''How to Read a Novelist'' and said he is also finishing a book of essays, tentatively titled ''The Alphabet of American Poetry.'' Beyond that, there is ''hopefully a collection of poems,'' he wrote. ''I'll also go back to reviewing a bit more, which I have missed,'' and will teach a writing course at Columbia University this fall.
Under Mr. Freeman, a former president of the National Book Critics Circle, Granta has significantly raised its international profile. Founded in 1889 as a literary magazine at Cambridge University, it now publishes editions in several languages, including Chinese, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Norwegian; new editions in Turkish and Swedish are about to begin publication.
In addition, the magazine, whose publisher is the Swedish heiress and philanthropist Sigrid Rausing, has greatly expanded its online presence during his tenure, and reshaped its look, while continuing to seek out and promote new writers. In a harsh economic climate, Mr. Freeman noted, he has also succeeded in ''reducing the magazine's losses drastically, in half basically.''
''The great thing about Granta is it's always felt to me like a kind of Trojan Horse for new writers,'' he added. ''I feel like the horse is in the keep now, and so it's time to sit back and watch.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



807 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: George W. Bush's Remarks at His Presidential Library Dedication

 BODY:
The following is the text of former President George W. Bush's remarks at his presidential library dedication in Dallas on Thursday, as transcribed by Federal News Service.
MR. BUSH: Thank you all. Please be seated. Oh, happy days. (Laughter.) I want to thank you all for coming. Laura and I are thrilled to have so many friends -- I mean, a lot of friends here to celebrate this special day. There was a time in my life when I wasn't likely to be found at a library, much less found one. (Laughter.)
Beautiful building has my name above the door, but it belongs to you. It honors the cause we serve and the country we share. For eight years, you gave me the honor of serving as your president, and today I'm proud to dedicate this center to the American people. (Applause.) 
I am very grateful to President Obama and Michelle for making this trip. (Applause.) Unlike the other presidents here, he's actually got a job. (Laughter.) President, thank you for your kinds words and for leading the nation we all love. (Applause.) I appreciate my fellow members of the former presidents club -- 42, 41 and 39. I want to thank you all for your kind words and the example you have set. (Applause.)
Alexander Hamilton once worried about ex-presidents wandering among the people like discontented ghosts. (Laughter.) Actually, I think we seem pretty happy. (Laughter.) One reason for that, we have wonderful first ladies at our side. (Applause.)
Hillary and Rosalynn, thank you for your service and your generosity.
Mother and Laura, you know how I feel. (Laughter.)
Condi introduced the world leaders with whom I had the privilege to serve. You're good friends, and I'm honored to have you here in the Promised Land.
I want to welcome the members of Congress -- Mr. Speaker, appreciate you coming -- and the diplomatic corps. I know you will all be happy to hear that this speech is a lot shorter than the State of the Union. (Laughter.)
I thank the governors, governor of our own home state and the other governors, mayors, state and local officials who have joined us.
I welcome members of my Cabinet, the White House staff and administration, especially Vice President Dick Cheney. (Applause.) From the day I asked Dick to run with me, he served with loyalty, principle and strength. Proud to call you friend. (Applause.)
History's going to show that I served with great people -- a talented, dedicated, intelligent men -- team of men and women who love our nation as much as I do.
I want to thank the people who have made this project a success. President Gerald Turner runs a fantastic university -- (applause) -- a university with active trustees, dedicated faculty and a student body that is awesome. (Cheers, applause, laughter.)
I want to thank David Ferriero, Alan Lowe and the professionals at the National Archives and Records Administration who have taken on a major task, and I am confident you all will handle it.
I appreciate the architects, landscapers and designers, especially Bob Stern, Michael Van Valkenburgh and Dan Murphy. I want to thank the folks of Manhattan Construction as well as all the workers who built a fine facility that will stand the test of time.
I thank the fantastic team at the George W. Bush Center, headed by Mark Langdale and Jim Glassman and my longtime pal Donny Evans. Much to the delight -- much to the delight of the folks who worked on this project, we have raised enough money to pay our bills. We have -- (applause) -- we have over 300,000 contributors from all 50 states, and Laura and I thank you from the bottom of our hearts. (Applause.)
This is the first time in American history that parents have seen their son's presidential library. Mother, I promise to keep my area clean. (Laughter.) You know, Barbara Bush taught me to live life to the fullest, to laugh a lot and to speak my mind, a trait that sometimes got us both into trouble.
Dad taught me how to be a president. Before that, he showed me how to be a man. And '41, it is awesome that you are here today. (Cheers, applause.) I welcome -- I welcome my dear brothers and sister, as well as in-laws, cousins, nephews, nieces, uncles -- all of you for joining us. Our family has meant more to me than anything, and I thank you for making it so.
Not so long ago this campus was home to a beautiful West Texan named Laura Welch. When she earned her degree in library science, I'm not sure this day's exactly what she had in mind. (Laughter.) She's been a source of strength and support and inspiration ever since we met in the O'Neills' backyard in Midland, Texas. One of the joys of the presidency was watching Laura serve as first lady. The American people rightly love her, and so do I. (Applause.)
Laura's going to be even better in her next role: grandmother. (Laughter.) It was a joy -- I can't tell you what a joy it was to hold little Mila, and I am really happy that Mila's mother and father, Jenna and Henry, could make it here today. Thank you all for coming. (Applause.)
So if you don't have anything to do in the morning, tune in to the ''Today Show.'' Jenna's the correspondent, thereby continuing the warm relations the Bush family has with the national press. (Laughter, applause.)
And I'm really proud of Barbara, who's with us, for her incredible work to serve others and to save lives. (Applause.)
Today marks a major milestone in a journey that began 20 years ago, when I announced my campaign for governor of Texas. Some of you were there that day. I mean, a lot of you were there that day. I picture you looking a little younger. You probably picture me with a little less gray hair. In politics, you learn who your real friends are. And our friends have stood with us every step of the way.
And today's a day to give you a proper thanks.
In democracy, the purpose of public office is not to fulfill personal ambition. Elected officials must serve a cause greater than themselves. The political winds blow left and right. Polls rise and fall. Supporters come and go. But in the end, leaders are defined by the convictions they hold.
And my deepest conviction, the guiding principle of the administration, is that the United States of America must strive to expand the reach of freedom. (Applause.) I believe that freedom is a gift from God and the hope of every human heart. Freedom inspired our founders and preserved our union through civil war and secured the promise of civil rights. Freedom sustains dissidents bound by chains, believers huddled in underground churches and voters who risk their lives to cast their ballots. Freedom unleashes creativity, rewards innovation and replaces poverty with prosperity. And ultimately, freedom lights the path to peace.
Freedom brings responsibility. Independence from the state does not mean isolation from each other. A free society thrives when neighbors help neighbors and the strong protect the weak and public policies promote private compassion. As president, I tried to act on these principles every day. It wasn't always easy, and it certainly wasn't always popular.
One of the benefits of freedom is that people can disagree. It's fair to say I created plenty of opportunities to exercise that right. (Laughter.)
But when future generations come to this library and study this administration, they're going to find out that we stayed true to our convictions -- (applause) -- that we expanded freedom at home by raising standards in schools and lowering taxes for everybody -- (applause) -- that we liberated nations from dictatorship and freed people from AIDS and that when our freedom came under attack, we made the tough decisions required to keep the American people safe. (Applause.)
The same principles define the mission of the presidential center. I'm retired from politics -- happily so, I might add -- but not from public service. We'll use our influences to help more children to start life with a quality education, to help more Americans find jobs and economic opportunity, to help more countries overcome poverty and disease, to help more people in every part of the world live in freedom.
We'll work to empower women around the world to transform their countries, stand behind the courageous men and women who have stepped forward to wear the uniform of the United States to defend our flag and our freedoms here at home.
Ultimately, the success of a nation depends on the character of its citizens. As president, I had the privilege to see that character up close. I saw it in the first responders who charged up the stairs into the flames to save people's lives from burning towers. I saw it in the Virginia Tech professor who barricaded his classroom door with his body until his students escaped to safety. I saw it in the people of New Orleans that made homemade boats to rescue their neighbors from the floods, saw it in the service members who laid down their lives to keep our country safe and to make other nations free.
Franklin Roosevelt once described the dedication of a library as an act of faith. I dedicate this library with an unshakable faith in the future of our country. It was the honor of a lifetime to lead a country as brave and as noble as the United States. Whatever challenges come before us, I will always believe our nation's best days lie ahead. God bless.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); LIBRARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



808 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, MARK SCOTT and JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
U.S. URGES CURBS ON PAYDAY LOANS Federal regulators on Thursday urged some of the nation's largest banks to put restrictions on payday-style loans tied to customers' checking accounts. The guidance from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation urged the banks, including Wells Fargo and U.S. Bank, to ensure that borrowers can repay the loans, which otherwise can mire customers in debt and result in a fees that can push interest rates above 300 percent. ''For too many consumers, payday and deposit advance loans are debt traps,'' Richard Cordray, above, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said in a report on Wednesday. JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG 
K.K.R. PROFIT BEATS EXPECTATIONS Kohlberg Kravis Roberts posted after-tax economic net income of $647.7 million for the first quarter, surpassing analysts' expectations. K.K.R.'s latest results, together with those of its rival, the Blackstone Group, signal that a relatively strong climate remains in place for private equity firms, which still draw much of their earnings from buying and selling companies. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
SANTANDER INCOME FALLS 26% Banco Santander said on Thursday that first-quarter net profit fell 26 percent, hurt by continuing troubles in Spain and a slowdown in developing economies. Santander, the largest Spanish bank, said net income fell to 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from 1.6 billion euros in the period a year earlier, missing analysts' estimates. ''Profit in 2013 will be significantly higher than the 2.29 billion euros registered in 2012,'' the bank's chairman, Emilio Botín, left, said in a statement. MARK SCOTT
CHIEF OF BAILOUT UNIT RESIGNS Jim O'Neil is stepping down as chief executive of United Kingdom Financial Investments, the Treasury unit set up in 2008 to recoup the British government's investments in banks that had to be bailed out during the financial crisis. Mr. O'Neil, an American, will rejoin Bank of America Merrill Lynch as co-head of the global financial institutions advisory business later this year and run the unit together with William Egan. JULIA WERDIGIER
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (92%); SANT (BIT) (92%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); SAN (NYSE) (92%); SAN (MCE) (92%); SAN (BMV) (92%); BNC (LSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (83%); BX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%)

PERSON: EMILIO BOTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (85%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



809 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Data Shows Fewer Layoffs, But Hiring Is Still Sluggish

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits fell last week to a seasonally adjusted 339,000, the second-fewest in more than five years. The drop in jobless claims suggests that layoffs have declined and that job growth may pick up from last month's sluggish pace. 
Applications for benefits dropped 16,000, the Labor Department said Thursday. The four-week average declined 4,500 to 357,500.
Jobless claims are a proxy for layoffs. When they decline, it signals that companies are cutting fewer jobs.
Still, layoffs are only half the equation. Businesses also need to be confident enough in the economy to step up hiring. Many companies have been advertising more jobs but have been slow to fill them. Job openings jumped 11 percent during the 12 months that ended in February, but the number of people hired declined, according to a Labor Department report this month.
The still-uncertain economy has made many companies reluctant to hire. Some employers appear to be holding out for perfect job candidates. In particular, companies say they cannot find enough qualified candidates for high-skilled manufacturing and engineering jobs.
Still, most economists were encouraged by Thursday's report on unemployment benefits, though some cautioned against reading too much into one week's data. ''The downtrend in unemployment remains on track,'' said Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.
In March, employers added only 88,000 jobs. That was a sharp drop from the previous four months, when hiring averaged 220,000 a month.
The unemployment rate fell to a four-year low of 7.6 percent in March from 7.7 percent in February. But the drop occurred because more people out of work stopped looking for jobs. The government does not count people as unemployed unless they are actively looking for work.
More than five million Americans received unemployment aid in the week ending April 6, the latest data available. That is about 80,000 fewer than the previous week. Some recipients may no longer receive benefits because they have found jobs. But many have used up all the benefits available to them.
The economy is expected to have grown at a much quicker pace in the January-March quarter, and the government will give its first estimate on growth in the nation's gross domestic product on Friday. Many economists forecast that growth accelerated to an annual rate of more than 3 percent in the first quarter, up from just a 0.4 percent rate in the fourth quarter.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TRENDS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%); ENGINEERING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



810 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: As Evictions Rise, Bronx Program Offers Second Chance for Families in Need

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
People evicted for not paying their rent do not usually get a second look, let alone a second chance, from their landlords.
But Marta Sabater, a single mother of two, got back the key to her Bronx apartment last month after New York City hired a legal and social service agency to take on her case in housing court, and help her obtain more than $6,000 in public subsidies to pay past due rent.
''No other family should go through what I went through,'' said Ms. Sabater, 42, brushing away tears at her lawyer's office. ''I'll always remember that I got a second chance, and that there was hope and something out there to help me.'' 
The Sabater family has benefited from an aggressive new strategy by the Department of Homeless Services to support families with children who have been evicted. Though the city has long worked to prevent tenants from losing their homes, the new program is one of the first efforts nationally to create a housing plan as a last resort for poor families who have exhausted all other options, according to city officials and housing advocates.
The effort, which is just getting under way, comes as the number of tenants being evicted is rising citywide -- a disproportionate number of them in the Bronx. That has forced the city to open additional homeless shelters, which are expensive to operate and controversial in some communities.
Since January, the department has partnered with the Bronx Housing Court to help 95 families that have been evicted, providing free legal representation as well as expedited access to public benefits and rental subsidies. Of those families, more than half are in the process of returning to their apartments or finding new ones. Another one-fifth have already moved back home.
''This is the last chance for people who have not taken advantage of other efforts or those efforts did not happen to work out,'' said Seth Diamond, commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services. ''The important thing for us is we don't give up. We want to keep people in their community and in their homes.''
The city started the post-eviction effort in the Bronx, and plans to expand it to Brooklyn and Queens. Last year, the Bronx had 10,966 evictions and other legal measures to remove tenants, up nearly 12 percent from the year before. In comparison, there were far fewer cases in more populous boroughs, with 8,514 in Brooklyn, 4,606 in Queens and 3,776 in Manhattan. Across the city, there was a 4 percent increase from the year before.
Housing court judges, lawyers and tenant advocates have praised the city's new post-eviction strategy, saying that it focuses attention and resources on a desperate and overlooked group of tenants who often lack the knowledge and skills to seek help on their own, and who might otherwise fall through the cracks. They say that it also benefits landlords because it provides them with a way to recoup their financial losses, and saves them the trouble of having to look for a new tenant.
Mitchell Posilkin, the general counsel for the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents 25,000 owners of rent-stabilized apartments citywide, said that landlords do not oppose such efforts as long as they are not being forced to take back evicted tenants. ''One of the realities with the passage of time is that apartments could have been re-rented to other families,'' he said.
On a recent afternoon in court, Judge Jaya K. Madhavan, supervising judge of the Bronx Housing Court, reviewed a stack of paperwork and then looked at a tenant standing nervously in front of him. ''You're going to go back to your apartment right now,'' the judge told him.
The tenant, Jessie Moya, and his family had been evicted from a one-bedroom apartment in January and since then had been staying with a relative.
Mr. Moya, 42, said after the court hearing that rent would no longer be a problem since he started working again after being unemployed for five months. The family received more than $6,800 in subsidies to pay rent to their landlord, and have qualified for an additional $900 a month in rental assistance. ''Now I can buy what I need for the kids, for the apartment,'' he said.
Families cannot apply directly for the post-eviction help, but instead must be referred by housing court judges, homeless services officials and job centers.
During the first year of the program, city officials have spent $156,000 on a contract with the Neighborhood Association for Inter-Cultural Affairs, a legal and social service agency in the Bronx, to help evicted tenants. Officials said the cost would be more than paid back with savings from having fewer families in shelters. In February, 40 percent of the 1,928 families who applied for city shelters were from the Bronx.
Ms. Sabater said that if not for the post-eviction help, her family would still be living out of backpacks at a shelter. She moved into a one-bedroom apartment in 2011 when she worked as a home health care aide, and struggled to stay after her hours were cut. Ms. Sabater applied for welfare, and was placed in a seasonal park maintenance job, earning $1,000 a month after taxes. The rent alone was $994.
Soon she was falling behind on bills. In February, she was evicted. But a Bronx housing court judge referred Ms. Sabater to the new program, even adding his own personal plea: ''Hopefully you can help.''
Now settled back into her old apartment, she has held onto the judge's note, and plans to frame it so that she will always be reminded of her second chance.
''Everything turned around and here we are,'' said Ms. Sabater, as her 10-year-old daughter hugged her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marlene Valarezo, left, helped Marta Sabater, center, with housing paperwork. At right, Jessie Moya, with his wife, Yvonne Poll, after a court appearance. They all moved back into their apartments. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); EVICTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (79%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); CITIES (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); JUDGES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



811 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Senate Moves to Stop Air Controller Furloughs and Prevent Travel Delays

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Driven by bipartisan concerns over mounting airport delays, the Senate reached agreement on Thursday night to give the secretary of transportation enough flexibility to bring the nation's air traffic control system back up to full strength.
The legislation, which passed unanimously before the Senate left town for the next week, would allow as much as $253 million to be moved from other parts of the Transportation Department to the Federal Aviation Administration. Advocates said that should be enough to stop further furloughs and keep the air traffic control system operating at a normal pace through Sept. 30, the end of the current fiscal year. 
But the impact of $85 billion in across-the-board spending cuts, which went into effect March 1, continues to ripple through other parts of the government, with a broader intervention nowhere in sight.
''I am so happy that we were able to work together across the aisle in a bipartisan way to solve this problem,'' said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who helped spearhead the last-minute negotiations. ''It's nice to know when we work together we really can solve problems.''
Republicans -- and some Democrats -- have been pushing for much of the month for a rescue of the air traffic control system, charging that President Obama was intentionally extracting maximum pain on the traveling public to illustrate the costs of the cuts, called sequestration.
But lawmakers who wanted a separate budget rescue for the F.A.A. met resistance from some lawmakers who questioned why the nation's air travel merited special treatment when children are being thrown out of Head Start, food safety inspections are being curtailed and checks to the long-term unemployed are shrinking. With those cuts largely invisible to most Americans, some Democrats argued that mounting delays at airports might be the only pressure point left to force Republicans to negotiate a broader deal to reverse the cuts, with a mix of spending cuts and revenue increases.
By Thursday, that position had become unsustainable. The agency said that the furloughs of air traffic controllers caused more than 863 delays on Wednesday because of short-staffed radar rooms that handle high-altitude traffic in New York, Cleveland, Jacksonville and Los Angeles and at radar offices handling lower-level traffic around Washington, Dallas, Southern California and at a tower in Detroit. It reported more than 2,132 additional delays because of weather and other factors.
But the number of delays understates the inconveniences caused to passengers at airports, some of which were using public address systems to say the delays were caused by the automatic spending cuts required by the sequester.
The union that represents equipment technicians said Thursday that when part of the instrument landing system failed at Long Island MacArthur Airport, a Southwest Airlines flight had to be diverted to Baltimore this week. Normally such equipment is restored immediately, the union said, but because of furloughs, it was fixed the following day. It listed other disruptions because of delays in fixing broken equipment.
The F.A.A. said Wednesday that there had been 1,025 delays on Tuesday attributable to staff shortages and 975 delays from other causes, including weather. On Monday, the first weekday of sequester-level staffing, the agency said there were 1,200 delays because of short staffing and 1,400 because of weather.
Republicans accused the administration of mismanagement of the cuts, at best, and intentional infliction of pain at worst.''At some point, we have to admit the best thing is to find another $2 trillion in debt reduction by looking at revenue, closing some loopholes and bringing down the debt with some spending cuts, but not ones like this,'' Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, said Thursday.
The House will be in session on Friday before also heading for a one-week break and is expected to clear the bill under mounting pressure. Because the measure does not add to the deficit, its prospects are strong. The bill approved by the Senate says that should the House pass a bill with identical language, it will be considered passed by both houses and sent to the president for his signature.
But House action on a broader deal to undo the across-the-board cuts appears remote. House conservatives say much of the impact has been exaggerated by the White House, and they have relished the success of forcing visible spending cuts on a Democratic administration.
''I think it's the first time we've saved money in Washington, D.C.,'' said Representative Raúl Labrador, Republican of Idaho. ''I think we need to move on from the subject.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (92%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (77%); AVIONICS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INSPECTIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); FOOD SAFETY (63%); AIRCRAFT LANDING SYSTEMS (50%); FOOD INSPECTION (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: SUSAN COLLINS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



812 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5529 words

HEADLINE: Federal Spigot Flows as Farmers Claim Bias

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Sarah Cohen contributed reporting, and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
In the winter of 2010, after a decade of defending the government against bias claims by Hispanic and female farmers, Justice Department lawyers seemed to have victory within their grasp.
Ever since the Clinton administration agreed in 1999 to make $50,000 payments to thousands of black farmers, the Hispanics and women had been clamoring in courtrooms and in Congress for the same deal. They argued, as the African-Americans had, that biased federal loan officers had systematically thwarted their attempts to borrow money to farm.
But a succession of courts -- and finally the Supreme Court -- had rebuffed their pleas. Instead of an army of potential claimants, the government faced just 91 plaintiffs. Those cases, the government lawyers figured, could be dispatched at limited cost.
They were wrong. 
On the heels of the Supreme Court's ruling, interviews and records show, the Obama administration's political appointees at the Justice and Agriculture Departments engineered a stunning turnabout: they committed $1.33 billion to compensate not just the 91 plaintiffs but thousands of Hispanic and female farmers who had never claimed bias in court.
The deal, several current and former government officials said, was fashioned in White House meetings despite the vehement objections -- until now undisclosed -- of career lawyers and agency officials who had argued that there was no credible evidence of widespread discrimination. What is more, some protested, the template for the deal -- the $50,000 payouts to black farmers -- had proved a magnet for fraud.
''I think a lot of people were disappointed,'' said J. Michael Kelly, who retired last year as the Agriculture Department's associate general counsel. ''You can't spend a lot of years trying to defend those cases honestly, then have the tables turned on you and not question the wisdom of settling them in a broad sweep.''
The compensation effort sprang from a desire to redress what the government and a federal judge agreed was a painful legacy of bias against African-Americans by the Agriculture Department. But an examination by The New York Times shows that it became a runaway train, driven by racial politics, pressure from influential members of Congress and law firms that stand to gain more than $130 million in fees. In the past five years, it has grown to encompass a second group of African-Americans as well as Hispanic, female and Native American farmers. In all, more than 90,000 people have filed claims. The total cost could top $4.4 billion.
From the start, the claims process prompted allegations of widespread fraud and criticism that its very design encouraged people to lie: because relatively few records remained to verify accusations, claimants were not required to present documentary evidence that they had been unfairly treated or had even tried to farm. Agriculture Department reviewers found reams of suspicious claims, from nursery-school-age children and pockets of urban dwellers, sometimes in the same handwriting with nearly identical accounts of discrimination.
Yet those concerns were played down as the compensation effort grew. Though the government has started requiring more evidence to support some claims, even now people who say they were unfairly denied loans can collect up to $50,000 with little documentation.
As a senator, Barack Obama supported expanding compensation for black farmers, and then as president he pressed for $1.15 billion to pay those new claims. Other groups quickly escalated their demands for similar treatment. In a letter to the White House in September 2009, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, a leading Hispanic Democrat, threatened to mount a campaign ''outside the Beltway'' if Hispanic farmers were not compensated.
The groups found a champion in the new agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack. New settlements would provide ''a way to neutralize the argument that the government favors black farmers over Hispanic, Native American or women farmers,'' an internal department memorandum stated in March 2010.
The payouts pitted Mr. Vilsack and other political appointees against career lawyers and agency officials, who argued that the legal risks did not justify the costs.
Beyond that, they said it was legally questionable to sidestep Congress and compensate the Hispanic and female farmers out of a special Treasury Department account, known as the Judgment Fund. The fund is restricted to payments of court-approved judgments and settlements, as well as to out-of-court settlements in cases where the government faces imminent litigation that it could lose. Some officials argued that tapping the fund for the farmers set a bad precedent, since most had arguably never contemplated suing and might not have won if they had.
''The fund is not politically accessible, it is only legally accessible,'' said David Aufhauser, the Treasury Department's general counsel from 2001 to 2003. ''Otherwise, it is a license to raid the till.''
A 2010 settlement with Native Americans was contentious for its own reasons. Justice Department lawyers argued that the $760 million agreement far outstripped the potential cost of a defeat in court. Agriculture officials said not that many farmers would file claims.
That prediction proved prophetic. Only $300 million in claims were filed, leaving nearly $400 million in the control of plaintiffs' lawyers to be distributed among a handful of nonprofit organizations serving Native American farmers. Two and a half years later, the groups have yet to be chosen. It is unclear how many even exist.
The Times's examination was based on thousands of pages of court and confidential government documents, as well as interviews with dozens of claimants, lawyers, former and current government officials and others involved in the cases over the past 14 years. Many officials spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing rules against disclosing internal government deliberations and, in a few cases, the desire not to be drawn into a racially charged controversy.
Mr. Vilsack has said the compensation effort ushers in ''a new chapter of civil rights at U.S.D.A.,'' where ''we celebrate diversity instead of discriminate against it.''
In an interview, he said the payments had been fully justified and carefully controlled. Fraud has been a ''really, really small part of it,'' he added, pointing out that so far, three of every 10 claims had been rejected and only three claimants had been convicted of fraud.
''We weren't just writing checks for the heck of it,'' Mr. Vilsack said. ''People were not treated fairly, and in fact, even today there are damages as a result of folks who weren't treated fairly.''
Acting Associate Attorney General Tony West, who supervised the civil division and oversaw the handling of the cases, canceled an interview. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. also declined to comment.
Instead, the department provided senior officials, permitted to speak only on the condition of anonymity, who said that resolving the lawsuits averted potentially higher costs from an onslaught of new plaintiffs or losses in court. They also said the attorney general had broad discretion to settle litigation. ''It was a priority for the administration to resolve the long-standing discrimination cases,'' a senior official said, and give ''farmers who believed they had been discriminated against a chance to seek redress.'' Career Justice Department lawyers, who participated in that interview, declined to answer when asked if they favored the outcome of their cases, saying their advice is confidential by law.
Senior White House and Justice Department officials also defended the use of the Judgment Fund. ''Questions were certainly raised about whether this was something you could use the Judgment Fund to pay for,'' a senior White House official said. ''They considered the relevant legal standards and concluded it was.''
Mr. Vilsack blamed disgruntled Agriculture Department employees for the criticism of the payouts, saying some simply refused to acknowledge the pervasiveness of discrimination. ''There are a lot of agendas here, and you are opening up a Pandora's box,'' he said.
But critics, including some of the original black plaintiffs, say that is precisely what the government did when it first agreed to compensate not only those who had proof of bias, but those who had none. ''Why did they let people get away with all this stuff?'' asked Abraham Carpenter Jr., who farms 1,200 acres in Grady, Ark. ''Anytime you are going to throw money up in the air, you are going to have people acting crazy.''
Farmers Claim Discrimination
Farmers routinely borrow money to carry themselves from high-cost planting season to harvest time; lack of credit can lead to barren fields. The original lawsuit, Pigford v. Glickman, filed in federal court in Washington in August 1997, argued that the Agriculture Department's credit bureau, now called the Farm Service Agency, routinely denied or limited loans to black farmers while freely distributing them to whites.
Two government reports that year found no evidence of ongoing, systemic discrimination. The Government Accountability Office reported that 16 percent of minority farmers were denied loans, compared with 10 percent of white farmers, but traced the difference to objective factors like bad credit. An Agriculture Department study also found ''no consistent picture of disparity'' over the previous two years.
But the study concluded that decades of discrimination before then had cost African-American farmers significant amounts of land and income. Black farmers gave heart-rending accounts of loan officers who withheld promised money while crops withered, who repossessed their land and sold it to white cronies, who advised them to milk cows for white farmers rather than sow their own crops.
Written discrimination complaints had fallen on deaf ears at the Agriculture Department, where the civil rights office had been disbanded during the Reagan administration.
John W. Boyd Jr., a Virginia farmer who leads the National Black Farmers Association, was among those who pressed President Bill Clinton to settle the case. At a White House meeting in December 1997, Mr. Boyd said, he recounted how a loan officer denied him $7,500 and then handed a $150,000 check to a white farmer who had not even filled out an application.
The same loan officer spat at him, he said, and later claimed that he had missed a spittoon. It was, Mr. Boyd said in an interview, ''the most degrading thing that ever happened to me.''
Just five months after the lawsuit was filed, and without the investigative step of discovery, the Justice Department opened settlement negotiations.
There were certainly legal reasons to resolve the case. The presiding federal judge, Paul L. Friedman, was clearly unsympathetic to the government's arguments. Moreover, the Justice Department was barred from appealing his certification of the lawsuit as a class action until after the case was over. That set the stage for a potentially long and costly battle.
Still, ''it was more a political decision than a litigation decision,'' said one lawyer familiar with the administration's stance. ''The administration was genuinely sympathetic to the plight of these farmers.''
Mr. Clinton asked Carol Willis, then a senior adviser to the Democratic National Committee who was known for his expertise in black voter turnout, to get involved. Mr. Willis said the president wanted to make sure his home state, Arkansas, benefited. Mr. Willis said he recruited Othello Cross, a Pine Bluff lawyer, to join the plaintiffs' legal team.
''It had been wrong for many years,'' Mr. Willis said. ''Clinton figured he had to try to right it.''
So did Judge Friedman.
He initially limited the class of potential claimants to African-Americans who had farmed between 1981 and 1996 and had previously filed written discrimination complaints. But his final order significantly expanded the class, admitting those who had only ''attempted to farm.'' And it threw out the requirement for a written bias complaint, stating that an oral complaint was sufficient if someone other than a family member attested to it in an affidavit.
The Agriculture Department was partly to blame for the lack of records. It routinely discarded failed loan applications after three years, and it had badly mismanaged written discrimination complaints. Ninety percent of the farmers had no records either, plaintiffs' lawyers said.
The billion-dollar settlement, the judge's opinion said, was designed to provide ''those class members with little or no documentary evidence with a virtually automatic cash payment of $50,000.'' Those with documentary proof could seek higher awards, a tack ultimately chosen by fewer than 1 percent of applicants.
Justice Department lawyers worried about false claims. But the lawyer familiar with the Clinton administration's stance said they had decided that ''it was better to err on the side of giving money to people who might not qualify if they went through litigation than to deny money to people who actually deserve it.''
Randi Roth, the settlement's court-appointed monitor, said that whatever its shortcomings, the accord charted the most efficient legal remedy where records no longer existed. ''The formula they agreed to had the checks and balances of an adversarial process with multiple levels of review,'' she said.
John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia Law School professor and specialist in complex litigation, said that not requiring documentary evidence ''was quite unusual, but there were also special circumstances.''
Still, he said, ''I don't think they realized how much of an incentive they were creating for claims to multiply. It is a little bit like putting out milk for a kitten.
''The next night, you get 15 kittens.''
'It Just Went Wild'
Delton Wright, a Pine Bluff justice of the peace, recalled what happened after word of the settlement reached his impoverished region: ''It just went wild. Some people took the money who didn't even have a garden in the ground.'' He added, ''They didn't make it hard at all, and that's why people jumped on it.''
Mr. Wright, whose family owns farmland outside Pine Bluff, won his claim. So did two other applicants whose claims were virtually identical to his, with the same rounded handwriting, the same accusations of bias and similar descriptions of damages suffered.
Now 57, with his memory weakened by what he said was a recent stroke, Mr. Wright said he could not recall details of the discrimination he encountered, much less explain the apparent duplicate claims.
But Mr. Cross, the Pine Bluff lawyer, has his suspicions. ''It got out of control,'' said Mr. Cross, adding that he had filed about 1,500 claims, including Mr. Wright's and the apparent duplicates. He estimated that up to 15 percent of Arkansas claims were fraudulent.
Claimants described how, at packed meetings, lawyers' aides would fill out forms for them on the spot, sometimes supplying answers ''to keep the line moving,'' as one put it.
Even his own staff was complicit, Mr. Cross said; he discovered that four employees had been slipping unverified claims into stacks of papers that he signed. He did not inform the court monitor, he said, because ''the damage was done.''
On two floors of the Cotton Annex building in Washington, a 300-member team from the Farm Service Agency reviewed claims before adjudicators rendered their final decisions. In recent interviews, 15 current and former Agriculture Department employees who reviewed or responded to claims said the loose conditions for payment had opened the floodgates to fraud.
''It was the craziest thing I have ever seen,'' one former high-ranking department official said. ''We had applications for kids who were 4 or 5 years old. We had cases where every single member of the family applied.'' The official added, ''You couldn't have designed it worse if you had tried.''
Carl K. Bond, a former Agriculture Department farm loan manager in North Carolina, reviewed thousands of claims over six years.
''I probably could have got paid,'' said Mr. Bond, who is black. ''You knew it was wrong, but what could you do? Who is going to listen to you?''
Accusations of unfair treatment could be checked against department files if claimants had previously received loans. But four-fifths of successful claimants had never done so. For them, ''there was no way to refute what they said,'' said Sandy Grammer, a former program analyst from Indiana who reviewed claims for three years. ''Basically, it was a rip-off of the American taxpayers.''
The true dimensions of the problem are impossible to gauge. The Agriculture Department insists that the names and addresses of claimants are protected under privacy provisions. But department data released in response to a Freedom of Information request by The Times are telling. The data cover 15,601 African-Americans who filed successful claims and were paid before 2009.
In 16 ZIP codes in Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi and North Carolina, the number of successful claimants exceeded the total number of farms operated by people of any race in 1997, the year the lawsuit was filed. Those applicants received nearly $100 million.
In Maple Hill, a struggling town in southeastern North Carolina, the number of people paid was nearly four times the total number of farms. More than one in nine African-American adults there received checks. In Little Rock, Ark., a confidential list of payments shows, 10 members of one extended family collected a total of $500,000, and dozens of other successful claimants shared addresses, phone numbers or close family connections.
Thirty percent of all payments, totaling $290 million, went to predominantly urban counties -- a phenomenon that supporters of the settlement say reflects black farmers' migration during the 15 years covered by the lawsuit. Only 11 percent, or $107 million, went to what the Agriculture Department classifies as ''completely rural'' counties.
A fraud hot line to the Agriculture Department's inspector general rang off the hook. The office referred 503 cases involving 2,089 individuals to the F.B.I.
The F.B.I. opened 60 criminal investigations, a spokesman said, but prosecutors abandoned all but a few for reasons including a lack of evidence or proof of criminal intent. Former federal officials said the bar for a successful claim was so low that it was almost impossible to show criminality.
In Arkansas, prosecutors rejected a test case against a Pine Bluff police officer who had admitted lying on his claim form. Paula J. Casey, the United States attorney in Arkansas in 2000, said that singling out one individual raised questions of selective prosecution.
''The defendant could go to the jury and say: 'Everybody else did this. Why am I standing here?' '' she said.
The claim period ended in late 1999, although the adjudication process dragged on for a dozen years. But the gusher of claims had only begun.
''Once those checks started hitting the mailboxes, people couldn't believe it,'' said Mr. Wright, the Pine Bluff justice of the peace. ''Then it dawned on them. 'If Joe Blow got a check, I can get one.' ''
Lawmakers Turn Up the Heat
Some 66,000 claims poured in after the 1999 deadline. Noting that the government had given ''extensive'' notice, Judge Friedman ruled the door closed to late filers. ''That is simply how class actions work,'' he wrote.
But it was not how politics worked. The next nine years brought a concerted effort to allow the late filers to seek awards. Career Agriculture Department officials warned that they might be even more problematic than initial claimants: in one ZIP code in Columbus, Ohio, nearly everyone in two adjoining apartment buildings had filed, according to the former high-ranking agency official.
President George W. Bush was unreceptive to farmers' repeated protests. But Congress was not: legislators from both parties, including Mr. Obama as a senator in 2007, sponsored bills to grant the late filers relief.
Mr. Boyd said Mr. Obama's support led him to throw the backing of his 109,000-member black farmers' association behind the Obama presidential primary campaign. Hilary Shelton, the N.A.A.C.P.'s chief lobbyist, said Mr. Obama's stance helped establish him as a defender of the concerns of rural African-American communities.
Public criticism came primarily from conservative news outlets like Breitbart.com and from Congressional conservatives like Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, who described the program as rife with fraud. Few Republicans or Democrats supported him. Asked why, Mr. King said, ''Never underestimate the fear of being called a racist.''
Congress finally inserted a provision in the 2008 farm bill allowing late filers to bring new lawsuits, with their claims to be decided by the same standard of evidence as before. The bill also declared a sense of Congress that minority farmers' bias claims and lawsuits should be quickly and justly resolved.
Congress overrode a veto by Mr. Bush, who objected to other provisions in the bill. But as Mr. Bush left Washington, Congress had appropriated only $100 million for compensation, hardly enough to pay for processing claims.
Within months of taking office, President Obama promised to seek an additional $1.15 billion. In November 2010, Congress approved the funds. To protect against fraud, legislators ordered the Government Accountability Office and the Agriculture Department's inspector general to audit the payment process.
But simultaneously, the Agriculture Department abandoned the costly and burdensome review process it had applied to earlier claims. As a result, according to internal government memos, the percentage of successful claims is expected to exceed that in the original 1999 settlement. More than 40,000 claims have been filed and are under review.
In November, the G.A.O. concluded that antifraud provisions provided ''reasonable assurance'' of weeding out false claims, saying more than 3,100 suspicious applications had been identified. But as before, it noted, late filers need not document claims, leaving adjudicators to rely on assertions that they have ''no way of independently verifying.''
Few Claims, Big Payout
The Bush Justice Department had rebuffed all efforts to settle the parallel discrimination suits brought by Native American, Hispanic and female farmers. But now, the Obama administration's efforts to compensate African-American farmers intensified pressure from members of Congress and lobbyists to settle those cases as well.
Within the administration, Secretary Vilsack, a former Iowa governor who had briefly run for president, found an ally in Mr. West, who had been named an assistant attorney general after serving as a major Obama fund-raiser. Sweeping settlements with the three groups, Mr. West argued, would eliminate legal risks and smooth relations between the Agriculture Department and important constituencies.
The Native-American case was clearly problematic for the government. The federal judge overseeing the case, Emmet G. Sullivan, had already certified the plaintiffs as a class, although only to seek changes in government practices and policies. He postponed a decision on whether they could seek monetary damages as a class.
But Justice Department litigators were far from unarmed. If they lost on damages, case law suggested that the decision might be reversed. Depositions had revealed many of the individual farmers' complaints to be shaky. And federal judges had already scornfully rejected the methodology of the plaintiffs' expert, a former Agriculture Department official named Patrick O'Brien, in the women's case.
Mr. O'Brien contended that white farmers were two to three times as likely as Native Americans to receive federal farm loans in the 1980s and 1990s than were other farmers. But the government's expert, Gordon C. Rausser, a professor of economics and statistics at the University of California, Berkeley, had produced a 340-page report stating that Mr. O'Brien's conclusions were based ''in a counter-factual world'' and that Native Americans had generally fared as well as white male farmers.
Professor Rausser was astounded when, with both sides gearing up for trial in late 2009, the government began settlement negotiations. ''If they had gone to trial, the government would have prevailed,'' he said.
''It was just a joke,'' he added. ''I was so disgusted. It was simply buying the support of the Native-Americans.''
Agriculture officials predicted that only 5,300 Native Americans were likely to file claims. The plaintiffs' lawyers, whose fees were to be based on a percentage of the settlement, estimated up to 19,000 claims.
Only 4,400 people filed claims, with 3,600 winning compensation at a cost of roughly $300 million. That left $460 million unspent -- of which roughly $400 million under the terms of the settlement must be given to nonprofit groups that aid Native American farmers.
Ross Racine, the director of the Intertribal Agricultural Council, based in Montana, said his organization, with an annual budget of just $1 million, is perhaps the biggest eligible group. But many others are lining up to share the windfall, he said.
''Everybody is looking at this money on the table and saying, 'Give me some because I am a good guy,' '' he said.
The remaining $60.8 million will go to the plaintiffs' lawyers, led by the Washington firm Cohen, Milstein, Sellers & Toll. In court papers, the firm argued that the size of the payment was justified partly by the fact that the settlement nearly equaled the maximum estimate of economic damages. Joseph M. Sellers, the lead counsel, acknowledged the unspent amount was unexpectedly big. But ''absent a court order,'' he said, ''we don't intend to return it.''
'Divine Intervention'
On Feb. 19, 2010, Alan Wiseman, a lawyer for the Hispanic farmers, strode into Federal District Court in Washington unusually upbeat. ''Sometimes,'' he told Judge James Robertson, ''it takes divine intervention'' to move the government.
Over the past decade, his case had not gone well. Nor had the parallel lawsuit brought by female farmers.
Judge Robertson had refused to certify either group as a class. The United States Court of Appeals had upheld him, stating in 2006 that the Hispanic plaintiffs had been denied loans ''for a variety of reasons, including inadequate farm plans and lack of funds.'' Nor had female farmers proved a pattern of bias, the court found.
The Justice Department's lawyers had definitively ruled out any group-style settlement. ''Some of these folks have never made a loan payment in their entire history with U.S.D.A.,'' Lisa A. Olson, the lead government litigator against the 81 Hispanic plaintiffs, told Judge Robertson in August 2009. ''There may even be folks who are under criminal investigation.''
Michael Sitcov, assistant director of the Justice Department's federal program branch, told the judge that senior department officials agreed with career litigators that the cases should be fought one by one.
But members of the Congressional Hispanic caucus and a group of eight Democratic senators, led by Mr. Menendez, were lobbying the White House to move in the opposite direction. They grew increasingly agitated as the plaintiffs' cases appeared to falter.
In a letter to Mr. Obama in June 2009, the senators noted that black farmers stood to receive $2.25 billion in compensation, but that Hispanic farmers, who alleged the same kind of discrimination, had gotten nothing. Should that continue, Mr. Menendez wrote that September, ''Hispanic farmers and ranchers, and their supporters, will be reaching out to community and industry leaders outside of the Beltway in order to bring wider attention to this problem.''
The issue came to a head after the Supreme Court refused to reopen the issue of class certification. The next month, on Feb. 11, 2010, Daniel J. Meltzer, principal deputy White House counsel, held the first of three meetings at which resolution of the case was discussed, records and interviews show. Among the attendees were senior Justice and Agriculture Department officials, including Mr. West, Associate Attorney General Thomas J. Perrelli, and Krysta Harden, then the assistant agriculture secretary for Congressional relations.
Settlement negotiations began the next week. Judge Robertson expressed surprise at the news, ''given the history of the case.''
The decision to compensate potentially tens of thousands of Hispanics and women out of the Judgment Fund averted what was likely to be an uphill struggle with Congress. Nearly a year after the White House had asked for money to compensate the second wave of African-American farmers, Congress was still sitting on its hands. But there was sharp disagreement within the government over whether the claims from Hispanics and women met the Judgment Fund's ''imminent litigation'' test.
On the one hand, it was possible that absent a settlement, some people now filing administrative claims might have sued. Judge Robertson was expected to allow new plaintiffs for several more months. Although only 10 women had sued, their lawyers had obtained affidavits alleging discrimination from 2,000 others. Attorneys for the 81 Hispanic farmers also raised the vague specter of tens of thousands of plaintiffs.
Even so, 10 years had passed since the litigation began. To some administration officials, the prospect of a huge last-minute rush seemed unlikely.
In agreeing to the payout, the government did, for the first time, impose a greater evidentiary burden. While one major category of claimants -- those who said their loan applications had been unfairly denied -- remained eligible for payments of up to $50,000 without any documentation, others were required to produce written evidence that they had complained of bias at the time. The Hispanic plaintiffs were indignant.
Adam P. Feinberg, who represents some of them, said: ''Once the government puts a program in place for one racial group, even if it decides it is too generous, it cannot adopt a different set of restrictions for another racial group. It's outrageous.''
The claims process opened in late September, six weeks before the election. In the weeks before the March 25 deadline, facing far fewer claimants than expected, the Agriculture Department instructed processors to call about 16,000 people to remind them that time was running out, despite internal disquiet that the government was almost recruiting claims against itself. The deadline was then extended to May 1.
So far, about 1,900 Hispanics and 24,000 women have sought compensation, many in states where middlemen have built a cottage industry, promising to help win payouts for a fee.
Last October, a court-appointed ombudsman wrote that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people had given money to individuals and organizations in the belief that they were reserving the right to file a claim under the second settlement for black farmers, only to learn later that their names had never been forwarded to the authorities. People familiar with that statement said it was directed in part at Thomas Burrell, a charismatic orator and the head of the Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association, based in Memphis.
Mr. Burrell has traveled the South for years, exhorting black audiences in auditoriums and church halls to file discrimination complaints with his organization's help, in exchange for a $100 annual membership fee.
In an interview last month, Mr. Burrell said he had dedicated his life to helping black farmers after biased federal loan officers deprived him of his land and ruined his credit. He said his organization had misled no one, and had forwarded the names of all those eligible and willing to file claims.
''I have never advocated anybody file a false claim,'' he said. ''I have worked almost pro bono for this cause.''
On a recent Thursday at the Greater Second Baptist Church in Little Rock, several hundred African-Americans listened intently as Mr. Burrell told them they could reap $50,000 each, merely by claiming bias. He left out the fact that black men are no longer eligible, and that black women are eligible only if they suffered gender, not racial, bias.
''The Department of Agriculture admitted that it discriminated against every black person who walked into their offices,'' he told the crowd. ''They said we discriminated against them, but we didn't keep a record. Hello? You don't have to prove it.''
In fact, he boasted, he and his four siblings had all collected awards, and his sister had acquired another $50,000 on behalf of their dead father.
She cinched the claim, he said to a ripple of laughter, by asserting that her father had whispered on his deathbed, ''I was discriminated against by U.S.D.A.''
''The judge has said since you all look alike, whichever one says he came into the office, that's the one to pay -- hint, hint,'' he said. ''There is no limit to the amount of money, and there is no limit to the amount of folks who can file.''
He closed with a rousing exhortation: ''Let's get the judge to go to work writing them checks! They have just opened the bank vault.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top left, black farmers held a protest outside the Agriculture Department in Washington in 2002 tied to litigation about farm loan discrimination. Top right, two brothers, Albert and Rene Garza, took their protest to a state fair in New Mexico in 2009, where Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack was appearing. Above, John W. Boyd Jr. of Virginia, the president of the National Black Farmers Association, says he was denied a loan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
NORM DETTLAFF/LAS CRUCES SUN-NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, during his appearance at the state fair in New Mexico in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORM DETTLAFF/LAS CRUCES SUN-NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A24)
Thomas Burrell of the Black Farmers and Agriculturalists Association leading a workshop on filing claims. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Agriculture Department reviewers found many suspicious claims for compensation, some from nursery- school-age children and urban dwellers, and some in the same handwriting offering nearly identical accounts of discrimination. Those concerns were played down as the compensation effort grew. (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); JUDGES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



813 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Highway

BYLINE: By NICOLAS RAPOLD

 BODY:
''Highway,'' a film from Nepal, raised eyebrows at home for abandoning the Bollywood trappings that dominate that country's cinema. Alas, the new model appears to be trite television serials: The movie is a hash of demographically representative stories radiating from a bus trip to Katmandu that's blocked by street protests. Picturesque flourishes and jumpy editing can't disguise this film's soapy heart. 
The director, Deepak Rauniyar, gives us our pick of personal problems and societal upheavals in a changing country. One man enlists the help of his fellow passengers to reach his wife, a housemaid who may be pregnant by someone else. In another seat, a young woman glumly awaits the apparent inevitability of her arranged marriage. Meanwhile, in a city, an exotic dancer struggles to support a sick child, and a gay man's transgender roommate finds grave danger at a nightclub.
It's possible that the movie's abrupt transitions are meant to evoke the stop-and-start progress of the bus as it's held up by the protests (known as bandhs). But what at first seems like a knack for visual economy just turns into a handicap, as Mr. Rauniyar lets his stories dribble into rote melodrama, not helped by improvised dialogue. At least another journey remains absent from ''Highway'': that common attribute of socially dutiful cinema, the guilt trip.
Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by Deepak Rauniyar In Nepalese, with English subtitles 1 hour 15 minutes; not rated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) NEPAL (90%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



814 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Graceland

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
The sins of the fathers are visited upon their daughters in ''Graceland,'' a tense and tough-minded family drama in which young girls are as likely to be victimized by plenty as by poverty. 
Set in the teeming streets and dank alleys of Metro Manila, as the capital region is known, this bleak sophomore feature from the young writer and director Ron Morales centers on Marlon (a riveting Arnold Reyes), the loyal driver -- and part-time procurer -- for a corrupt Filipino politician named Chango (Menggie Cobarrubias). Though disgusted by his enabling of Chango's taste for underage company, Marlon has few options; with a wife in the hospital and a daughter beginning to crave the electronic toys of her wealthier classmates, he can ill afford unemployment.
Steering his story in unexpected directions, Mr. Morales uses moral depravity as the medium for pondering the allure of agency and the satisfaction of fighting back. A kidnap attempt on Chango's daughter goes terribly wrong, the film's tone of desperation rising as it becomes clear that the kidnappers are motivated by something other than money. Yet even while embracing the breathless beats of the crime thriller, ''Graceland'' holds tight to its concern for exploited children. Endangered innocence is everywhere -- sometimes portrayed in appropriately uncomfortable ways -- and the cinematographer Sung Rae Cho deserves enormous credit for emphasizing vulnerability over titillation.
An image of schoolgirls arranged in a window like merchandise, numbers attached to the collars of their white blouses, is heartbreaking enough, but not until the film's final moments do we learn just how deep the rot has gone.
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. Directed by Ron Morales In Tagalog, with English subtitles 1 hour 24 minutes; not rated

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arnold Reyes and Ella Guevara in ''Graceland,'' directed by Ron Morales and set in a tough community in the Philippines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DRAFTHOUSE FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); WRITERS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); FILM (67%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



815 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: In Basel, a Shiny Shop Window for Watchmakers

BYLINE: By ARTHUR TOUCHOT

 BODY:
PARIS -- If any proof were needed of the health and confidence of the Swiss watch industry, the $454 million revamp of the Basel Messe showground, just completed by the Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron, would surely do the trick. Home to Baselworld, the world's leading watch and jewelry fair, the radically rebuilt and enlarged space is expected to welcome more than 100,000 visitors by the time the eight-day event closes on May 2.
Bernard Keller, a spokesman for Baselworld, said he expected attendance this year to exceed the record 104,000 visitors from last year: ''We are hoping for a 2 percent increase,'' he said. 
Mirroring the record attendance at the fair, Swiss watchmakers celebrated a record export year in 2012, with sales abroad totaling nearly 21.4 billion Swiss francs, or about $22.5 billion, a 10.9 percent increase over 2011, said Jean-Daniel Pasche, the chairman of the Swiss Watch Federation. ''Generally speaking, 2012 was a very good year for the Swiss watch industry,'' Mr. Pasche said recently in a telephone interview, attributing the growth in exports to rising demand from China and other Asian countries.
Hong Kong, part of China but ranked separately, retained its title as the biggest global customer for Swiss watches. Hong Kong imported $4.3 billion in Swiss watches in 2012, a 6.8 percent increase from the previous year.
The rest of China ranked third, just behind the United States.
Between them, Hong Kong, China and Singapore together accounted for more than a third of global sales. Yet, despite the region's overall strength, trends in the Asian market varied widely.
While Swiss watch exports to Hong Kong rose significantly, those to China stalled, increasing only by 0.6 percent.
Oliver Chen, a luxury goods analyst at Citigroup, said the Chinese leadership changes that started in November, culminating in the National People's Congress last month, might cause a drop in the consumption of foreign goods.
''The new government is trying to moderate materialistic purchases, and that could be a bit of a problem,'' Mr. Chen said in a telephone interview.
In contrast, and despite economic woes, European customers have shown a growing appetite for luxury watches.
''In the second part of the last year, the increase was stronger in Europe than in Asia,'' Mr. Chen said, carrying sales for the full year almost 11 percent higher in continental Europe.
France remained Europe's biggest luxury watches importer -- ranked fourth overall behind China, although it only recorded a 1.3 percent increase in imports. Germany was 5th, Italy 6th, and Britain 10th. But the biggest European surprise was a strong increase in sales to some countries suffering the worst economic difficulties. Imports of Swiss watches to Spain grew by 17.4 percent and those to Italy rose 16 percent.
That may reflect a view that buying a luxury watch is a safer bet than keeping money in a bank or under the bed: ''Among all luxury products, hard luxury is one of the most attractive segments,'' Mr. Chen said. ''When you buy a watch it has generally retained value.''
Mr. Chen said he expected to see overall growth of 9 percent to 12 percent in 2013, on par with last year's numbers.
Mr. Pasche agreed that wealthy customers appeared to be buying watches as an investment. Demand for top-end watches was the main driver behind last year's growth, he noted.
''The watches we export are more expensive than before,'' he said.
While the value of Swiss watch exports had increased since 2011, Mr. Pasche noted, the number of watches sold had declined. In fact, Switzerland exported 700,000 fewer watches in 2012 than the previous year.
By raising prices, some brands may risk alienating potential customers, who might turn their attention from haute horlogerie to the more affordable fashion watch market segment, Mr. Chen said.
Still, even if interest for digital watches is growing -- Apple and Samsung have announced plans to develop smart watches -- Mr. Chen said fine watchmakers faced very little competition.
''It's pretty fierce internally,'' Mr. Chen said. ''But the Rolexes and Pateks don't care about the digital watches. My take is that the electronic watches are going to be much more of a tech piece that will always be limited by its battery life.''
For comparison, the entry-level Rolex at Baselworld 2013 is listed at $7,000, while available smart watches cost $130 to $200. In reality, the biggest threat to Swiss-made watches could be the failure to protect that label, Mr. Pasche said.
The Swiss Parliament has been debating how much of any product's value must originate from Switzerland in order for it to be ''Swiss made.'' Early in the debate, the lower house backed a 60 percent minimum, responding to a call by Mr. Pasche's federation for a high level to give more protection to Swiss watchmakers. The upper house, however, lobbied by the Swiss Business Federation, supported a 50 percent rate.
Last month, the watch industry federation threatened to break off relations with the broader business group, accusing it of taking a position ''counter to the interests of the Swiss watch industry.''
The Swiss-made label ''is very important,'' Mr. Pasche said, adding, ''Consumers expect quality watches when they see that label.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE WATCHES (93%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); SALES FIGURES (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



816 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Optimism Dims for U.S. Middle Class

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- It's evening in America. That is the worrying news from the latest Heartland Monitor Poll, conducted quarterly and sponsored by the insurer Allstate and National Journal.
The researchers made a striking finding: The U.S. middle class, long the world's embodiment of optimism and upward mobility, today is telling a very different story. The chief preoccupation of middle-class Americans is not the dream of getting ahead, it is the fear of falling behind.
The poll found that 59 percent of its respondents -- a group of 1,000 people selected to be demographically representative of the United States as a whole -- were afraid of falling out of their economic class over the next few years. Those who described themselves as lower middle class were even more scared than the overall group -- 68 percent feared they could slip even lower down the economic ladder. 
This wary vision of the future went hand-in-hand with a diminished idea of what it meant to belong to the middle class. More than half of the people polled -- 54 percent -- said that being middle class meant having a job and being able to pay your bills. Fewer than half -- just 43 percent -- took the more expansive view that membership in the middle class was a passport to financial and professional growth, buying a house and saving for the future.
''The key finding is that the middle class in America is more anxious than it is aspirational,'' Jeremy Ruch, a senior director at the strategic communications practice of FTI Consulting , and one of the people who led the polling, told me. ''Some of the traditional characteristics of middle classness are not seen as realistic. They have been replaced by an anxiety about the possibility of falling out of their economic class.''
Even more arresting was the extent to which things that used to be the unquestioned trappings of middle class life have come to be seen as upper-class luxuries. Nearly half -- 46 percent -- of the respondents who described themselves as middle class said that being able to pay for children's college education was possible only for the upper class. Forty-three percent thought that only the upper class had enough savings to deal with a job loss, and 40 percent believed only the upper class could save enough to retire comfortably.
For the land of opportunity, this is a seismic shift. America was created as a country where the middle class could prosper -- Thomas Jefferson crowed that America had no paupers and few who were rich enough to live without labor.
This was supposed to be the place where, as Bill Clinton liked to put it, if you worked hard and played by the rules, you could get ahead. And Yanks gloried in the fact that the world's huddled masses regularly demonstrated their belief in the American dream by voting with their feet.
The respondents to the Heartland poll know the world has changed. Nearly two-thirds of those who described themselves as middle class said their generation had less job and financial security than their parents. More than half said they had less opportunity to advance.
The academy can be sniffy about the economic instincts of ordinary folk, but in this case Joe Public seems to have gotten it right. The respondents were on target when asked to estimate the income of the typical American middle-class family: They said between $60,000 and $65,000 per year. According to U.S. census data from the Current Population Survey, median income for a family of four is $68,274.
And most economists think the anxiety articulated in this poll is a reaction to a real and new peril.
''I don't blame them,'' Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, told me. ''They are falling behind, so it is not surprising that they are feeling anxious.
''The disappointment and the anger of the middle class is not just whining, it is based on real economics,'' Mr. Brynjolfsson said. ''The job security and the income of the middle class is declining, and so is social mobility.''
The saddest paradox revealed in the poll is that ordinary Americans agree with the elites about what it takes to get ahead, or at least to stay afloat, in the 21st-century United States. Half of the respondents said that college was the best way to earn and maintain membership in the middle class. But almost half -- 49 percent -- thought that only the upper class could afford to pay for their children's higher education.
Humans have always been good at focusing on the immediate threat, and the nonstop media cycle has only exacerbated that trait: One week it is Hurricane Sandy, the next it is Cyprus, and then it is the Boston Marathon explosions.
For the Western industrialized countries, however, the really big story is the slow, inexorable decline of the middle class. Watching it happen is about as exciting as studying paint as it dries, or a frog as it boils. But the pain is now being felt even in perennially optimistic America. There are still a few hours left before midnight -- let's hope we can act in time.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); DISMISSALS (66%)

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (58%); FTI CONSULTING INC (53%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%); FCN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



817 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Weaker Yen Helps Sony Raise Its Profit Outlook

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Sony, Japan's long-troubled electronics and entertainment giant, doubled its annual net profit estimate Thursday, citing a weaker yen, sales of noncore assets and a recent stock rally that has bolstered its insurance business.
Sony said it expected to book a net profit of ¥40 billion, or $404 million, for the financial year that ended March 31, compared with an estimate it made in February of ¥20 billion. The Tokyo-based company also raised its sales estimate to ¥6.8 trillion from an earlier forecast of ¥6.6 trillion. The previous year, the company reported a ¥260 billion net loss on ¥7.2 trillion in sales. 
Sony's brightening fortunes underscore how the aggressive monetary easing pursued by the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the Japanese central bank are galvanizing exporters in the world's third-largest economy, after those of the United States and China. Analysts predict larger profits this earnings season as the country's top exporters bask in the effects of a yen that has weakened by almost 20 percent since Mr. Abe took office in late December, thanks to a huge injection of money into the Japanese markets.
A weak yen can bolster Japanese exporters by making their products more price-competitive overseas, or inflating the value of their overseas earnings. The reverse had been true for the country's exporters since 2008, as the yen -- considered an investing haven during times of turmoil -- strengthened considerably.
Now the yen is unwinding, and more quickly than most experts or companies expected. Sony said it had assumed foreign exchange rates for the fourth quarter of ¥88 to the dollar and ¥115 to the euro. Instead, those rates were ¥92 to the dollar and ¥122 to the euro.
Sony's asset sales -- including office buildings in Tokyo and New York, and a health care data provider -- also helped lift Sony's bottom line. Sony's life insurance unit benefited from a stock market rally that improved investment performance.
Sony reports official results for the just-ended fiscal year on May 9. Its shares have risen almost 70 percent during the past six months, beating a 54 percent rise in the Nikkei 225-share index.
With its robust profit forecast, Sony is set to join a flurry of exporters reporting stellar earnings. Also Thursday, the industrial giant Mitsubishi Heavy Industries said its annual net profit was likely to total ¥97.3 billion, far higher than a previous forecast of ¥70 billion and a fourfold increase from a year earlier. On Wednesday, Canon raised its net income projection for the past fiscal year, despite slashing its sales target 15 percent because of sluggish sales of its digital cameras.
Economists at UBS said in a recent report that they expected the weakening yen to remain ''a critical driver'' of increased profits for Japanese companies in the current fiscal year. The economists estimate nearly 50 percent earnings growth in Japan for the financial year ending March 2014.
Still, for some struggling exporters, the effects of the weak yen have not been enough to start a recovery. Nintendo, the video game company, posted a smaller-than-expected annual profit of ¥7.1 billion Wednesday, thanks to disappointing sales of its Wii U home consoles and 3DS portable machines.
At Sony, it remains unclear how much the company can leverage its improved finances to revive its consumer electronics business, which has lost ground to rivals like Apple and Samsung. Sony is pushing to make bigger inroads in the smartphone market with sleek models like the Xperia. It is also set to release the PlayStation 4, its next-generation home game console, this holiday season.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sony LCD televisions in Tokyo. A weaker yen helps exporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); SALES PLAN (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (50%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (51%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); 7011 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (51%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (51%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (51%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



818 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The 1 Percent's Solution

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Economic debates rarely end with a T.K.O. But the great policy debate of recent years between Keynesians, who advocate sustaining and, indeed, increasing government spending in a depression, and austerians, who demand immediate spending cuts, comes close -- at least in the world of ideas. At this point, the austerian position has imploded; not only have its predictions about the real world failed completely, but the academic research invoked to support that position has turned out to be riddled with errors, omissions and dubious statistics.
Yet two big questions remain. First, how did austerity doctrine become so influential in the first place? Second, will policy change at all now that crucial austerian claims have become fodder for late-night comics? 
On the first question: the dominance of austerians in influential circles should disturb anyone who likes to believe that policy is based on, or even strongly influenced by, actual evidence. After all, the two main studies providing the alleged intellectual justification for austerity -- Alberto Alesina and Silvia Ardagna on ''expansionary austerity'' and Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff on the dangerous debt ''threshold'' at 90 percent of G.D.P. -- faced withering criticism almost as soon as they came out.
And the studies did not hold up under scrutiny. By late 2010, the International Monetary Fund had reworked Alesina-Ardagna with better data and reversed their findings, while many economists raised fundamental questions about Reinhart-Rogoff long before we knew about the famous Excel error. Meanwhile, real-world events -- stagnation in Ireland, the original poster child for austerity, falling interest rates in the United States, which was supposed to be facing an imminent fiscal crisis -- quickly made nonsense of austerian predictions.
Yet austerity maintained and even strengthened its grip on elite opinion. Why?
Part of the answer surely lies in the widespread desire to see economics as a morality play, to make it a tale of excess and its consequences. We lived beyond our means, the story goes, and now we're paying the inevitable price. Economists can explain ad nauseam that this is wrong, that the reason we have mass unemployment isn't that we spent too much in the past but that we're spending too little now, and that this problem can and should be solved. No matter; many people have a visceral sense that we sinned and must seek redemption through suffering -- and neither economic argument nor the observation that the people now suffering aren't at all the same people who sinned during the bubble years makes much of a dent.
But it's not just a matter of emotion versus logic. You can't understand the influence of austerity doctrine without talking about class and inequality.
What, after all, do people want from economic policy? The answer, it turns out, is that it depends on which people you ask -- a point documented in a recent research paper by the political scientists Benjamin Page, Larry Bartels and Jason Seawright. The paper compares the policy preferences of ordinary Americans with those of the very wealthy, and the results are eye-opening.
Thus, the average American is somewhat worried about budget deficits, which is no surprise given the constant barrage of deficit scare stories in the news media, but the wealthy, by a large majority, regard deficits as the most important problem we face. And how should the budget deficit be brought down? The wealthy favor cutting federal spending on health care and Social Security -- that is, ''entitlements'' -- while the public at large actually wants to see spending on those programs rise.
You get the idea: The austerity agenda looks a lot like a simple expression of upper-class preferences, wrapped in a facade of academic rigor. What the top 1 percent wants becomes what economic science says we must do.
Does a continuing depression actually serve the interests of the wealthy? That's doubtful, since a booming economy is generally good for almost everyone. What is true, however, is that the years since we turned to austerity have been dismal for workers but not at all bad for the wealthy, who have benefited from surging profits and stock prices even as long-term unemployment festers. The 1 percent may not actually want a weak economy, but they're doing well enough to indulge their prejudices.
And this makes one wonder how much difference the intellectual collapse of the austerian position will actually make. To the extent that we have policy of the 1 percent, by the 1 percent, for the 1 percent, won't we just see new justifications for the same old policies?
I hope not; I'd like to believe that ideas and evidence matter, at least a bit. Otherwise, what am I doing with my life? But I guess we'll see just how much cynicism is justified.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



819 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Uptick and Better Jobless Data Lift Shares

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The stock market rose on Thursday, lifted by stronger-than-expected earnings and a large drop in weekly applications for unemployment benefits.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index traded within a point of its closing high of 1,593.37, not adjusted for inflation, before shedding about half of the day's gains. 
Telecommunications companies led the S.& P. 500's advance, with the sector's index up 1.7 percent. Verizon Communications, a component of the Dow Jones industrial average, hit a 13-year high with a 2.7 percent increase to $53.22 after a report that it had hired advisers to prepare a possible bid to take full control of Verizon Wireless from Vodafone.
Dow Chemical climbed 5.6 percent to $33.97 after it reported a 33 percent increase in its quarterly profit as farmers in the Americas bought more of its seeds and pesticides.
Market participants expected the first quarter to be difficult for corporate America after cuts in government spending and a payroll tax increase.
''But consumers are holding on pretty well,'' said Peter Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer of OakBrook Investments. ''There's optimism out there that conditions will improve,'' he said. ''There's potential for an uptick in the economy.''
The Dow industrials rose 24.50 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 14,700.80. The S.& P. 500 gained 6.37 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,585.16. The Nasdaq composite added 20.33 points, or 0.6 percent, to 3,289.99.
Analysts sharply lowered their earnings expectations before the start of the current reporting season, and 68 percent of the S.& P. 500 companies that have reported results have exceeded earnings forecasts. But less than 42 percent have exceeded revenue forecasts -- below the average rate of 52 percent over the last four quarters.
A report on jobless claims on Thursday gave a less worrisome view of the economy than other recent data. Initial applications for unemployment benefits in the latest week dropped 16,000 to a seasonally adjusted 339,000, compared with economists' expectations for 351,000.
Among the stocks moving higher after reporting strong earnings, Cliffs Natural Resources jumped 15 percent to $20.95. Alexion Pharmaceuticals rose 10.8 percent to $98.82 after reporting earnings and revenue above expectations. Akamai Technologies, rose 17.7 percent to $42.48.
But Exxon Mobil and 3M, both Dow components, bucked the trend after reporting disappointing financial results. Exxon Mobil slid 1.5 percent to $88.07, while 3M lost 2.8 percent to $104.88.
In the bond market, interest rates were little changed. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note slipped 2/32, to 102 20/32, while its yield edged up to 1.71 percent from 1.70 percent late on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PESTICIDES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); ALEXION PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES INC (51%); CLIFFS NATURAL RESOURCES INC (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); ALXN (NASDAQ) (51%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); AKAM (NASDAQ) (51%); CLF (PAR) (51%); CLF (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (51%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



820 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Venture Threatens to Backfire in Virginia Race

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
CLIFTON FORGE, Va. -- When Terry McAuliffe appeared with his good friend Bill Clinton at the ribbon-cutting for Mr. McAuliffe's electric car company in July 2012, the campaign-style event, complete with ''Born in the U.S.A.'' blaring, was meant to supply the top line of his résumé as he positioned himself to run for governor of Virginia.
But less than a year later, the company, GreenTech Automotive, has become a potential embarrassment as Mr. McAuliffe campaigns on the slogan ''Putting Jobs First'' and seeks to keep the spotlight on the conservative social views of his Republican opponent, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, the state attorney general.
Mr. McAuliffe resigned as GreenTech's chairman last year but publicly acknowledged it only this month. Documents have surfaced questioning his explanation for why he located the plant in Mississippi, not Virginia, including memos from Virginia officials expressing ''grave doubts'' about his business model and suggesting its financing was a ''visa-for-sale scheme'' for Chinese investors. 
Mr. McAuliffe, 56, a legendary Democratic fund-raiser who was chairman of Hillary Rodham Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign, said the struggles of GreenTech -- which once promised 1,500 jobs but today employs only 78 at its plant -- are typical of any start-up in a tough economy.
''How many people start electric car companies?'' he said in an interview. ''How many do it in a recession?''
Mr. Cuccinelli has seized on the GreenTech saga in an attempt to attack Mr. McAuliffe's chief asset as a candidate, his business acumen.
The Cuccinelli campaign has compiled a 58-slide presentation of opposition research on GreenTech and created a mocking Web video. It shows every sign of keeping the issue alive through Election Day in November.
''The central premise of Terry McAuliffe's candidacy has been undermined,'' said Chris LaCivita, Mr. Cuccinelli's top strategist. ''Why would we not talk about it?''
Even before a single paid advertisement by either candidate, the Virginia governor's race is off to an especially nasty start. The McAuliffe campaign is highlighting Mr. Cuccinelli's own potential scandal: his decision as attorney general not to initially recuse his office from a lawsuit against the Commonwealth of Virginia brought by a company whose chief executive gave Mr. Cuccinelli gifts, including the use of a lake house and boat.
Mr. Cuccinelli has sought to shift the spotlight from his relationship to that company, Star Scientific, by haranguing Mr. McAuliffe for not releasing his tax returns. On Tuesday Mr. McAuliffe relented and released summaries of the past three years, which showed, indeed, that he is wealthy: he earned $8.1 million in 2011, $1.8 million in 2010 and $6.5 million in 2009.
Harry L. Wilson, a political scientist at Roanoke College, said Virginians had always elected governors they found likable, but 2013 may break the mold. ''This may be the first time we don't like our governor the day after the election,'' he said.
The path to GreenTech for Mr. McAuliffe, who has never held elective office, began in defeat in the 2009 primary for governor, when charges that he was a carpetbagger without Virginia ties proved devastating. In the four years since, he traveled the state extensively and raised $20 million to buy a Hong Kong-based electric carmaker, renaming it GreenTech and moving its headquarters to Northern Virginia, where he lives.
On Tuesday, Mr. McAuliffe was continuing his listening tour of the state at a community college in Clifton Forge in the Blue Ridge Mountains. He studiously took notes on a narrow reporter's pad.
''So, Mr. McAuliffe, you wrestling any alligators?'' asked one student, a reference to a colorful episode from his past inspired by the promise of a $15,000 political contribution.
''I'll do anything once,'' Mr. McAuliffe said.
''Now you're just wrestling the car industry,'' volunteered a second student.
One of the first questions Mr. McAuliffe was asked when he announced his candidacy last year was why GreenTech located its factory in Tunica County, Miss. Mr. McAuliffe said Virginia officials ''didn't want to bid on it.''
But e-mails and documents obtained by PolitiFact under the Freedom of Information Act show that Virginia economic development officials were interested, though deeply skeptical about the company's prospects.
''We have grave doubts about the business model presented to us,'' Jeffrey Anderson, the director of the Virginia Economic Development Partnership at the time, wrote in a memo.
Officials also questioned GreenTech's plan to attract Chinese investors using a visa program that awards green cards to foreigners who put up $500,000 or more for a start-up business. One development official wrote that she could not ''get my head around this being anything other than a visa-for-sale scheme.''
Mr. McAuliffe shrugged off Virginia's objections. ''We tried,'' he said. ''It didn't work out. I've been in many entrepreneurial businesses. States make their decisions. Businesses make their decisions.''
Asked how much of GreenTech's financing was raised through foreign investors seeking green cards, known as EB-5 visas, he referred the question to GreenTech's current executives. Marianne McInerney, a vice president, said the EB-5 program was important to ''our initial capital strategy'' but did not represent the majority of current investments.
Mr. McAuliffe stepped down as chairman sometime before Dec. 1, though he continued to refer to his role at the company in the present tense, telling a meeting of small business owners in January, ''I'm building electric cars now.''
His campaign defended that as accurate since Mr. McAuliffe remains a GreenTech investor, with stock worth more than $250,000, according to a campaign disclosure filing.
Mr. McAuliffe said he left GreenTech to run for governor full time and never intended to hide his departure. ''If anybody asked me, I said I'm no longer with the company,'' he said. ''When I made the decision I'm running for governor, I'm all in.''
Yet the decision not to announce the departure -- it was first reported this month by Politico -- increased the impression that Mr. McAuliffe was seeking to distance himself from the company, which has struggled to live up to a series of promises.
When it announced its Mississippi plant, news reports there said the company projected making 150,000 cars. It now says it has orders for 7,000 cars in 2013, a two-seat vehicle the company calls MyCar.
On Monday the company announced a new venture with a Chinese partner to make an all-electric sedan, initially assembling 2,000 vehicles in Mississippi and opening a second plant with 200 jobs.
Some strategists suggested GreenTech was an opportunity for Mr. McAuliffe, not a black eye, because it focuses attention on his record as an entrepreneur and contrasts with Mr. Cucccinelli, who is known mostly as a social conservative.
''Both sides are in a mad rush to define themselves and their opponents,'' said Mo Elleithee, a strategist for Mr. McAuliffe in 2009 but who is not active this cycle. ''I think the more the debate is about Terry's record, the better the opportunity is for him. He just has to seize it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terry McAuliffe, right, unveiling his company's MyCar last July in Mississippi with Haley Barbour, a former governor of the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGELIO V. SOLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. McAuliffe, shown in 2007 at a fund-raiser for Hillary Rodham Clinton, is now campaigning to be Virginia's governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INTERNET VIDEO (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRIC CAR CO INC (91%); STAR SCIENTIFIC INC (50%)

TICKER: STSI (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); HALEY BARBOUR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (98%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



821 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: From the Fed, A New Chill To Banks From Abroad

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
There was a time, not long ago, when bank regulators around the globe trusted one another.
Those days are gone. Despite a lot of talk about the need for international cooperation in regulation, it now appears that American regulators intend to ensure that foreign banks operating in the United States have adequate capitalization.
It was not always such. Until the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve was happy to allow American subsidiaries of foreign banks to have no capital at all, and some did not. At the end of 2007, Deutsche Bank's American operations reported having a negative $8.8 billion in capital.
How could any regulator allow that? The idea was that the presumably well-capitalized parent back home would stand behind the American operation if it ran into trouble. And the United States could, of course, rely on home countries to both regulate their banks and, if something went badly wrong anyway, provide bailouts. 
But as the crisis approached, some funny things were happening. Until the turn of the century, American operations of foreign banks tended to receive financing from home. But as the credit party grew after 2003, those banks increasingly borrowed in America's short-term markets and sent the money back home to the parent.
When the credit crisis appeared, that financing -- a significant part of which had come from selling short-term securities to United States money market funds -- dried up.
''Foreign banks that relied heavily on short-term U.S. dollar liabilities were forced to sell U.S. dollar assets and reduce lending rapidly when that funding source evaporated, thereby compounding risks to U.S. financial stability,'' Daniel K. Tarullo, a Fed governor, said in a speech late last year.
The foreign banks ended up needing a disproportionate share of loans the Fed handed out to stabilize banks. And since then the ability, let alone the willingness, of some countries, particularly in Europe, to provide what the Fed delicately calls ''backstops'' -- a term that sounds much less harsh than ''bailouts'' -- appears to have diminished.
In December, the Fed proposed new rules that have set off loud protests from overseas and are likely to provoke a flood of complaints before the comment period ends on Tuesday.
The rules would require that American subsidiaries of each foreign bank be put together in a holding company that would have to maintain capital, and liquidity, in the United States. In some cases the requirements would be greater than home countries require of the parent institutions.
In a letter to the Fed, Michel Barnier, the European commissioner in charge of internal markets, complained that the proposal was ''a radical departure'' from internationally accepted policies. He darkly warned that if the Fed did not back down and accept that Europe will do a perfectly good job of regulating its own banks, the new rules ''could spark a protectionist reaction'' from other countries and bring on ''a fragmentation of global banking markets and regulatory frameworks.''
The proposed rules seem to be particularly objectionable to some European banks in two ways. The first is the introduction of an effective 5 percent leverage ratio -- calculated as the equity capital of the operation divided by the total amount of assets.
To banks with a lot of securities market activities, that sounds like a harsh rule. Deutsche Bank is particularly upset.
Some other European banks seem to be worried by the application of rules requiring an adequate level of very liquid assets relative to the bank's short-term financing. The idea there is that if the short-term financing dries up again, the bank will be able to cope for at least a brief period without having to either conduct a fire sale of assets or turn to the Fed for help.
These rules might not actually require the banks to raise a lot of cash, or invest a lot of money in low-returning assets. To meet the liquidity rules, a bank could add more superliquid securities, like United States Treasury or agency securities. Or it could change its financing. Rather than borrowing huge sums overnight, it could borrow at longer maturities, perhaps 45 days. Then it would not need as many liquid assets.
As for equity levels, in many cases a foreign bank might simply have to convert loans it had made to the American operation into equity investments. Suddenly the American operation would appear to be better capitalized.
It will be months before the Fed finishes analyzing all the comments that will come in over the next few days and decides how, if at all, to change the proposal. But it seems doubtful that the central bank will back down entirely. Regulators were badly burned the last time and are not going to volunteer to make the same mistakes.
It is no coincidence that it is the countries with the largest financial systems, whether in absolute terms or relative to the size of their national economies, that seem to be most determined to protect themselves this time. They have the most to lose. The examples of badly run oversize financial systems in Iceland, Ireland and now Cyprus have made the risks crystal clear. European regulators who trusted Iceland to regulate its own banks wound up paying off depositors even though there is little hope Iceland will ever reimburse those payments.
British regulators are adopting rules for foreign banks operating there that are somewhat similar to what the Fed is proposing. New York and London are, of course, the two largest concentrations of offshore capital, where international banks are the most active. Britain is a member of the European Union, but its plans were not mentioned in Mr. Barnier's letter.
The fact that the Fed is leaning more liberally on leverage ratios is an encouraging thing. Bank capital requirements have grown exceedingly complex as banks use their own models to calculate just how risky their assets are, and then compare the risk-weighted total of assets to their capital. (There are also interesting ways to calculate capital, but we won't get into them.)
It turns out that in the financial crisis, big banks with high leverage ratios -- that is, more capital relative to assets -- were significantly more likely to survive without needing bailouts. But the level of risk-weighted assets was not useful in forecasting which banks would be able to ride out the storm.
''The current rules can be very easily gamed,'' said Sheila Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, who would like to see them simplified and strengthened. She supports the Fed proposal.
Andrew G. Haldane, a Bank of England official with the impressive title ''executive director, financial stability,'' thinks that regulators would be better off to seek simplicity through measures like leverage ratios, rather than allow banks to make calculations that depend on thousands of estimates to determine how much capital they need.
''Modern finance is complex, perhaps too complex,'' Mr. Haldane said in a speech at the Fed's Jackson Hole symposium last summer. ''Regulation of modern finance is complex, almost certainly too complex. That configuration spells trouble. As you do not fight fire with fire, you do not fight complexity with complexity. Because complexity generates uncertainty, not risk, it requires a regulatory response grounded in simplicity, not complexity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michel Barnier, a European commissioner, says a Fed plan could lead other nations to retaliate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN WARNAND/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Daniel Tarullo of the Fed said foreign banks that had to sell dollar assets when credit dried up jeopardized America's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CAMERON/REUTERS) (B4) CHART: The Great Dollar Drain: Net funding of foreign banks' operations in the United States (Source: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL (59%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



822 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, A Day To Bask In Texas Sun

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
UNIVERSITY PARK, Tex. -- Standing in front of the magisterial brick-and-limestone George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum on Thursday, Bill Clinton summed up the day with a knowing smile. ''I told President Obama,'' he said, ''that this was the latest, grandest example of the eternal struggle of former presidents to rewrite history.''
All five veterans of the Oval Office onstage could relate to that: If every memoirist is the star of his own story, every president is the hero of his own library. 
So the protagonist who emerged as Mr. Bush's library was formally dedicated on Thursday was a resolute leader who protected the nation after Sept. 11, 2001, raised education standards, pushed to overhaul the immigration system and brought peace to the war-torn nation of Sudan. His peers highlighted his AIDS-fighting program, which is credited with saving millions of lives in Africa.
The words Iraq and Afghanistan, however, never passed Mr. Bush's lips, or those of the four other presidents who spoke.
They alluded to the American wars there by praising Mr. Bush's deep concern for wounded soldiers and the families of those killed in combat, but put aside for a day the arguments over how the wars were conducted, why they were waged and what they accomplished.
''One of the benefits of freedom is that people can disagree,'' Mr. Bush told a crowd of thousands on a bright Texas day. ''It's fair to say I created plenty of opportunities to exercise that right. But when future generations come to this library and study this administration, they're going to find out that we stayed true to our convictions.''
For Mr. Bush, 66, who has spent the past four years listening in silence as his successor has faulted his leadership, this was an emotional day. Bathed in the admiration of a friendly crowd and enjoying a modest resurgence of public appreciation in recent surveys, he choked up as he finished speaking and wiped tears from his eyes after sitting down.
While critics have fumed about what they called the whitewashing of his record in the media blitz leading up to the library dedication, many Americans have been reminded about aspects of Mr. Bush they once liked. Advisers said they hoped the moment would help history draw a fuller picture.
''It's never been about presenting him,'' said Nicolle Wallace, who worked on Mr. Bush's re-election campaign and in the White House. ''It's been about revealing him.''
The $250 million library, on the campus of Southern Methodist University, reframes many elements of the Bush presidency, domestic, economic and foreign, as part of his ''freedom agenda,'' linking together sometimes disparate policies in a single narrative thread.
''In democracy, the purpose of public office is not to fulfill personal ambition,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Elected officials must serve a cause greater than themselves. The political winds blow left and right, polls rise and fall, supporters come and go. But in the end leaders are defined by the convictions that they hold. And my deepest conviction, the guiding principle of the administration, is that the United States of America must strive to expand the reach of freedom.''
Jimmy Carter, Mr. Bush's father and Mr. Clinton have opened their own libraries, likewise shaping their histories as they preferred. Mr. Obama can be expected to do the same soon enough. On this day, they collectively wrapped their arms around a fellow member of the club.
''We know President Bush the man,'' Mr. Obama said. ''To know the man is to like the man. Because he's comfortable in his own skin. He knows who he is. He doesn't put on any pretenses. He takes his job seriously, but he doesn't take himself too seriously. He is a good man.''
Mr. Obama, whose first presidential campaign was built on opposition to the Iraq war, praised Mr. Bush for his bullhorn-in-the-rubble fortitude after Sept. 11 and said his predecessor fought for what he thought was best for his country. He linked his own effort to overhaul the immigration system to Mr. Bush's.
''If we do that, it will be in large part thanks to the hard work of President George W. Bush,'' Mr. Obama said.
Mr. Clinton, who has become close to the Bush family, offered warm words and recounted how he and Mr. Bush used to talk politics while his successor was in office. Referring to the library behind him, he joked, ''Dear God, I hope there's no record of those conversations in this vast and beautiful building.'' Hillary Rodham Clinton, sitting onstage with the other presidents and first ladies, laughed robustly.
Mr. Carter, one of the fiercest critics of the Iraq war, talked about how Mr. Bush ended war in Sudan and helped Africa. ''I'm filled with admiration for you and deep gratitude for you about the contributions you've made to the most needy people on earth,'' he told Mr. Bush.
The event was a public re-emergence for Mr. Bush's father, who spent weeks in a hospital last winter and at one point appeared close to death. Now in a wheelchair because he has a form of Parkinson's disease, Mr. Bush, 88, said only a few words, thanking those who made his son's library. ''It's very special for Barbara and me,'' he said.
The crowd stood in ovation. In a poignant moment, the former president -- with the help of his son and Barbara Bush -- lifted himself to his feet for a few moments in acknowledgment.
Also on hand was former Vice President Dick Cheney, who appeared revitalized after having a heart transplant last year. Wearing a cowboy hat, Mr. Cheney was introduced along with members of presidential families, but he had no speaking role.
Mr. Cheney makes only cameo appearances in the museum exhibits, and in an interview broadcast this week, the younger Mr. Bush described their relationship as ''cordial'' -- a word that left the impression that the two were not close because of their fight in the waning days of the administration over a pardon for the vice president's former chief of staff.
Perhaps to refute that, Mr. Bush offered warm words for Mr. Cheney from the stage. ''He served with loyalty, principle and strength,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I'm proud to call you friend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George W. Bush flashed a ''W'' symbol during the dedication of his presidential library and museum on Thursday at Southern Methodist University near Dallas.
 All five living presidents attended the dedication, including, top, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, with their wives, Hillary and Rosalynn. At left above, Tony Blair, Condoleezza Rice, Dick Cheney and Jenna Bush Hager. At right, José María Aznar of Spain and Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TONY BLAIR (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



823 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Coastal Areas Worry Whether Tourists Will Come

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The sea gulls still wheel indolently over Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, on the lookout for food to scavenge from restaurants, shops and fishing boats. The scene is timeless, but this spring the streets below have less to offer.
Six months after Hurricane Sandy swamped the New York City coastline, Emmons Avenue, the tourist stretch on the northern side of the cigar-shaped bay, has still not returned to its normal bustle, with many restaurants and businesses still shuttered. That dispirited atmosphere is mirrored along the commercial strips of Coney Island, Red Hook, the Rockaways and the city's other waterfront communities.
In neighborhood after neighborhood, it is harder to find a quart of milk or a slice of pizza, and harder to complete essential services like filling a prescription or cashing a check. Many stores are rushing to reopen before the busy summer season, but others -- lacking the money to pay for repairs or entangled in the bureaucracy of recovery programs -- have decided to remain closed for good, departures that have sapped neighborhoods of economic life and humming vitality. 
''Mambo Sushi, gone! Tzar, gone! Fusion, gone!'' said Theresa Scavo, the district manager of Community Board 15, as she reeled off the names of destroyed restaurants on a single block of Emmons Avenue, where only a Greek restaurant, Yiasou, managed to reopen.
A block farther along the bay, a few restaurants and cafes where water reached the ceilings were also shuttered. In total, 14 businesses on Emmons Avenue are still closed, Ms. Scavo said, with a dozen more closed elsewhere in the neighborhood. With warm weather approaching, there is concern that tourists will not flock to the bay as they usually do.
''Everybody suffers, because if people are not coming to eat at your restaurant, they won't shop at my clothing store,'' Ms. Scavo said.
In Coney Island, Brooklyn, the original Nathan's Famous has still not reopened, though workers have been lugging in sheets of plywood to get the restaurant ready for the peak season that starts Memorial Day weekend. Businesses like Tom's Coney Island restaurant were largely spared the worst of the flooding because of their location on the elevated Boardwalk. But with attractions like the New York Aquarium and the Coney Island U.S.A. sideshow and museum still closed, their crowds have thinned, said Jimmy Kokotas, owner of Tom's, noting that he was six months behind in rent.
Along a six-block stretch of Mermaid Avenue, a commercial street in Coney Island that caters to much of the year-round poor and working-class population, many stores are still locked -- among them, a Chase bank, a McDonald's, a bagel store, a Chinese restaurant, a check-cashing place and a Mexican deli. Edward Cosmé, head of the avenue's trade association, said his 13-year-old beauty parlor, Hair For U, is open only because he spent $40,000 of his own money to replace hair dryers and salon chairs destroyed in the storm, and he received a $25,000 loan at 1 percent interest and $10,000 in cash from the city's Department of Small Business Services. But the number of customers is down by more than a third, he said, because some residents displaced by the storm have not returned.
''It's an eyesore to see so many gates still shuttered in a beautiful place like Coney Island,'' he said. ''It's bleak to see that six months after the storm that many business are not up and running, and money has not trickled down to a corridor like Mermaid Avenue.''
Chase has managed to set up a sleek trailer, complete with three A.T.M.'s, to service clients until a permanent branch can be built. Balaji Pharmacy, which reopened days after the storm to dispense crucial drugs, has still not finished installing the shelves that will allow it to carry cosmetics and toiletries. ''We're open on a minimal basis,'' said Wai Ho, the pharmacist.
In Arverne and other Rockaways neighborhoods in Queens, many grocery stores are still closed and residents have resorted to shopping at bodegas, where the prices tend to be higher. Among the stricken businesses in Red Hook, Brooklyn, the main supermarket for the sprawling public Red Hook Houses, Fine Fare, is still closed, forcing residents to make do with a smaller market or walk a half-mile to a Fairway, which reopened in March.
Many business owners said they had struggled to reopen because their losses were not covered by flood insurance and getting timely government assistance to make repairs was difficult.
Marine Spares International and Tamco Mechanical, two allied businesses in Red Hook that repair ship boilers and pumps, had to replace much of their heavy precision machinery and are only now at 60 percent of usual production, said Jim Tampakis, an owner. He tried to fill out applications for government help but abandoned the effort.
''I became discouraged,'' he said. ''There was a feeling that businesses were getting the runaround.''
Meredith Weber, a spokeswoman for the small-business services agency, said in an e-mail that ''to date citywide, more than 600 loans have been approved totaling nearly $14 million, and more than $3.4 million in matching grants.'' In Sheepshead Bay's ZIP code, the city approved 45 loans totaling $1 million, and 13 grants totaling $65,000; in Coney Island, the department approved 19 loans for $420,700 and 8 grants totaling $40,000. Additional aid to businesses was approved by Congress as part of a storm relief package but has not yet been distributed, city officials said.
Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr., who represents Coney Island, has urged the city to ease qualifications for grants. ''It's imperative that more businesses have access to this type of funding so that they can get back on their feet,'' he said in written comments to the city's storm recovery plans.
Some flooded businesses, like the popular Randazzo's Clam Bar in Sheepshead Bay, used family savings, relatives willing to pitch in, and dedicated staff members with jobs on the line to rebuild quickly. The storm surge sent three or four feet of water inside Yiasou, the nearby Greek restaurant, turning over tables and chairs and ruining the oven and refrigerator. Michael Katsichtis, the son of Yiasou's owner, said it, too, had no flood insurance, but it got a $25,000 loan and a $10,000 grant from the city and reopened three weeks after the hurricane, even calling an artist to repaint colorful Greek murals.
''If the restaurants are down, not many people are going to want to come to Sheepshead Bay,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Coney Island, Brooklyn, the original Nathan's Famous restaurant at Stillwell and Surf Avenues remains closed.
Randazzo's Clam Bar in Sheepshead Bay, which has reopened, used family savings, helpful relatives and dedicated staff members to rebuild quickly. (A26)
 Yiasou, in Sheepshead Bay, had no flood insurance but it reopened three weeks after the hurricane, thanks to a $25,000 loan and a $10,000 city grant. Peter Katsichtis, standing, is the owner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); FAST FOOD (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (68%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (53%); AQUANTIVE INC (51%)

TICKER: NATH (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



824 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Debt, Growth and the Austerity Debate

BYLINE: By CARMEN M. REINHART and KENNETH S. ROGOFF. 
Carmen M. Reinhart is a professor of the international financial system, and Kenneth S. Rogoff is a professor of public policy and economics, both at Harvard.

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
IN May 2010, we published an academic paper, ''Growth in a Time of Debt.'' Its main finding, drawing on data from 44 countries over 200 years, was that in both rich and developing countries, high levels of government debt -- specifically, gross public debt equaling 90 percent or more of the nation's annual economic output -- was associated with notably lower rates of growth.
Given debates occurring across the industrialized world, from Washington to London to Brussels to Tokyo, about the best way to recover from the Great Recession, that paper, along with other research we have published, has frequently been cited -- and, often, exaggerated or misrepresented -- by politicians, commentators and activists across the political spectrum. 
Last week, three economists at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, released a paper criticizing our findings. They correctly identified a spreadsheet coding error that led us to miscalculate the growth rates of highly indebted countries since World War II. But they also accused us of ''serious errors'' stemming from ''selective exclusion'' of relevant data and ''unconventional weighting'' of statistics -- charges that we vehemently dispute. (In an online-only appendix accompanying this essay, we explain the methodological and technical issues that are in dispute.)
Our research, and even our credentials and integrity, have been furiously attacked in newspapers and on television. Each of us has received hate-filled, even threatening, e-mail messages, some of them blaming us for layoffs of public employees, cutbacks in government services and tax increases. As career academic economists (our only senior public service has been in the research department at the International Monetary Fund) we find these attacks a sad commentary on the politicization of social science research. But our feelings are not what's important here.
The authors of the paper released last week -- Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash and Robert Pollin -- say our ''findings have served as an intellectual bulwark in support of austerity politics'' and urge policy makers to ''reassess the austerity agenda itself in both Europe and the United States.''
A sober reassessment of austerity is the responsible course for policy makers, but not for the reasons these authors suggest. Their conclusions are less dramatic than they would have you believe. Our 2010 paper found that, over the long term, growth is about 1 percentage point lower when debt is 90 percent or more of gross domestic product. The University of Massachusetts researchers do not overturn this fundamental finding, which several researchers have elaborated upon.
The academic literature on debt and growth has for some time been focused on identifying causality. Does high debt merely reflect weaker tax revenues and slower growth? Or does high debt undermine growth?
Our view has always been that causality runs in both directions, and that there is no rule that applies across all times and places. In a paper published last year with Vincent R. Reinhart, we looked at virtually all episodes of sustained high debt in the advanced economies since 1800. Nowhere did we assert that 90 percent was a magic threshold that transforms outcomes, as conservative politicians have suggested.
We did find that episodes of high debt (90 percent or more) were rare, long and costly. There were just 26 cases where the ratio of debt to G.D.P. exceeded 90 percent for five years or more; the average high-debt spell was 23 years. In 23 of the 26 cases, average growth was slower during the high-debt period than in periods of lower debt levels. Indeed, economies grew at an average annual rate of roughly 3.5 percent, when the ratio was under 90 percent, but at only a 2.3 percent rate, on average, at higher relative debt levels.
(In 2012, the ratio of debt to gross domestic product was 106 percent in the United States, 82 percent in Germany and 90 percent in Britain -- in Japan, the figure is 238 percent, but Japan is somewhat exceptional because its debt is held almost entirely by domestic residents and it is a creditor to the rest of the world.)
The fact that high-debt episodes last so long suggests that they are not, as some liberal economists contend, simply a matter of downturns in the business cycle.
In ''This Time Is Different,'' our 2009 history of financial crises over eight centuries, we found that when sovereign debt reached unsustainable levels, so did the cost of borrowing, if it was even possible at all. The current situation confronting Italy and Greece, whose debts date from the early 1990s, long before the 2007-8 global financial crisis, support this view.
The politically charged discussion, especially sharp in the past week or so, has falsely equated our finding of a negative association between debt and growth with an unambiguous call for austerity.
We agree that growth is an elusive goal at times of high debt. We know that cutting spending and raising taxes is tough in a slow-growth economy with persistent unemployment. Austerity seldom works without structural reforms -- for example, changes in taxes, regulations and labor market policies -- and if poorly designed, can disproportionately hit the poor and middle class. Our consistent advice has been to avoid withdrawing fiscal stimulus too quickly, a position identical to that of most mainstream economists.
In some cases, we have favored more radical proposals, including debt restructuring (a polite term for partial default) of public and private debts. Such restructurings helped deal with the debt buildup during World War I and the Depression. We have long favored write-downs of sovereign debt and senior bank debt in the European periphery (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain) to unlock growth.
In the United States, we support reducing mortgage principal on homes that are underwater (where the mortgage is higher than the value of the home). We have also written about plausible solutions that involve moderately higher inflation and ''financial repression'' -- pushing down inflation-adjusted interest rates, which effectively amounts to a tax on bondholders. This strategy contributed to the significant debt reductions that followed World War II.
In short: many countries around the world have extraordinarily high public debts by historical standards, especially when medical and old-age support programs are taken into account. Resolving these debt burdens usually involves a transfer, often painful, from savers to borrowers. This time is no different, and the latest academic kerfuffle should not divert our attention from that fact.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WRITERS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECESSION (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); LITERATURE (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



825 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2406 words

HEADLINE: Reinhart and Rogoff: Responding to Our Critics

BYLINE: By CARMEN M. REINHART and KENNETH S. ROGOFF

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.
LAST week, we were sent a sharply worded paper by three researchers from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, at the same time it was sent to journalists. It asserted serious errors in our article ''Growth in a Time of Debt,'' published in May 2010 in the Papers and Proceedings of the American Economic Review. In an Op-Ed essay for The New York Times, we have tried to defend our research and refute the distorted policy positions that have been attributed to us. In this appendix, we address the technical issues raised by our critics.
These critics, Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash and Robert Pollin, identified a spreadsheet calculation error, but also accused us of two ''serious errors'': ''selective exclusion of available data'' and ''unconventional weighting of summary statistics.''
We acknowledged the calculation error in an online statement posted the night we received the article, but we adamantly deny the other accusations. 
They neglected to report that we included both median and average estimates for growth, at various levels of debt in relation to economic output, going back to 1800. Our paper gave significant weight to the median estimates, precisely because they reduce the problem posed by data outliers, a constant source of concern when doing archival research that reaches far back into economic history spanning several periods of war and economic crises.
When you look at our median estimates, they are actually quite similar to those of the University of Massachusetts researchers. (See the attached table.)
Moreover, our critics omitted mention of our paper Public Debt Overhangs: Advanced-Economy Episodes Since 1800 with Vincent R. Reinhart, published last summer, in The Journal of Economic Perspectives. That paper, which is more thorough than the 2010 paper under attack, gives an average estimate for growth when a country's debt-to-G.D.P. ratio exceeds 90 percent of 2.3 percent -- compared to our critics' figure of 2.2 percent. (Also see the comparisons posted by the blogger known as F. F. Wiley, including his chart, a copy of which accompanies this essay.)
Despite the very small actual differences between our critics' results and ours, some commenters have trumpeted the new paper as a fundamental reassessment of the literature on debt and growth. Our critics have done little to argue otherwise; Mr. Pollin and Mr. Ash made the same claim in an April 17 essay in The Financial Times, where they also ignore our strong exception to the claim by Mr. Herndon, Mr. Ash and Mr. Pollin that we use a ''nonconventional weighting procedure.'' It is the accusation that our weighting procedure is nonconventional that is itself nonconventional. A leading expert in time series econometrics, James D. Hamilton of the University of California, San Diego, wrote (without consulting us) that ''to suggest that there is some deep flaw in the method used by RR or obvious advantage to the alternative favored by HAP is in my opinion quite unjustified.'' (He was using the initials for the last names of the economists involved in this matter.)
Above all, our work hardly amounts to the whole literature on the relationship between debt and growth, which has grown rapidly even since our 2010 paper was published. A number of careful empirical studies have found broadly similar results to ours. But this is not the definitive word, as a smaller number of just as scholarly papers have not found a robust relationship between debt and growth. (Our paper in The Journal of Economic Perspectives included a review of that literature.)
Researchers at the Bank of International Settlements and the International Monetary Fund have weighed in with their own independent work. The World Economic Outlook published last October by the International Monetary Fund devoted an entire chapter to debt and growth. The most recent update to that outlook, released in April, states: ''Much of the empirical work on debt overhangs seeks to identify the 'overhang threshold' beyond which the correlation between debt and growth becomes negative. The results are broadly similar: above a threshold of about 95 percent of G.D.P., a 10 percent increase in the ratio of debt to G.D.P. is identified with a decline in annual growth of about 0.15 to 0.20 percent per year.''
This view generally reflects the state of the art in economic research, and the I.M.F. goes on to give many more subtleties. We have never complained as the body of work we helped to build has evolved -- instead, we have tried to learn from it. In contrast, our critics have politicized the issue, noting the citation of our research by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee last year.
Our critics seem to suggest that they can ignore everything else we have done because we are somehow going around placing great emphasis on one outlier estimate for growth. This is wrong. We have never used anything but the conservative median estimate in our public discussions, where we stated that the difference between growth associated with debt under 90 percent of G.D.P. and debt over 90 percent of G.D.P. is about 1 percentage point. See, for example, a Bloomberg Businessweek article from July 2011 that has been cited as evidence that we are fiscal hawks. In that article, we cite only the median.
Some have claimed that where we have really done damage is not in our public statements, but in what we say behind closed doors to policy makers. Some of those discussions have indeed leaked out over time, but they consistently show that our focus has been the median estimate.
We might add that when we give public opinions and especially when we give policy advice, we base our ideas on our entire experience and knowledge of the literature, never just on our own work.
We are glad the debate has sparked a huge interest in the whole topic, and hope research will now evolve even more quickly. We have shared our data with hundreds of researchers and since 2011 have posted the difficult-to-reconstruct historical debt-to-G.D.P. ratios online in thoroughly documented spreadsheets. The project of posting our data set relating to financial crises is a daunting task. It was the basis for our 2009 book, ''This Time Is Different,'' which was well received throughout the economics profession.
We took great pains to provide the data in as accessible form as possible, including especially meticulous source documentation in the spreadsheets, far more than one sees normally posted with journal papers. So we are simply stunned when bloggers and irresponsible commentators say we have not shared our debt data. Open access to our data has been central to our whole project.
As for the accusations of selective omission of data, there is little appreciation that this is archival research, involving constant judgments at every step. The New Zealand data we used was part of the problem that Herndon et al. allude to biasing the results in favor of lower growth at higher levels of debt. We have since incorporated the correct data in our Journal of Economic perspectives paper. Oddly, Herndon et al. do not mention another data omission. This one was intentional on our part. Back in 2010, we were still sorting inconsistencies in Spanish G.D.P. data from the 1960s from three different sources. Our primary source for real G.D.P. growth was the work of the economic historian Angus Madison. But we also checked his data and, where inconsistencies appeared, refrained from using it. Other sources, including the I.M.F. and Spain's monumental and scholarly historical statistics, had very different numbers. In our 2010 paper, we omitted Spain for the 1960s entirely. Had we included these observations, it would have strengthened our results, since Spain had very low public debt in the 1960s (under 30 percent of G.D.P.), and yet enjoyed very fast average G.D.P. growth (over 6 percent) over that period. We later reconciled this problem for our 2012 paper. This is just an example of what our archival research involves; it is not simply a matter of filling in cells on an Excel spreadsheet from sanitized, easy-to-use databases.
We conclude with a few thoughts to supplement our broader discussion of the issues in our Op-Ed piece. First, we reiterate that the frontier question for research is the issue of causality. Clearly, recessions can cause higher debt, and in some extreme cases drive debt to over 90 percent, though such extreme jumps are rare outside of a financial crisis. We ourselves, in our 2009 book, showed that for postwar systemic financial crises, the average rise in the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio after three years is 86 percent. But in our Journal of Economic Perspectives, we show that the duration of high-debt episodes (debt over 90 percent of G.D.P.) is very long indeed. The paper contains a case-by-case description of each debt overhang episode in advanced economies since 1800. As we note in our essay for The Times, the long duration of the overhangs, averaging 23 years, makes it hard to argue that they are simply the result of recessions driving up debt. We also note in that article that roughly half of all debt overhang episodes are associated with elevated real interest rates, suggesting the kind of vicious feedback loop between debt and growth that the periphery countries of the euro zone are currently suffering. In our view, the only way to break this feedback loop is to have dramatic write-downs of debt.
We also note that a little under half of all cases do not involve higher real interest rates, such as the recent Japanese experience. Our Op-Ed gives reasons debt might still matter, including the way in which it crowds out fiscal space and limits the economy's capacity to respond to shocks. But the root of the problem is still probably the fact that as debt rises, so too does the risk that a turn in interest rates might suddenly take the country from a seemingly safe debt situation to an unsustainable one. The economic literature is replete with examples of this, and many forecasts suggest long-term interest rates will rise significantly over the next decade.
The basic problem for fiscal policy is that interest rates can turn very quickly but debt ratios cannot. So, most countries sensibly exercise some prudence as debt rises. Perhaps they are overly cautious. But the fact that debt levels over 90 percent of G.D.P. are rare (roughly 8 percent of postwar observation in advanced economies) and debt levels over 120 percent of G.D.P. are very rare. It is true that Japan has been an outlier since the 1990s, with gross public debt to G.D.P. exceeding 230 percent. But this ignores the fact that Japan, unlike the United States, is a creditor nation, holding massive dollar reserves that somewhat offset its debt. Until recently, it has always been running a current surplus with the rest of the world while the United States needs to borrow. Some have also used the example of Britain in the 18th century, when gross debt also exceeded 200 percent of G.D.P. Indeed, we include this and any other episode lasting longer than five years for which the data is available.
The graduate students now poring over debt data should consider using the five-year filter used in our 2012 paper. This does not turn out to exclude all that many debt overhang experiences, but it does filter out a few associated with short recessions and postwar remobilizations. The big question today is not how economies do with high debt after a war, but how to handle high debts in peacetime. After a war, when physical capital is destroyed, but human capital remains, it is often possible to rebuild faster. There are also many efficiency benefits from releasing wartime controls and bringing manpower to productive use. But the first few years of such experiences, in any event, might not necessarily capture the problem that one is interested in, of today's peacetime deficits. Again, in our 2012 paper, we explore many reasons debt overhang might matter for growth, at least in theory. But much more needs to be understood.
We again turn readers to our print Op-Ed to understand ideas for bringing debt down. To reiterate, there are four solutions: slow growth and austerity for a very long time, elevated inflation, financial repression and debt restructuring. We have long emphasized the need to use the whole tool kit creatively in the aftermath of a once-in-75-year financial crisis. One of us has widely discussed using financial repression as a means of dealing high debt. Even at the outset of the crisis, one of us advocated mildly high inflation. A Project Syndicate column in December 2008 advocated moderately elevated inflation as means of getting the economy moving again, in part by taking some edge off public and private debts. Bill Clinton's 2011 book ''Right to Work'' cites our proposals to write down subprime mortgage debt on a large scale.
Early on in the financial crisis, in a February 2009 Op-Ed, we concluded that ''authorities should be prepared to allow financial institutions to be restructured through accelerated bankruptcy, if necessary placing them under temporary receivership.''
Significant debt restructurings and write-downs have always been at the core of our proposal for the periphery European Union countries, where it seems to us unlikely that a mix of structural reform and austerity will work.
Finally, we view ourselves as scholars, though obviously given the prominence of book, and the extraordinary circumstances of the financial crisis, politicians will of course try to use our results to advance their cause. We have never advised Mr. Ryan, nor have we worked for President Obama, whose Council of Economic Advisers drew heavily on our work in a chapter of the 2012 Economic Report of the President, recreating and extending the results.
In the campaign, we received great heat from the right for allowing our work to be used by others as a rationalization for the country's slow recovery from the financial crisis. Now we are being attacked by the left -- primarily by those who have a view that the risks of higher public debt should not be part of the policy conversation. Above all, we resent the attempt to impugn our academic integrity. Doing archival research involves making constant judgments and yes, on occasion, mistakes. Learning from them is how science advances. We hope that we and others can learn from ours.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATISTICS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



826 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 6191 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Bull' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Mike Bartlett raised plenty of eyebrows -- and landed on last year's Top 10 list of The New York Times critic Ben Brantley -- with ''Cockfight Play.'' Now, in what is being called a companion piece, Mr. Bartlett looks at a different realm of questionable behavior, this time focusing on the workplace. With three candidates vying for two jobs, chivalry is presumably dead and gone. It's part of 59E59's seven-show Brits Off Broadway festival. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Eric Grode) 
'Bunty Berman Presents...' (in previews; opens on May 9) The New Group had a hit in 2008 with Ayub Khan Din's ''Rafta, Rafta...,'' a delightful comedy about Indian families in England's working-class North West. The same playwright returns with another ellipsis, this time attached to a Bollywood-style musical about a 1950s Bombay film producer (now played by Mr. Din) whose star is fading, along with that of his once adored leading man. Mr. Din wrote the book and lyrics, and shared composing duties with Paul Bogaev. After doing a bang-up job on the earlier work, Scott Elliott again directs. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)
'Core Values' (in previews; opens on May 6) Is there anyone working right now who projects working-stiff pathos better than Reed Birney? His sad-sack nobility, seen to such stirring effect in ''Circle Mirror Transformation'' and ''Uncle Vanya,'' seems ideally suited to this new workplace drama by Steven Levenson (''The Language of Tree''). It seems safe to assume that the setting -- a weekend staff retreat for a small travel agency -- won't offer much in the way of respite for the workaday stresses. Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, arsnovanyc.com. (Grode)
'A Family for All Occasions' (in previews; opens on May 12) The Labyrinth Theater looks to two of its leading lights, Philip Seymour Hoffman and the playwright Bob Glaudini, for this latest look into familial dysfunction. Mr. Hoffman starred in Mr. Glaudini's ''Jack Goes Boating'' in 2007, and now he's directing a group of other Labyrinth stalwarts (including Deirdre O'Connell and Jeffrey DeMunn) in this look at the upheavals that happen when a recent retiree's daughter brings her new boyfriend home. Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village, (212) 513-1080, labtheater.org. (Grode)
'I'm a Stranger Here Myself' (previews start on Monday; opens on Thursday) Mark Nadler has spent the last 25 years building a sterling reputation as a cabaret artist, with a particular focus on the Jazz Age concoctions of Gershwin, Porter, Berlin, etc. Here the Champagne is laced with arsenic, as he shifts his attention to the men and women who flourished in Weimar Germany. Some of them, notably Kurt Weill and Marlene Dietrich, left this febrile hotbed in time; many others did not. York Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Grode)
'The Memory Show' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Perhaps the success of ''Next to Normal,'' which dealt with bipolar disorder, has paved the way for musical treatments of other health woes. This piece by Zach Redler and Sara Cooper also follows a family (here a mother and a daughter) as it grapples with the mother's illness (Alzheimer's disease). Joe Calarco directed Catherine Cox and the up-and-comer Leslie Kritzer in a Barrington Stage Company production in 2010, and now all three are doing the same for the adventurous Transport Group. The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, new42.org. (Grode)
'Nikolai and the Others' (in previews; opens on May 6) The always inventive David Cromer directs a large cast that includes Blair Brown, Michael Cerveris, Alvin Epstein, Kathryn Erbe, John Glover and Stephen Kunken in this latest excursion into history from Richard Nelson. Set in Westport, Conn., during a spring weekend in 1948, the play considers the questionable ways in which American art was financed at the start of the cold war. It focuses on a gathering of Russian émigrés, including George Balanchine and Igor Stravinsky, retracing the roots of their collaboration on the ballet ''Orpheus.'' Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Old-Fashioned Prostitutes (A True Romance)' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on May 7) He's baaaaaa-aack! Richard Foreman seems to have come out of retirement more times than Michael Jordan, Jay-Z and Brett Favre combined, and this time this enigmatic writer-director-designer has returned to one of his original stamping grounds. Plot synopses can always be a little dodgy with Mr. Foreman, but emotional heartbreak, an elusive coquette and an ''enigmatic fairy tale'' are among the promised bits. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Grode)
'A Public Reading of an Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on May 9) If you ever thought Epcot Center represented the cutting edge of futuristic coolness, fasten your seat belts. Walt Disney had far more ambitious plans for the city of the future, and the playwright Lucas Hnath has turned these world-changing ambitions into a heady mix of fact, fiction and oddness. Starring Larry Pine, a character actor beloved by both Wes Anderson and André Gregory, in the title role. Soho Rep, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, sohorep.org. (Grode)
'This Side of Neverland' (in previews; opens on May 5) One of the Mint Theater's earliest resuscitation efforts came with a pair of plays by A. A. Milne, showing a creative world beyond the Hundred Acre Wood and its four-legged inhabitants. Now the Pearl Theater looks for similar success with J.M. Barrie of ''Peter Pan'' fame, with the help of two lesser-known one-act plays -- ''Rosalind'' (1914) and ''The Twelve-Pound Look'' (1921) -- that have very much grown up. Pearl Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 563-9261, pearltheatre.org. (Grode)
'White Hot' (previews start on Friday; opens on May 7) Let's hope the Flea Theater has a grief counselor on hand. In recent years, the enterprising theater has subjected its acting ensemble of Bats, as they're known, to racism (''I Hate ____ Mexicans''), sword-and-sorcery shenanigans (''She Kills Monsters'') and far worse (''Job''). Judging from the promotional materials, Tommy Smith's ''brutal comedy'' should settle in perfectly (un)comfortably alongside these offerings. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Grode)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynn Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly Charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Big Knife' Bobby Cannavale stars in the first (and last?) Broadway revival of Clifford Odets's 1949 drama about a movie star in a moral bind: to knuckle under to studio blackmail and sign his life and artistic aspirations away, or leave behind the corrupt system and risk reprisals. Doug Hughes's sluggish production doesn't make a case for the play's enduring merits; Odets handled similar themes with more urgency and cogency in ''Golden Boy,'' seen earlier this season in a superior revival (2:20). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Jekyll & Hyde' Frank Wildhorn musicals are the crab grass of Broadway, and this gothic musical from 1997, with a cliché-riddled book and lyrics by Leslie Bricusse, started the scourge. Constantine Maroulis (''Rock of Ages''), as the titular duo, and the disco diva Deborah Cox, as the hooker with lungs of steel to match a heart of gold, sing the throat-thrashing score with impressive ease (2:20). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway at 45th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Lucky Guy' Nora Ephron's elegy and valentine to the rough-and-tumble of big-city newsrooms and scoop-hungry reporters, starring Tom Hanks as the columnist Michael McAlary, is written with a true fan's avidity. Directed with bells and whistles by George C. Wolfe, this is less a fully developed play than a boisterous swapping of fond anecdotes about the end of a life and the end of an era (2:00). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Macbeth' Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joyride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Orphans' In Lyle Kessler's 1983 play about motherless thugs, knives, guns, rope and fists are deployed to violent ends. Yet Daniel Sullivan's limp revival somehow plays like a sentimental sitcom, perhaps a low-rent ''Modern Family.'' Alec Baldwin, in slippery mode, plays the avuncular gangster, held hostage by two brothers: Ben Foster and the remarkably hyperkinetic Tom Sturridge (1:45). Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Testament of Mary' A great actress, Fiona Shaw, and a fine, trenchant script by Colm Toibin struggle to assert themselves in this one-woman show about the mother of Jesus, directed with far too many flourishes by Deborah Warner. Though Ms. Shaw is as commanding as ever, she is ultimately overwhelmed by hysterical stagecraft (1:25). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'According to Goldman' The more promising their script becomes, the more two screenwriters find their partnership is at risk in this play produced by Theater Breaking Through Barriers (1:45). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, tbtb.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'The Call' Tanya Barfield's thoughtful, absorbing drama explores the tensions that arise when a white couple (the terrific Kerry Butler and Kelly AuCoin) decide to adopt an African baby. Their African-American friends, a lesbian couple well played by Eisa Davis and Crystal A. Dickinson, have different perspectives on their choice. Leigh Silverman directs (1:50). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'The Dance of Death' Daniel Davis and Laila Robins star in an underpowered revival of August Strindberg's 1900 drama of ferocious marital discord. Directed by Joseph Hardy for the Red Bull Theater (2:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, redbulltheater.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Drawer Boy' The Oberon Theater Ensemble does a fine job with this lovely play by Michael Healey about two farmers, one with a brain injury, and the writer who comes to observe them for the purposes of writing a play about farming. The humor is left wry and dry, and when it comes time to reveal the story of how the two men arrived at their present state, heartstrings are tugged expertly (2:00). Soho Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Finks' The subject matter, the blacklist of the 1950s, may have been visited before, but this bracing production by the Ensemble Studio Theater gets your blood boiling all over again thanks to lively performances by Aaron Serotsky and especially Miriam Silverman. They play a couple who are caught up in the witch hunt, and the playwright, Joe Gilford, drew on the experiences of his own parents, actors who were blacklisted, to create the story (2:15). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'Fragments' A setting of five short pieces by Samuel Beckett, directed with becoming simplicity by Peter Brook and Marie-Hélène Estienne, that showcase the writer's peerless gift for theatrical economy, as well as the glinting comic light that shines from much of his work (1:00). Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, tfana.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; '_______ Up Everything' The unprintable title of this winsome rock musical is trying way too hard to shock and awe. But then, so are all the show's characters, who are Brooklyn faux-hemians desperately trying to prove their anti-establishment bona fides. Poking fun at the pasty-white underbelly of Brooklyn's hipster crowd is like shooting free-range ducks in an artisanal barrel, but with catchy music and a talented cast, this show still does so exquisitely well (1:35). Elektra Theater, 669 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, fueonstage.com. (Catherine Rampell)
'Futurology the Musical' A lot of Anthony J. Dixon and Sandra J. Barnes's tale of three glamorous astronauts from the future trying to save a young actress-singer from her own ego could have been written by a high school student. But there are some nice melodies, and the female lead's best friend turns into a youngish Tina Turner (2:15). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, futurologythemusical.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'The Last Five Years' Jason Robert Brown has mounted a stylish production of his two-character musical about the waxing and waning of young love. Adam Kantor and Betsy Wolfe play aspiring artists whose paths diverge. Their story is told in songs that are skillfully written but, like his characters, are on the generic side (1:25). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Isherwood)
'The Last Will' In the final work of a trilogy about William Shakespeare, Robert Brustein imagines the end of his life, and specifically how his curious will came about. Lots of trivia and references to the plays that Shakespeare buffs will enjoy, and a quirky performance by Austin Pendleton as Shakespeare (1:25). June Havoc Theater, Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-2055, abingdontheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Madrid' Edie Falco, whose face usually seems like an open window, pulls down the blinds in Liz Flahive's muted, murky play about a runaway kindergarten teacher, directed by Leigh Silverman. Ms. Flahive has a poet's hand for echoing imagery. But this production often feels paralyzed in its contemplation of the mystery of everyday lives (2:10). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)
'Mayday Mayday' In this amiable if insubstantial solo show, the British actor Tristan Sturrock, who starred on Broadway in ''Brief Encounter,'' recounts his recovery from a harrowing accident in which he broke his neck. Directed by Mr. Sturrock's wife, Katy Carmichael (1:10). St. Ann's Warehouse, 29 Jay Street, at Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812' (reopens on Wednesday) When Dave Malloy's improbably wonderful electro-pop opera based on ''War & Peace'' opened in the fall, audience members were crowded together with Tolstoy's characters in an intimate setting: Ars Nova's theater, which had been transformed into a kind of basement nightclub, chockablock with tables and complete with vodka and pierogis. Singing about their loves and woes, the introspective, emotional, impetuous characters somehow felt like old friends -- and drinking buddies. Can that spirit be retained when the show moves to a new home in the meatpacking district, a Russian supper club built specifically for the production? Rachel Chavkin, who made marvelous use of her space and cast in the original staging, directs again (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Saltz)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Plenty of Time' John Shévin Foster's comic drama, set on Martha's Vineyard between 1968 and 2011, is just a pleasant, lightweight update of ''Same Time, Next Year,'' this time with an aspiring Black Panther and an Oak Bluffs debutante. Likable cast, though (1:45). Castillo Theater, 543 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 941-5800, castillo.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Talley's Folly' Danny Burstein and Sarah Paulson give performances of translucent feeling in this loving Roundabout Theater Company revival of Lanford Wilson's 1979 romantic pas de deux about two misfits in 1944 Missouri trying to find a mutual rhythm. Directed with sympathy and insight by Michael Wilson (1:35). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
Extravaganzas
&#x2605; 'Cirque du Soleil: Totem' This offering from Cirque du Soleil is far more exciting than some of its past shows, and more geared toward adults than children (2:30). Lot C, Citi Field, 126th Street and Roosevelt Avenue, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, cirquedusoleil.com/totem. (Jaworowski)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mama, I Want to Sing' New blood energizes the long-running gospel musical. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Bootlegging it, Gershwin-style (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' (closes on Sunday) One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
'Apple' (closes on Sunday) Andy, a laid-off loser, has an affair with a hot stranger who improbably turns out to be both a real estate client of and clinician to his shrewish, cancer-stricken wife. The melodrama does a spot-on, if unknowing, impression of a Lifetime movie, as it burbles with bathos, tragic-illness clichés, cheap coincidences, tearful confessions of star-crossed love, gratuitous alcoholism, even that cheesy transition music. The only thing that's missing is the ability to change the channel (2:00). The Drilling Company Theater, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Donnybrook!' (closes on Sunday) This revival of Johnny Burke and Robert E. McEnroe's 1961 musical (itself an adaptation of ''The Quiet Man,'' the 1952 St. Patrick's Day perennial about an Irish-American boxer's fraught courtship of a redheaded spitfire), jettisons the most dated, disturbing and indulgent elements of the movie but retains the essential sentimental blarney. With a fine cast and crisp direction by Charlotte Moore, the result is as fresh as a morning after rain in the west of Ireland (2:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' (closes on Sunday) Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals packs polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'I Am an Opera' (closes on Saturday) The talented performer Joseph Keckler takes his audience through a surreal, largely autobiographical account of a bad mushroom trip, reconceived (in foreign languages and with original music) as an amusing if scattered pastiche of opera (:55). Dixon Place, 161 Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org. (Zachary Woolfe)
&#x2605; 'Julius Caesar' (closes on Sunday) The blood runs warm in the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of this Shakespeare tragedy, which has ingeniously been reset in contemporary, civil war-torn Africa. In putting aside what we normally think of as ''Roman manners,'' and introducing a greater emotional transparency, Gregory Doran's version vibrantly emphasizes the human fallibility of Shakespeare's noble characters (2:40). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Revisionist' (closes on Saturday) As a Polish Holocaust survivor in Jesse Eisenberg's somewhat implausible new play, Vanessa Redgrave reminds us why she's considered the greatest actress of her generation. She inhabits her character with precision and authority, making us feel like humble, privileged trespassers in an exotic world. Mr. Eisenberg almost holds his own portraying her graceless young American cousin (1:45). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Brantley)
'Sleeping Rough' (closes on Saturday) Kara Manning's new play -- a production of Page 73, which nurtures the work of emerging playwrights -- is a study of grief that suffers from the over-literary quality of its dialogue. The characters are so smothered in cultural references and signifiers that they never become people you care about (1:40). Wild Project, 195 East Third Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, page73.org. (Saltz)
&#x2605; 'So Go the Ghosts of México, Part One' (closes on Sunday) In 2010 a 20-year-old criminology student and new mom volunteered for a job no one else would take: chief of police in a Mexican town overrun by drug gangs. (To give you a sense of either the courage or foolhardiness involved in her decision: her predecessor had been tortured and beheaded.) Matthew Paul Olmos skillfully adapts her true story in this chilling new play, which relies on inventive lighting and sound design, as well as more supernatural elements like zombies and possessed music (1:45). La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Rampell)
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FESTIVALS (78%); FAMILY (74%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); WRITERS (70%); THEATER (59%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); INDIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



827 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Five Years After Ike, Galveston Is Still Picking Up the Pieces

BYLINE: By AUDREY WHITE. 
awhite@texastribune.org

 BODY:
GALVESTON -- From his 18th-floor law office, Buddy Herz, the head of the Galveston Housing Authority and a lifelong resident of this city, can point out how his view has changed since Hurricane Ike slammed into the island in 2008.
He identifies a patch of grass where a public housing complex once stood. A few blocks over is the University of Texas Medical Branch, which was heavily damaged but is now a symbol of the city's resurgence.
''It's a lot cleaner today than it was before Hurricane Ike,'' Mr. Herz said. ''The town is much smaller, so the business opportunities are much fewer unless you're in tourism, medicine or construction.'' Ike was directly responsible for at least 103 deaths, 17 of them in Texas. The storm caused more than $50 billion in damage, making it what probably was the costliest hurricane ever to hit the state, according to the Governor's Commission for Disaster Recovery and Renewal.
Nowhere was Ike's impact more evident than on Galveston Island, which had not seen such devastation since the hurricane of 1900. Eighty percent of its homes and almost all of its operating infrastructure were damaged by Ike's high winds and devastating flooding. The city has about 48,000 residents today, compared with 57,000 before the storm. 
Five years later, Galveston still faces challenges. Houses stand vacant, the city remains locked in litigation with a state-run insurance agency over damage claims, and a fight with the state over rebuilding public housing is finally nearing resolution.
Still, many city leaders remain optimistic and are banking on rebuilding efforts to ensure that Galveston will be ready for any future natural disaster.
''We are still dealing with Ike every day,'' said Brian Maxwell, the assistant city manager. ''We are trying very, very hard to not just fix things. We want our community to be sustainable should we have another major hit from a hurricane.''
Mr. Maxwell declined to comment on the city's legal fight with the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association, or TWIA, the embattled wind damage insurer of last resort for coastal residents. The city is seeking millions from TWIA, including up to $3 million, the policy limit, to repair City Hall. Mr. Maxwell said residents were struggling to recoup money from TWIA as well. But TWIA's liabilities exceed its assets by $183 million. It has paid billions in claims to Texas homeowners and millions more on lawsuits related to mishandled claims.
Legislators, including Representative Craig Eiland, Democrat of Galveston, are working to reform TWIA Mr. Eiland said that overhauling the financing model and the insurance adjuster process are crucial to making sure that TWIA's failures do not prolong recovery after another hurricane. Improving TWIA will help protect Galveston residents, especially those with low incomes, he said.
''It's the people that don't have the capability to just finance repairs and reconstruction straight out of their pocket that were most impacted by TWIA and, to a lesser extent, the other insurance companies,'' he said.
Critics have said that the city has been too slow to rebuild public housing destroyed by the storm. Amid changes to program oversight and disagreement over the type of public housing to build, the Galveston Housing Authority has rebuilt only 40 of the 569 public housing units it lost.
The release of at least $105 million in federal recovery aid to Galveston was held up this month by the Texas General Land Office because of the issue. And the office threatened to force the city to reimburse aid already distributed if it did not promptly move forward to rebuild the housing.
The City Council and the Housing Authority recently approved a plan in line with the land office's wishes, and the authority is to begin rebuilding housing in the form of mixed-income apartment buildings that will include 51 percent public housing units and 49 percent market-rate units.
The Land Office is responsible for building scattered housing sites to provide additional public housing units.
Many Galvestonians preferred a system relying primarily on vouchers to ''deconcentrate poverty and help the poor,'' Mr. Herz said. ''But that is not to be. We will live with what we have to live with.''
The $105 million is being delayed until the housing authority begins construction of the units, said Jim Suydam, a land office spokesman. The authority and the land office should break ground on public housing within six months, Mr. Herz and Mr. Suydam said.
Peggy Paul, a Galveston school district employee who grew up on the island, hopes she can finally return home. She used public housing vouchers to move to small towns near Galveston when she could not find public housing on the island after Ike. She said her frustration with the city grew as public housing faced continued delays and she experienced problems as a tenant in other towns. For example, one landlord accused her of not paying rent, which led to a legal fight that ultimately cleared her.
''I had abuse by landlords. I had theft,'' Ms. Paul said. ''And the city is playing politics with my life.''
But recovery is moving rapidly in other parts of the city. Leaders at the U.T. Medical Branch said they were rebuilding an even better medical school and hospital after the storm flooded most of the facilities and put much of the hospital, which includes a trauma center and one of the nation's top burn centers, out of commission for up to four months. (The University of Texas Medical Branch is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.) Dr. David L. Callender, the medical branch's president, said the administration maintained the vision it had before Ike.
''We went forward with much of the pre-Ike goals, just on a different timeline,'' Dr. Callender said. Efforts at the school to mitigate the impact of future storms range from extensive and expensive -- using durable materials like concrete and fiberglass instead of wood and metal -- to simple, like placing electrical outlets higher along walls.
The school says it has a statewide economic impact of about $4 billion and supports 26,000 jobs. A new hospital will be ready to receive patients in 2016. The rebuilding of the U.T. Medical Branch is a victory for the island and the state, Mr. Eiland said.
City officials are proclaiming infrastructure improvements, too. A new water treatment plant and sewer system are to be built to withstand a Category 5 hurricane. First responders have developed new procedures and bolstered emergency response equipment and facilities, Fire Chief Jeff Smith said. And the tourism industry is stronger than ever, officials and residents said.
Mr. Maxwell, the assistant city manager and a fifth-generation Galvestonian, said he ''wouldn't trade our island's future with anyone's.''
''Until you've been through a recovery during these modern times, you can't plan for it all,'' he said. ''We probably won't get hit like that for another 50 to 100 years, but if we are, we're probably better prepared than anyone else to take it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The University of Texas Medical Branch, which was heavily damaged in 2008, is being rebuilt to withstand the impact of future storms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); INSURANCE (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (64%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (64%); LITIGATION (64%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



828 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Boutique Vintners Turn to Private Equity for Help

BYLINE: By SARAH MAX

 BODY:
When Ed Sbragia started Sbragia Family Vineyards, it was an accomplishment that was nearly a century in the making.
His grandfather moved from Italy to California in 1904 to work in the wineries just north of San Francisco. In the 1940s, Mr. Sbragia's father bought property in the Dry Creek Valley near Healdsburg and planted zinfandel grapes, which he sold to local winemakers and used for his own home wine.
Mr. Sbragia, 64, got his start in the wine business at Beringer Vineyards, one of Napa Valley's oldest, and worked his way up to become one of the most decorated winemakers in the region.
He teamed up with his son Adam in 2002 to make limited lots of wine sourced primarily from the family property. When a small vineyard and facility 10 miles up the road went on the market in 2006, it was an opportunity he could not pass up. 
''All of a sudden a little project became a bigger project,'' said Mr. Sbragia, who stepped down from his full-time position at Beringer in 2008.
After the recession, however, Mr. Sbragia was at an impasse. His wine had been well received -- selling out quickly in fact -- but he faced a laundry list of expenses and few good options for financing them. He needed to buy more grapes, revamp his tasting room and replace his aging French oak barrels, at a cost of $1,000 each.
Meanwhile, Mr. Sbragia needed help with various aspects of the business. Finance, distribution, marketing and sales ''are not my expertise,'' he said. ''I make wine.''
In 2011, he found an unlikely partner in Bacchus Capital Management, a private equity group co-founded by Sam Bronfman II, the grandson of Seagram's founder. The firm, which has offices in New York and San Francisco, invests exclusively in wineries and wine-related businesses.
In 2007, it raised $40 million for its first fund, which is now nearly fully invested with $2 million to $7 million stakes in more than half a dozen West Coast wineries, including the racecar driver Mario Andretti's Andretti Winery in Napa Valley and Wine by Joe in the Willamette Valley in Oregon. The firm is contemplating another fund, this time in the $100 million to $200 million range.
For many people, private equity conjures the image of ruthless financiers with a singular focus on profit. Bacchus Capital's two other founding partners, Peter S. Kaufman and Henry F. Owsley, have done their share of hard-nosed restructuring deals through their boutique investment bank, the Gordian Group. The wine fund takes a much kinder approach.
''We're big on the concept of partnering with talented entrepreneurial winemakers, who are faced with 'how do I get my wines sold,' '' said Mr. Bronfman, who was previously chairman of Diageo Global Wines and president of Seagram Chateau and Estate Wines. ''We free up these incredibly talented winemakers to do what they do best.''
The idea for a private equity wine fund was born when Mr. Bronfman, 59, left Diageo in 2003 and set out to create his own portfolio of premium wineries. For help, he turned to Mr. Kaufman, an expert in mergers and acquisitions and a friend since childhood.
''He can go in and get a feel for these winemakers from a totally different perspective than someone from the wine business,'' Mr. Bronfman said.
It was Mr. Kaufman's partner, Mr. Owsley, who suggested they start a wine fund that would offer debt financing in addition to private equity.
The fund initially got off to a slow start on the equity side. Before the financial crisis, valuations for premier wineries ''were more than we could stomach,'' Mr. Kaufman said. Wineries were selling for the equivalent of 12 to 15 times trailing Ebida (earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization). Today, valuations have fallen, while there is still a dearth of capital.
''Unless you're a Mondavi with huge enterprise brand value, banks are primarily lending on a formula,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''If you're not in their box, there's no money.''
Yet for high-quality producers with the right distribution model, the fundamentals are sound, he said. Wine consumption in the United States has been steadily increasing for the last couple of decades, according to the Wine Market Council, and remained robust during the recession.
Bacchus Capital partners think there is still plenty of potential for growth, particularly when it comes to premium wines. Meanwhile, wineries that can improve their direct-to-consumer distribution through wine clubs and tasting room sales also have tremendous potential, Mr. Bronfman said. Although traditional distribution channels, like restaurants and retailers, are still critical, they can reduce margins by as much as a third, he noted.
''People laugh when they first hear we have a fund that invests in wineries,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''A well-run high-end winery should have gross margins in the 60 percent range and Ebida margins in the 20 percent to 25 percent range.'' To put that in perspective, he said, in traditional manufacturing ''you're lucky if you get Ebida margins of 10 percent.''
Convincing artisan vintners -- wary of losing control -- of the benefits of a private equity investment was initially a challenge. In addition to concerns about how the operation would change with outside investors, there was the question of exit strategy. ''Each of these wineries is special; these are not widget factories,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''There will be no one formula for exit.''
Joe Dobbes counted himself among the skeptics of private equity. Mr. Dobbes founded Wine by Joe in 2002 with $50,000 and managed to expand his winery in Dundee, Ore., into one of the largest in the state, producing 130,000 cases last year.
Meeting one of Bacchus's managing directors at an industry event caused him to revise his impression of private equity. In 2011, he tested the waters with debt financing and then closed on an equity deal earlier this year.
''I felt I had taken the company as far as I personally could,'' said Mr. Dobbes, who is, among other things, looking to expand his brand outside the Pacific Northwest and improve his direct-to-consumer sales.
While the infusion of capital certainly helps, perhaps a bigger factor was the reputation and expertise that come with the partnership. ''I got with this a team of coaches who have been in the industry for years,'' Mr. Dobbes said.
Less than two years after teaming up with Bacchus Capital, Mr. Sbragia is satisfied with the results. The partnership allowed him to bring in a general manager, industry veteran Steve Cousins, invest in new equipment and improve direct-to-consumer sales by 20 percent last year. He and his son are spending more time thinking about making wine and less time worrying about long-term budgets and marketing plans.
For Mr. Sbragia, sharing a stake in the winery was no easy decision.
''One thing I felt very strong about was that I had a group of people working for me and I needed to protect them,'' said Mr. Sbragia, who spoke with more than a dozen individuals or entities about investing in the winery before teaming up with Bacchus.
''There were people who wanted 100 percent of the company and I would be a hired hand.''
While he would like to grow -- last year he produced 16,000 cases and would like to increase that to 24,000 in the next couple of years -- he doesn't want to do so at the expense of the quality of the wine or his family's legacy.
''We're a family-owned Dry Creek winery and want to stay there,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bacchus Capital Management was founded in 2007 by, from left, Henry F. Owsley, Sam Bronfman II and Peter S. Kaufman, visiting the Sbragia family's La Promessa vineyard.
 Ed Sbragia in his barrel room. Seeking technical help with his business, he found an unlikely partner, Bacchus Capital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); MERCHANT BANKING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



829 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: The Safety of Chemicals

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Think Those Chemicals Have Been Tested?'' (news analysis, Sunday Review, April 14) and ''A Toothless Law on Toxic Chemicals'' (editorial, April 19): 
There has been misinformation and negative publicity about high-profile chemicals, resulting in public anxiety and calls to overhaul existing laws. We agree that it is past time to reform our chemical control law, but scare stories don't serve the cause.
To liken the Toxic Substances Control Act to statutes that regulate pesticides, drugs and food additives would be misguided and economically foolish. If chemicals were treated as such, many everyday products would no longer be available.
Most chemicals can be and are used safely; however, any could cause harm if not used properly. This is why the Environmental Protection Agency does not typically ban chemicals outright; rather, it restricts use based on exposure.
The E.P.A. doesn't require upfront data on new chemicals; the agency uses precautionary models to generate worst-case scenarios. It also looks at similar substances for comparison.
More chemicals are detected via biomonitoring -- measuring chemicals in human tissues. Technology allows us to determine concentrations at parts per trillion. This detection does not equate to harm, as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention regularly notes.
BILL ALLMOND Washington, April 23, 2013
The writer is vice president for government and public relations at the Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (91%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PESTICIDES (78%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); WRITERS (73%); CHEMICALS (73%); PESTICIDE REGULATION (72%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



830 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: A Recession's Daunting Reach

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- No company symbolizes German industrial might like Daimler, the giant maker of Mercedes-Benz autos and trucks. So when the company said this week that it, too, had finally been caught in the downdraft of the European economic crisis, it was an ominous sign for all of the Continent, if not the whole world.
German exporters like Daimler have been bastions of stability on a continent burdened with shaky banks, dysfunctional governments and legions of unemployed youth -- not to mention the worst auto industry slump in two decades. But Daimler's glum forecast for 2013 was the latest evidence that Germany, and other relatively healthy countries like Austria and Finland, risk falling into the recession that has long afflicted their southern neighbors.
The slowdown in Germany was foreshadowed by months of declining industrial output, said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. ''The E.U. has made Europe a much more cohesive economy, which is good when things are going up,'' he said. ''But when things are going down the multiplier is very strong. An outgoing tide lowers all ships.'' 
The region's overall economic weakness as well as slowing demand in China and other big markets for German exports of consumer products, cars and sophisticated machine tools, industrial robots and construction equipment are finally taking their toll.
Just one more consecutive quarter of shrinking economic output and Germany would officially enter a recession. The same is true of Belgium, France, Luxembourg, Austria, even Sweden and Finland. The Netherlands has already suffered two quarters of declining gross domestic product.
Further evidence of the spreading European recession came Thursday, first from Madrid, where the Spanish government reported that unemployment had reached a record level: 27.2 percent. Then new economic data from London indicated that Britain had barely avoided slipping back into recession for the third time since 2008.
''The reality is that Europe still faces severe vulnerabilities that -- if unaddressed -- could degenerate into a stagnation scenario,'' David Lipton, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said in London on Thursday.
If Germany slips into recession, much would slide down with it. Germany and the other 26 countries of the European Union together represent the world's second-largest economy and as a bloc it is the single largest United States trading partner. The further delay in Europe's recovery that a German recession would cause would seriously hamper growth in the United States, Asia and Latin America.
What growth remains in the region is coming mostly from countries in Eastern Europe. Poland is protected by its large domestic market and a healthy banking system. After a severe downturn that began in 2008, growth is rebounding in the Baltic nations of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia. In that recession, wages fell, real estate prices dropped and banks worked through the painful process of improving their financial condition.
Unemployment there is by no means low, but those countries benefit by being the low-wage economies of Europe. They continue to attract investment of capital. It also helps that those economies, with the exception of Estonia, do not use the euro as their currency. They can adjust their currency more easily to changing economic conditions in the rest of the world, and their economic planners have more policy tools than simply adjusting interest rates.
In Germany, there is little overt sign of crisis. Unemployment is 5.4 percent compared with an average of 10.9 percent in Europe. Nevertheless, polls show businesses are growing pessimistic. ''The German market cannot decouple from this environment,'' Bodo K. Uebber, the Daimler chief financial officer, told analysts Wednesday.
The problem for the rest of Europe is that any hope for recovery is pinned on a robust German economy. Companies in Spain and Italy have depended on German demand to compensate for a collapse in consumer spending in their own countries.
''In my area there are some enterprises that work 100 percent to serve Germany,'' said Mario Moretti Polegato, the founder and chief executive of Geox, a shoemaker based in Montebelluna, Italy, near Venice.
Geox, known for shoes with waterproof but breathable soles, sells its products around the world and is not dependent on any one market. Still, Italy accounted for 35 percent of the company's total revenue last year, and those sales fell 15 percent as Italy remained stuck in a recession that began in mid-2011.
Geox sales in Germany helped to offset the decline, Mr. Polegato said by telephone. Germany is also a critical market for his family's wine business, which sells bubbly prosecco under the Villa Sandi and La Gioiosa brands. ''The first market is Germany,'' Mr. Polegato said. That is true for most winemakers in the Veneto region, he said.
The worst case, said Mr. Weinberg, the economist, would be a depression caused by the failure of political leaders to fix the region's many weak banks and restore the flow of credit.
The worsening economic situation has raised hopes that the European Central Bank will come to the rescue, as it has so often since 2010 when the debt crisis began in the euro zone, the 17 countries in the European Union that use the euro. Somewhat perversely, the dismal economic news this week prompted a rally in stocks and bonds, as investors bet that the unexpectedly bad business surveys would prod the central bank to lower interest rates.
Economists now expect the bank to cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent when it meets on Thursday in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, another of the few euro zone countries still growing.
Many business people would welcome a cut because it would tend to lower the value of the euro compared with the dollar and other major currencies, and make it easier for European exporters to sell their comparatively cheaper products abroad.
''It would be a sign that policy makers understand it is time to find a way to compete,'' said Marco Tronchetti Provera, chief executive of the Italian tire maker Pirelli.
But it is unlikely that a rate cut would address a more fundamental problem in the euro zone: the lack of credit in countries that need it most.
Extraordinary measures by the central bank, including virtually unlimited loans to euro zone banks at the rock-bottom official interest rate, have not trickled down to help corporate borrowers in countries like Spain or Italy. The lack of credit is particularly vexing for the small and medium-size companies that are too small to raise money on the bond market and thus depend on banks.
Signs of a spreading recession are also strengthening the position of those people who argue that countries like Portugal, Spain and Greece should not be compelled to cut government spending so quickly. They say countries that have budget surpluses, like Germany, should increase spending to stimulate demand.
''The fiscal compact is going to kill Europe,'' said Mr. Provera of Pirelli, referring to the agreement among euro zone members to reduce deficit spending.
Mr. Provera reflects the growing sentiment among leaders like José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, that policy should be more oriented toward growth and not just budget cutting.
In an election year, though, German Chancellor Angela Merkel is not likely to forsake the fiscal prudence that has helped make her popular among debt-averse voters.
All the talk about austerity -- meaning cuts in government spending -- may miss the bigger point, though. Many of the most troubled countries have yet to make changes that economists say would spur growth. Reducing the size of a bloated Civil Service and eliminating rules that discourage companies from hiring and firing would not cost very much but many governments consider such moves politically perilous.
Germany went through the painful process of rewriting its labor regulations a decade ago, one reason that the economy was able to defy the crisis until recently.
In the meantime, Italian companies like Pirelli are trimming jobs in Europe and instead investing in Asia and other markets that seem to offer more promise.
Mr. Polegato, the Geox founder, expressed faith that Italian creativity and design would eventually prevail and that the country would recover.
But he sounded less certain about the prospects for better government. ''A lot of Italian politicians have no feeling for the real economy or business,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ominous sign in Spain, above, where the unemployment rate is a staggering 27.2 percent. In Poland, an ad for Louis Vuitton, right looms over a street in Warsaw. Banks in Poland are strong and the economy there is relatively healthy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN MEDINA/REUTERS
 KACPER PEMPEL/REUTERS) (B2) MAP: Signs of the European Union's Weakening Economies: Some of the largest economies in Europe -- Germany, France, Britain and Sweden, among others -- shrank in the fourth quarter of 2012. Though some of them grew last year over all, high unemployment rates and the prospect of a weaker German economy have raised fears of a widespread recession. (Source: Eurostat) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); ROBOTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); POLAND (94%); BALTIC STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); LATVIA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



831 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires Clash Over Socialite's Child Support Claims

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
As an accomplished mountaineer who has scaled many of the world's highest peaks, including Mount Everest, Annabelle Bond has found herself in some dicey situations.
Now she finds herself in a very different sort of predicament -- a nasty legal fight between a former lover and her current one.
Her boyfriend, Andrew Cader, a former Goldman Sachs executive and part owner of the Tampa Bay Rays baseball franchise, is accused of conspiring with Ms. Bond to hide her true financial condition so that she could secure more than $50,000 a month in child support payments last December from the Wall Street financier Warren G. Lichtenstein, who has a 5-year-old daughter with the British socialite.
Ms. Bond deviously obtained the outsize child support from a Hong Kong court to ''improve upon her already extraordinary life of luxury, privilege and modest fame,'' contends the lawsuit, which was filed by Mr. Lichtenstein in Federal District Court in Manhattan. 
That Ms. Bond lives an extraordinary life of luxury and privilege is not in dispute. The daughter of Sir John R. H. Bond, the former chairman of the global banking giant HSBC, Ms. Bond, 43, has traveled the world as a mountain climber and extreme athlete. (The lawsuit derisively calls her a ''self-described 'activist and adventurer.' '') Her family has homes in London, Hong Kong, Florida and Aspen, Colo.
Mr. Lichtenstein said that in order to help Ms. Bond conceal her actual economic condition and obtain inflated child support payments, Mr. Cader disguised as loans millions of dollars in cash gifts he had given her.
Mr. Cader also characterized the disbursements as loans to avoid paying gift tax in the United States, according to the complaint.
''The case was brought to prevent an injustice and reflects Warren's deep concern for the welfare of his child,'' said Stanley Arkin, the lawyer for Mr. Lichtenstein.
Mr. Cader and Ms. Bond did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Though Mr. Lichtenstein's lawsuit was filed in New York and raises questions about a Hong Kong court ruling, the origins of the case trace to Aspen, the ski-resort town and favorite second or third home for the Wall Street elite.
Mr. Lichtenstein, Mr. Cader and Ms. Bond all have homes in Aspen, which is where Ms. Bond met Mr. Lichtenstein, who has one child from a previous marriage. The two were once engaged but never married; their relationship ended amicably in 2007, just months before their daughter's birth.
''He is an amazing guy, but I think that sometimes it's better to have one happy parent than two unhappy ones,'' Ms. Bond told The Evening Standard newspaper in London at the time.
Mr. Lichtenstein, 47, made his fortune through his New York-based hedge fund, Steel Partners, which he started in 1992 and last year became a publicly traded company. Known in financial circles as combative and litigious, Mr. Lichtenstein buys large stakes in underperforming companies and agitates for change. Among his holdings are WebBank, a Utah-based financial company, and the industrial business Handy & Harman.
This is the second time this year that Mr. Lichtenstein, a native of Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, has appeared in the press because of his personal life. The gossip papers were recently filled with rumors that he was dating the reality television personality and entrepreneur Bethenny Frankel, who is in the middle of a messy public divorce. The two are old friends and not romantically involved, a person briefed on with the matter said.
Mr. Lichtenstein's courtroom adversary, Mr. Cader, 54, started his career as a floor broker on the New York Stock Exchange for Spear, Leeds & Kellogg. In 1997, he took over as co-chief executive of the firm and earned hundreds of millions of dollars when Goldman Sachs acquired Spear Leeds for about $6.5 billion in 2000.
(A skilled musician, Mr. Cader moonlighted as a percussionist while trading, and has a credit for playing rub-board on the 1985 Talking Heads album, ''Little Creatures.'')
He and several of his former Spear Leeds colleagues bought the Rays in 2004. Though some of them play an active role in the team's management, Mr. Cader has a small, passive stake. Mr. Cader, who has a child from a previous marriage, owns a jet, a Dassault Falcon 50, which he uses to travel among homes in Hong Kong, Aspen and Mount Kisco, N.Y. He, too, knows Ms. Bond from Aspen.
Around the time they met, Ms. Bond became locked in a legal dispute with Mr. Lichtenstein over the support of their daughter. The dispute took an ugly turn, according to the lawsuit, when Ms. Bond moved with their daughter to Hong Kong -- ''a jurisdiction that was half a world away,'' according to the complaint.
Mr. Lichtenstein says he then learned that Ms. Bond and their daughter had moved into a home in Hong Kong's upscale Strawberry Hill neighborhood. Mr. Cader was renting the home for $26,000 a month and structured it as a loan to Ms. Bond, she told Mr. Lichtenstein -- and more than $3.5 million in cash was also described as a loan, according to the complaint.
''These representations are false,'' the complaint says. ''The cash gifts and lease payments from Mr. Cader -- who on information and belief has a net worth of hundreds of millions of dollars -- were gifts to his longtime paramour, Ms. Bond.''
Mr. Lichtenstein argues that the Hong Kong court relied on Ms. Bond's lies in awarding her $41,800 a month in child support, plus school, tutoring, medical, travel and other substantial expenses. That amount, Mr. Lichtenstein claims, ''is one of the largest -- if not the largest -- child support ever issued by a Hong Kong court.''
He did not name Ms. Bond, a resident of Hong Kong, as a defendant, but took aim at her dating history. ''Ms. Bond has gone from one millionaire lover to another,'' the complaint says, ''spending millions of dollars of their money to support her lavish lifestyle, and has then moved on to her next wealthy lover or lovers to support her and finance her litigation efforts.''
According to her Web site, in 2005 Ms. Bond became the fastest woman and the fourth-fastest person ever to reach all ''seven summits,'' the highest peaks on each continent, having accomplished the feat in less than a year.
She has given talks at numerous Wall Street firms about her climbing exploits, including Morgan Stanley, Blackstone Group and Credit Suisse. On her Twitter feed on Thursday, she made no mention of the lawsuit, but posted a photo of herself at the top of Mount Everest.
''Nearly my summit of Everest anniversary,'' she wrote. ''My respects to the mother goddess.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Annabelle Bond, the mother at the heart of the suit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYN LENNON/GETTY IMAGES FOR LAUREUS) (B1)
Warren G. Lichtenstein, top, filed suit in federal court against Andrew Cader, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIM KYUNG-HOON/REUTERS
 DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); BONDS (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BASEBALL (76%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); RESORTS (67%); SKIING (66%); GIFT TAX (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) MOUNT EVEREST (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); HIMALAYAS (91%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



832 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Hammurabi's Code and U.S. Health Care

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: If society values doctors&#8217; treatment of the rich and the poor equally, it should look at equity in the fees they receive for different patients, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
Sometime around 1780-70 B.C., the Babylonian King Hammurabi promulgated the now famous Code of Hammurabi, covering both civil and criminal law. 
The code is said to have informed both Jewish and Islamic law. Remarkably, it has echoes also in modern health policy in the United States. 
Among the 282 laws in Hammurabi's Code, nine (215 to 223) pertain to medical practice: 
215. If a physician make a large incision with an operating knife and cure it, or if he open a tumor (over the eye) with an operating knife, and saves the eye, he shall receive 10 shekels in money.
216. If the patient be a freed man, he receives five shekels.
217. If he be the slave of someone, his owner shall give the physician two shekels.
218. If a physician make a large incision with the operating knife, and kill him, or open a tumor with the operating knife, and cut out the eye, his hands shall be cut off.
219. If a physician make a large incision in the slave of a freed man, and kill him, he shall replace the slave with another slave.
220. If he had opened a tumor with the operating knife, and put out his eye, he shall pay half his value.
221. If a physician heal the broken bone or diseased soft part of a man, the patient shall pay the physician five shekels in money.
222. If he were a freed man he shall pay three shekels.
223. If he were a slave his owner shall pay the physician two shekels.
Not all of these laws have survived the millennia. Relative to Hammurabi's draconian medical malpractice code, for example, modern medical malpractice penalties represent mere slaps on the wrist. 
On the other hand, our modern, differentiated payment system for health care does resemble the Code of Hammurabi in some respects.
To illustrate, for a primary care office visit with a new patient of 30-minute duration (using Current Procedural Terminology, or C.T.P. codes, in this case Code 99203), New Jersey's Medicaid in 2012 paid a nonspecialist $25 and a board-certified specialist $32.30. The comparable fees paid physicians for commercially insured patients are jealously guarded trade secrets, but it is reasonable to assume them to be $100 to $200. Other fees in the C.P.T. code are similarly low for Medicaid.
I recall addressing a group of New Jersey State legislators on this point a few years ago as follows:
I teach my students that the price a buyer is willing to pay for a thing signals to suppliers of that thing the monetary value the prospective buyer puts on it. It is a basic tenet of economics. Leaning on that tenet, I conclude that the value you in your role as state legislators put upon the professional work of, say, a pediatrician, if applied to a poor child on Medicaid, is less than a quarter of the value you put upon that same professional work it applied to your own commercially insured children.
Physicians clearly understand this relative valuation being signaled to them. According to a recent estimate, almost a third of American physicians are unwilling to accept any new patients covered by Medicaid. In New Jersey in 2011, only 40 percent of physicians accepted new Medicaid patients (see Exhibit 4). Given the insulting valuations many state Medicaid programs put upon the physicians' work, that's understandable. 
Naturally, New Jersey's legislators were not well pleased by my comment. To be fair, I doubt they had ever thought of their Medicaid budgets in that way. More probably, they tacitly assume that our health care system will give patients covered by Medicaid the same health care for a given medical condition that would be given a commercially insured patient, regardless how much legislators are willing to pay for that care. 
Perhaps these legislators believe that the Hippocratic Oath, sworn to by all physicians at the onset of their careers, compels that egalitarian approach. In fact, neither the ancient nor modern version of the oath imposes on healers an obligation to treat patients at a monetary loss.
Not all states value the work of physicians on Medicaid patients as lowly as does New Jersey and, for that matter, New York, even though both states rank near the top in the United States in terms of per-capita income. 
Nationwide, the fee paid physicians for an "office visit, new patient, 30 minutes" (C.P.T. Code 99203) in 2012 ranged from $29 to $165, with an average of $63.36. The minimum of $29 is probably a weighted average of the two fees for New Jersey cited earlier. There is a similarly wide range of Medicaid fees across the nation for other C.P.T. codes. 
We do not know whether King Hammurabi expected physicians to give patricians, plebeians (freed men) and slaves the same health care for a given medical problem, in spite of the glaring fee differentials articulated in the code. Chances are that Hammurabi would have expected differential treatment as well; he is said to have been a straight thinker.
Americans today have a more, shall we say, "nuanced" view of the matter. One the one hand, we signal to our health care professionals vastly different valuations of their work. On the other, we expect them to be punctiliously egalitarian on their job. 
Woe to physicians who give inferior care to Medicaid patients than they do to their commercially insured patients. And woe to any hospital if it even toyed with the idea of segregating Medicaid patients in separate wings of hospitals with fewer amenities and with, say, six patients to a room. Even the mildest hints at segregating Medicaid patients quickly bring outcries from the public and litigation.
In conclusion, I note that under the Affordable Care Act of 2010, the federal government is willing to pick up the added cost of raising physician fees paid by Medicaid for primary services to equality with the usually higher fees paid by Medicare for those services. That provision, if carried out, would more than double such fees in six states, including New York and New Jersey. 
Alas, for the states, the federal government will pick up the bill for this policy only during 2013 and 2014. It is anybody's guess, therefore, how many states will retain the more generous and to them costly payment policy after 2014. 

        
From Physician Glut to Physician Shortage
        
The Bad Economy Behind the Health Care Slowdown
        
Small Companies and the Affordable Care Act
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (72%); RELIGION (72%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (57%) Doctors; Hammurabi; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; New Jersey; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



833 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Crossing the Line

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times, plus a look at what&#8217;s happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
The White House said Thursday it believes the Syrian government has used chemical weapons on a small scale in its civil war but added that it needs more evidence before taking action as President Obama warned it would, Mark Landler and Eric Schmitt report. 
 

        
A bipartisan group of senators is quietly working to revive the gun debate, looking for lawmakers willing to change their votes and building a campaign to harness broad public support for a major overhaul, Jeremy W. Peters reports.

        
Lawmakers, counterterrorism officials and experts were divided Thursday over whether the nation's security apparatus had failed to prevent the bombings at the Boston Marathon after Russia warned the United States two years ago that one of the suspects was a radical Islamist, Scott Shane, Michael S. Schmidt and Eric Schmitt report.

        
Three former presidents joined the current one in honoring George W. Bush at the dedication of his presidential library in Texas on Thursday, putting aside arguments over the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to focus on the positives, Peter Baker reports.
Washington Happenings:

        
Mr. Obama will speak at the Planned Parenthood Gala in Washington on Friday before meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan in the afternoon. Later, he is scheduled to talk to business leaders who have significant interests in Mexico and Central America before his trip to Mexico and Costa Rica next week.

        
In the wake of the Boston Marathon bombings, a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee will hold a hearing on Islamist extremism in Chechnya at 10:30 a.m.

        
The Commerce Department will announce the first-quarter gross domestic product at 8:30 a.m.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TERRORISM (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (69%); LIBRARIES (53%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); JORDAN (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



834 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires Duke It Out Over Child Support

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The hedge fund manager Warren G. Lichtenstein is fighting with Andrew Cader, a former Goldman Sachs executive, over a British socialite&#8217;s child support claims. | George Soros disclosed a 7.9 percent stake in J.C. Penney, a retailer without many fans on Wall Street. | Two senators introducing a new banking bill can be thought of as punk rockers. | Though they&#8217;re now allowed to tweet, companies are being cautious. 

 BODY:
MILLIONAIRES DUKE IT OUT OVER CHILD SUPPORT | The financier Warren G. Lichtenstein, head of the hedge fund Steel Partners, is accustomed to courtroom battles. But this one has a different flavor. Mr. Lichtenstein, who has a 5-year-old child with his former lover Annabelle Bond, a British socialite, is accusing Ms. Bond's current boyfriend, Andrew Cader, a former Goldman Sachs executive and part-owner of the Tampa Bay Rays baseball team, of conspiring with her to hide her financial condition in order to secure more than $50,000 a month in child support payments, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports.
According to the lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, Ms. Bond deviously obtained the outsize child support from a Hong Kong court to "improve upon her already extraordinary life of luxury, privilege and modest fame." That Ms. Bond - an accomplished mountaineer who has climbed Mount Everest, and who is the daughter of Sir John R.H. Bond, the former chairman of the global banking giant HSBC - lives a life of privilege is not in dispute. But Mr. Lichtenstein claims that in order to help Ms. Bond hide her economic condition, Mr. Cader disguised as loans millions of dollars in cash gifts he had given her. 
"The case was brought to prevent an injustice and reflects Warren's deep concern for the welfare of his child," said Stanley Arkin, the lawyer for Mr. Lichtenstein. Mr. Cader and Ms. Bond did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
SOROS BUYS INTO J.C. PENNEY | 
J. C. Penney doesn't have many fans on Wall Street. But a big one emerged on Thursday: George Soros. Mr. Soros, the hedge fund billionaire, disclosed a 7.9 percent stake in Penney, with 17.4 million shares, according to a securities filing. The stake is passive, meaning Mr. Soros will not try to exert influence on the embattled retailer. Penney's shares rose nearly 7 percent in after-hours trading. The stock, which has taken a beating this year, ended regular trading up 5 cents at $15.24, before the stake was disclosed.
Mr. Soros, 82, is at least the second prominent hedge fund manager to take a shine to Penney, whose chief executive, Ron Johnson, was pushed out two weeks ago after 17 months on the job. William A. Ackman, the head of Pershing Square Capital Management, has a 17.8 percent stake. Penney's shares fell more than 50 percent during the tenure of Mr. Johnson, a former Apple executive Mr. Ackman supported.
It was not immediately clear what had prompted Mr. Soros's interest in the retailer. But if Myron E. Ullman III, the company's new chief executive, wants to visit two of his largest shareholders, he won't have far to travel. Mr. Soros and Mr. Ackman share an office building in New York.
SIMPLIFYING BANK REGULATION | You can think of Senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, who introduced a new piece of bank legislation on Wednesday, as "punk rockers reacting against the sophisticated progressive rock scene in the 1970s," DealBook's Peter Eavis explains. "Sick of an ornate status quo, they have come out swinging with an uncluttered approach that many will find invigorating."
The bill, intended to toughen and simplify the overhaul of the financial system, does not stipulate a maximum size for banks. And it takes no big steps to force Wall Street out of the Federal Reserve's safety net. "Even so, the bill will of course face enormous resistance, and not just from the bank lobbyists who seem reflexively to oppose any measure to overhaul their industry," Mr. Eavis writes. "There are analysts who want to do more to rein in the banks, but who think the senators are naïve, or intellectually lacking, to think that today's complex financial system can be made safer with their seemingly simple fixes. They have a point."
ON THE AGENDA | 
An estimate of gross domestic product in the first quarter is out at 8:30 a.m. Burger King and Chevron report earnings before the market opens. Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive of Evercore Partners, is on CNBC starting at 7 a.m. Kenneth G. Langone, the Home Depot co-founder, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m.
FEEDING TWITTER, SLOWLY | Now that the Securities and Exchange Commission has clarified rules on disclosures over social media, some companies are encouraging investors to check out their Facebook and Twitter pages. Still, "uncertainty over what exactly the commission will allow has meant that many companies, and their legal teams, are playing it safe this earnings season," Michelle Leder and Michael J. de la Merced write in DealBook. "Right now it's like the Wild West," said Broc Romanek, editor of TheCorporateCounsel.net, a Web site that focuses on S.E.C. rules and regulations. "The S.E.C.'s guidance is definitely going to need to be further refined."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
A.D.M. in $3.1 Billion Australian Takeover | After its third attempt, Archer Daniels Midland on Friday finally won the support of the board of Australia's GrainCorp with a sweetened buyout bid that includes cash and an additional dividend payout.
DealBook »
A $30 Billion Disagreement Over Verizon Wireless | Any transaction between Verizon Communications and the Vodafone Group would have to resolve the question of how much Verizon Wireless is worth. "The Verizon camp starts at a valuation around $100 billion; for Vodafone, the stake is worth about $130 billion, people familiar with the matter said," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Facebook Said to Buy Mobile Start-Up for $85 Million | Facebook has agreed to a cash-and-stock deal for Parse, which "helps companies build mobile applications across different operating systems," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Yahoo Chairman to Step Down | Alfred J. Amoroso, the chairman of Yahoo, plans to leave the board on June 25 at the company's annual meeting, becoming the eighth director to leave since early last year.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Yahoo C.E.O. Joins Board of Jawbone | Marissa Mayer has officially joined the board of the wireless gadget maker Jawbone, AllThingsD reports.
ALLTHINGSD
INVESTMENT BANKING »
A New Chapter in Tourre's Fight With the S.E.C. | Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs employee who has settled into academic life since being sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, has an important day on Friday, when "U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest is due to hear arguments on several motions that could alter the course of the three-year proceeding," The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Market Delay in Chicago Points Again to Technology | The Chicago Board Options Exchange opened after a delay of several hours Thursday because of a system failure.
DealBook »
Chief of Unit Overseeing Britain's Bailout Investments Resigns | Jim O'Neil, who as chief of United Kingdom Financial Investments has been in charge of the British government's stakes in two bailed-out banks, will rejoin Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
DealBook »
Sallie Mae Cancels Bond Deal Amid Weak Demand | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Boutique Vintners Turn to Private Equity for Help | Bacchus Capital Management, co-founded by Sam Bronfman II, is providing financing and expertise to small winemakers.
DealBook »
K.K.R. Earnings Beat Expectations as Fee Profits Rise | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts posted after-tax economic net income of $647.7 million for the first quarter, surpassing analysts' expectations, amid a relatively strong environment for the private equity industry.
DealBook »
In Sale of Carestream Health, 2 Bidders Remain | 
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Prague Looks to Attract Hedge Funds in Need of a New Home | Bloomberg News reports: "Prague is joining Frankfurt and London in a race to attract fund managers seeking European Union offices in an industry dominated by Luxembourg."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Veteran of Viking Global Prepares to Start New Fund | 
ABSOLUTE RETURN
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Brazil Insurer Prices Biggest I.P.O. of the Year | BB Seguridade, the biggest insurance company in Latin America, raised $5.74 billion late Thursday in the largest initial public offering in the world so far this year.
DealBook »
Private Equity Firms Sell Stake in Ziggo for $1.1 Billion | Cinven and Warburg Pincus are selling their remaining stakes in the Dutch cable company Ziggo for up to a combined 880 million euros, or $1.1 billion.
DealBook »
Why Alibaba Could Be China's Next $100 Billion I.P.O. | John Foley of Reuters Breakingviews does a back-of-the-envelope exercise in valuing the Hangzhou-based e-commerce giant should it seek to go public. 
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Path, Social Networking App, Grows in Popularity | The company, run by Dave Morin, is adding a million registered users a week since introducing its most version, The Wall Street Journal says.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
New York Seeks to Press Trial of A.I.G.'s Ex-Chief | The New York attorney general's office is taking an unusual step to try to help expedite a trial of the American International Group's former chief, Maurice R. Greenberg.
DealBook »
Harvard Economists Respond to Critics | Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff write in an essay in The New York Times: "The politically charged discussion, especially sharp in the past week or so, has falsely equated our finding of a negative association between debt and growth with an unambiguous call for austerity."
NEW YORK TIMES
Banks Urged to Put Limits on Payday-Style Loans | Federal regulators urged some of the nation's largest banks to restrict payday-style loans tied to customers' checking accounts.
DealBook »
Fed Insists on Greater Restrictions on Foreign Banks in U.S. | "Despite a lot of talk about the need for international cooperation in regulation, it now appears that American regulators intend to ensure that foreign banks operating in the United States have adequate capitalization," Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times, writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Google's Rivals Are Asked to Review Proposed Antitrust Settlement | The New York Times reports: "European Union regulators took another step on Thursday toward reaching an antitrust settlement with Google, asking the company's competitors to review changes proposed by Google to resolve concerns with its Internet search and advertising business."
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (90%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BASEBALL (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); POP & ROCK (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BANKING LAW (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (89%); MYRON E ULLMAN (51%); RON JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (76%); HIMALAYAS (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



835 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Why the Rent Is So High in New York

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A city where housing is no bargain even for the wealthy, because of increasing demand (some of it from the global super-rich), constrained supply and lots of perks that come from living in the area. 

 BODY:
In a magazine piece this week (and accompanying blog post), I talked about why many of the goods and services that high-income people consume are cheaper in New York - because it has such a large concentration of high-income people. I also mentioned that the big, glaring exception to this is housing, which is expensive for rich people as well as poor people.
So why is housing so expensive here, and getting even more so? 
There are a few reasons. One is that New York has become a much more attractive place to live and work over the last few decades as crime has fallen and other amenities have improved. So demand for apartments here is up - and not just among people who live here full time.
"Manhattan and increasingly parts of Brooklyn are part of the global real estate market, attracting part-time people," said Richard Florida, director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management. "It's similar to London in that way, where it's not necessarily Londoners and New Yorkers buying and rent apartments. These are the two places where the global super-rich want to be." 
Joseph Gyourko, an economics professor at Wharton, adds that one incentive for the global super-rich to buy in New York, besides the proximity to world-class restaurants and entertainment, is that it may be a safe investment. "They may be buying to park money in a jurisdiction where they're pretty sure it wouldn't be expropriated," he said. "If I were a Middle Eastern billionaire, you can bet I'd be parking a lot of money in New York."
I asked N.Y.U.'s Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy to look into whether the share of homes in New York that are not primary residences has risen in the last few years. It has:
In New York City over all, about 8.8 of every 1,000 housing units (or 0.88 percent) were for seasonal/recreational/occasional use in 2000, versus 18.8 out of 1,000 homes (1.88 percent) in 2011, the most recent year for which data are available. In Manhattan alone, the share of part-time units has nearly doubled over that same time, from 24.4 out of 1,000 (2.44 percent) in 2000 up to 48.1 out of 1,000 (4.81 percent) in 2011.
Those numbers may affect the high end of the sales market, which could potentially trickle down to everyone else, but the effect seems as if it should be relatively small given how small a share of housing is directly affected.
A second key reason that housing has become so expensive is that as demand for housing from both these occasional visitors and full-time residents has grown, supply has not kept up.
Housing in New York is tightly constrained, because of limited land to build upon plus lots of regulatory, building and zoning restrictions. Construction costs are very high. And the existing supply of housing is pretty inflexible, too. Right now, nearly half of the rental housing stock in New York City over all (as well as in Manhattan specifically) is rent-regulated, meaning the apartments are either rent-controlled or rent-stabilized. Another 17 percent of the rental housing stock across the city is public or subsidized (20 percent in Manhattan specifically).
A third key reason housing is so expensive, related to the first one I mentioned, is that a lot of amenities that wealthy people like are bundled into the price of an apartment in New York, including a high concentration of bars, restaurants and theaters, and a greater variety of high-end goods. Living in New York gives you access to a lot of perks that you would not have in lower-income places like Detroit, no matter how much you were willing to pay, and you're paying for the cost of the entire bundle. For high-income people, who value these kinds of amenities, the cost is a bargain. The problem is that low-income people, for whom these perks are less important to the quality of life, cannot unbundle the cost of having a roof over their heads from the cost of being in close proximity to 66 Michelin-starred restaurants and the Metropolitan Opera.
New York offers higher salaries than most other cities, too, for both high-skilled and low-skilled people, which is another reason that housing costs are higher. High salaries and high housing costs are sort of mutually reinforcing: for high-skilled people, access to lucrative jobs nearby is baked into the cost of an apartment, and for low-skilled people, who are pinched by the higher cost of housing (and everything else they spend money on), better wages are required to convince them it's worth staying and working here.
Given the better pay in New York, housing costs are actually less onerous than they might seem. The Furman Center crunched the numbers for rent burdens, or the share of household income that goes to paying the landlord. It's about the same in New York as it is in the next four largest American cities.
Likewise, the share of households that are moderately rent-burdened (meaning more than 30 percent of household incomes goes to rent) and severely rent-burdened (more than 50 percent to rent) is comparable with other cities.
All that said, there are still some New Yorkers who feel strongly that rents are unreasonably high:

        
In New York City, Cheaper (and Later) Pedicures
        
Housing Trends, Short and Long Term
        
Staying Ahead of the Tax Man
        
A Place That Makes New York Real Estate Look Cheap
        
Housing Prices and Income Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RENT CONTROL (76%); CRIME RATES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); HOUSING STARTS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Income; New York City; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Rent Control and Stabilization; Renting and Leasing (Real Estate); Wages and Salaries

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



836 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Google Search Terms Can Predict Stock Market, Study Finds

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: A new study found that by tracking certain search terms in Google Trends, researchers could predict whether the Dow Jones industrial average would rise or fall the following week. 

 BODY:
The terms people search for on Google have been used to forecast how many Americans have the flu, travel plans and the price for which cars sell. Now a scientific study shows that Google search can be used to predict the stock market. 
Using Google Trends, a service that shows the popularity of search terms, researchers from Warwick Business School in England and Boston University's department of physics found that the type of terms people search Google for on a given week can predict whether the Dow Jones industrial average will rise or fall the following week.
The study, titled "Quantifying Trading Behavior in Financial Markets Using Google Trends," was published Thursday in Nature's Scientific Reports.
The researchers tracked 98 search terms from Google Trends between 2004 and 2011. These included investment-related words, like debt, stocks, portfolio, unemployment and markets, and non-investment terms, including lifestyle, arts, happy, war, conflict and politics.
One of the leading search terms used to predict the markets was the word "debt" - an increase in such searches heralded a sell-off of stocks. A decrease in searches found the market rose slightly the following week.
But the results do not take into account volatile markets where a big sell-off can force investors to abandon ship sooner than they anticipated.
And sometimes Google Trends can give scientists inaccurate information when the proper context is not applied. For example, earlier this year Google Flu Trends said it believed that nearly 11 percent of the United States population had influenza. Yet the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention put the coughing and sniffling peak at 6 percent of the population. It turns out Google didn't anticipate how outside influences, like media coverage of the flu and the rise in discussions on social media, would affect its data and statistics.
In 2010, researchers at Indiana University-Bloomington performed a similar study and found that people's emotions on Twitter could help predict the stock market.

        
Google Adds Posts From Its Social Network to Search Results
        
A Call to Rethink Internet Search
        
A Search Engine Made for Mobile Devices
        
Study Finds Weakness in Google's Android Security Service
        
Daily Report: Google Fills in the Blank, and a German Cries Foul

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (90%); INFLUENZA (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%) Google+; Search; stock market; Dow Jones Stock Average; Research; Stocks and Bonds; Google Inc; Scientific Reports (Journal); Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Data

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; Scientific Reports (Journal)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2013



837 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: What It Takes to Create a Start-Up Community

BYLINE: EILENE ZIMMERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Do you think it&#8217;s possible to create start-up communities deliberately? Or do they have to happen organically? 

 BODY:
Entrepreneurs exist everywhere, but start-up communities don't. Some rise up organically and others are created deliberately - or at least people try to create them deliberately. Many hope to create the next Silicon Valley.
Brad Feld, who is known for helping to turn Boulder, Colo., into a robust start-up hub, which he wrote about in his book, "Startup Communities," said entrepreneurs lead a community's creation and everyone else feeds it. Those feeders include government, universities, mentors, investors, service providers and large companies. Start-up communities also need a steady supply of talent - engineers, yes, but designers, scientists, sales and marketing experts, management consultants and investors, too. Another essential is density - lots of people sharing ideas and collaborating - and lots of places for entrepreneurs to network and share ideas. 
One recent example of a burgeoning community is a segment of Los Angeles that is becoming known as Silicon Beach. With a steady supply of engineering, business and creative talent from Hollywood studios and major universities like U.C.L.A. and U.S.C., plus lots of meet-ups, co-working spaces and start-up events, Silicon Beach - which includes the beach communities of Santa Monica and Venice, as well as downtown L.A. and Hollywood - has become a haven for start-ups that blend technology and media, especially gaming companies. 
Richard Florida, co-founder of the Atlantic Cities blog, and an urban studies professor at the University of Toronto and New York University, said Silicon Beach is part of an interesting evolution happening in entrepreneurial activity - it's moving from the suburbs to the cities. "During the Industrial Age, a lot of activity moved to the edge of cities and to the suburbs," he said. "And we believed then cities had been supplanted. High tech was happening in suburban areas of Silicon Valley, and outside of Boston, Seattle, in the Austin suburbs, in Research Triangle. But in the past several years we've seen an incredible, accelerating shift in start-up activity back to urban centers."
Population density, he said, allows for the serendipitous encounters that inspire creativity, innovation and collaboration. "Entrepreneurs are competitive," Mr. Florida said. "But they are also looking for people to partner with, people they resonate with." Boulder is an unusual example of density. The city has only about 100,000 people, but Mr. Feld has hypothesized it may have more entrepreneurs per capita than any other community in the country. "The number of people working for start-ups is off the charts," he wrote in a 2011 blog post.
According to Mr. Feld's site, Startup Revolution, Boulder has 191 start-ups today, six accelerators, three incubators, 35 investors (including angels, seed investors, venture capitalists and corporations), five meet-up groups and a host of events like Ignite Boulder, Startup Weekend and TEDx Boulder. The area has attracted lots of engineers as well as sales, marketing, management and finance professionals.
Mr. Feld told DealBook in December that the city's start-up community has grown because Boulder is a place where people wanted to live, so they built a life around it. But can you create a start-up community in a place like Detroit or even Las Vegas? Both cities lack density, but they do have evangelists - someone with a vision.
Detroit has Dan Gilbert, founder of Quicken Loans. In Detroit today, the median house price is less than $60,000, household income is around $25,000 and the number of people living in poverty is more than three times the national average. Talent is leaving in greater numbers than it's arriving - which runs completely counter to what a start-up community needs. But as you can read in this recent Times story, Mr. Gilbert has already spent $1 billion to try to change all of that.
Meanwhile, Tony Hsieh, the founder of Zappos, is investing $350 million to revitalize Las Vegas, with $50 million going to tech start-ups through the VegasTech Fund. (The Times Magazine wrote about Mr. Hsieh's efforts in 2012.) Drawing start-ups to economically challenged cities like Detroit and Las Vegas is hard enough but once there, those start-ups still face the usual challenges - finding investors, hiring talent and connecting with their communities.
Those connections are essential, said Scott Case, chief executive of Startup America Partnership, a private-sector initiative that aims to encourage the development of high-growth start-ups. Mr. Case said that is one thing his organization is focused on, recruiting and making its members visible. And that's why the presence of accelerators and incubators, as well as events like meet-ups and pitch fests, are vital for a community's growth.
Over the next several months this blog will take a closer look at a variety of start-up communities nationwide - those that are established and that that are emerging, or perhaps even struggling - in an effort to learn more about what makes these places work.
Do you think it's possible to create start-up communities deliberately? Or do they have to happen organically? And which communities would you suggest we look at?
 You can follow Eilene Zimmerman on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Apple, Gold and Cupcakes
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Lunch?
        
Torn Between Two Start-Up Communities
        
This Week in Small Business: Not Again!
        
A Start-Up Fund That Lets College Students Make the Decisions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); CITY LIFE (88%); SUBURBS (86%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); VENTURE CAPITAL (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); OFFICE DESIGN (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); GAMING (64%) Boulder (Colo); Detroit (Mich); Entrepreneurship; Feld, Brad; Florida, Richard; Las Vegas (Nev); Los Angeles (Calif); Silicon Valley (Calif); Small Business; Start-ups; Startup America Partnership; Start

ORGANIZATION: Startup America Partnership

PERSON: Feld, Brad; Florida, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boulder (Colo); Detroit (Mich); Las Vegas (Nev); Los Angeles (Calif); Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



838 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Should Smaller Banks Really Have Less Capital Protection?

BYLINE: RICHARD E. FARLEY


HIGHLIGHT: A new proposal by Senators Brown and Vitter is an unprecedented attempt to unfairly advantage smaller &#8220;regional banks&#8221; and disadvantage bigger &#8220;megabanks,&#8221; the author writes. 

 BODY:
 Richard E. Farley is a partner in the leveraged finance group of the law firm of Paul Hastings. He is writing a book titled "The Crisis Not Wasted - The Creation of Modern Financial Regulation During F.D.R.'s First Five Hundred Days." 
Since the financial crisis in 2008, lawmakers have been promising an end to the "too big to fail" system of large banks. The latest move comes from Senators Sherrod Brown and David Vitter, whose proposal has the politically tinged title Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness Act. 
But nowhere in the proposal, however, is there a single comma that would end "too big to fail." What the two senators are offering is an unprecedented attempt to unfairly advantage smaller "regional banks" and disadvantage bigger "megabanks." 
The pretext underlyingthe Brown-Vitter proposal is that smaller regional banks are less risky than the large institutions. Historically, however, just the opposite has been true. It was the smaller banks that failed in huge numbers during the Great Depression. And despite the urban legend of ruined Wall Street bankers jumping from windows, the New York banks had much more diversified loan and investment portfolios than the more rural, farm-loan-heavy smaller community banks and, frankly, the New York banks were more professionally managed.
During the savings and loan crisis of the late 1980s and early 1990s, it was again small banks - unchecked by national regulators - that caused the morass. The latest Brown-Vitter bill may again put us squarely in the same situation.
In many ways, the history of bank regulation in the United States has been a competition between the interests of the regional banks and those of large banks. The Glass-Steagall Act nearly failed in 1933 because big banks did not want to subsidize riskier small banks in a deposit insurance program. Senator Carter Glass, Democrat of Virginia, was ready to scuttle it because he thought insuring small banks might bankrupt the system. A compromise was reached allowing national banks to open branches everywhere that state banks could.
The crux of the proposed bill would require big banks to maintain a minimum common equity capital ratio of 15 percent of total assets, while only requiring 8 percent for regional banks. It would also exempt regional banks from all of the capital requirements of Basel III, the new regime of bank capital standards developed by banking regulators worldwide.
While the bill would also exempt big banks from Basel III, this would be of little significance as nearly all of the megabanks will voluntarily comply with the rules to maintain credibility within the international financial community.
The senators' news release trotted out support from the usual "too big to fail" critics. But inexplicably, in their own release, Sheila C. Bair, a former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and inexhaustible critic of big banks, did not support this aspect of the bill. She is quoted as saying that Basel III "was meant as a floor, not a ceiling, and proposals to strengthen bank capital requirements should build on that accord."
The senators, however, dismiss Basel III as "too complex" - a system that would require a large bank "to conduct more than 200 million calculations in order to determine their regulatory capital under the Basel II framework, which Basel III builds upon."
We learned in 2008 and again recently in the Cyprus collapse that world financial markets are deeply interconnected. While Basel III is far from perfect and will unquestionably need to be modified and updated over time and with experience, it is our best hope for a desperately needed uniformity of capital regulation standards. It would be foolhardy to scrap this. 
Mr. Vitter and Mr. Brown acknowledge that their bill would set the capital bar for regional banks even lower than current market practices, including by lowering leverage capital ratios to 8 percent from 10 percent of assets. Yet this would increase, rather than decrease, the risk of bank failures.
The bill also contains a number of other benefits for community banks. It would expand the definition of "rural" lenders that could offer balloon mortgages; reduce some impediments for small banks and thrifts to raise capital or pay dividends; create an independent bank examiner ombudsman that institutions could appeal to if they felt they had been treated unfairly by their examiner; and adopt privacy notice simplification legislation.
There are certainly policy considerations that might justify favoring smaller banks over larger ones. Historically, these have included keeping capital in local hands, favoring agrarian lending to industrial lending and avoiding concentration of power in urban elites. 
Prohibition against branch banking by national banks for most of American history is an example of a law in furtherance of these policies. Those laws have for the most part been scrapped because they fostered inefficient uses of capital and, in many cases, bad management. But at least they were honest about what they were trying to do. 
Senator Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Senator Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, have promoted the bipartisan nature of their proposal. But in the end, the bill attempts to mask favoritism of regional banks over larger banks in "no more bailouts" rhetoric, when nothing in the proposal would prevent the future bailout of a single bank. The only thing this effort may accomplish is creating an uptick in contributions to the senators' re-election campaigns from regional banking interests.

        
The Seductive Simplicity of a New Banking Bill
        
2 Senators Call for Greater Bank Capital Requirements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); WRITERS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); COMMUNITY BANKS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (71%); POLITICS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (66%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Brown, Sherrod; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States Politics and Government; Vitter, David; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (90%); SHERROD BROWN (90%); SHEILA BAIR (56%) Brown, Sherrod; Vitter, David

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



839 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: The Seductive Simplicity of a New Banking Bill

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, not only want to toughen the overhaul of the financial system, but also simplify it. 

 BODY:
We all want to live in a world where we can stop worrying about the banks. Would a tough new piece of legislation, introduced in the Senate on Wednesday, get us there?
Senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, have two aims in writing their bank bill. They say they not only want to toughen the overhaul of the financial system, but also to simplify it. 
Think of the senators as punk rockers reacting against the sophisticated progressive-rock scene of the 1970s. Sick of an ornate status quo, they have come out swinging with an uncluttered approach that many will find invigorating. 
Before looking at what the bill would do, it's interesting to note what it wouldn't. The legislation doesn't stipulate a maximum size for banks. And, strangely, it takes no big steps to force Wall Street operations out of the safety net that the Federal Reserve provides to banks in times of crisis. 
Even so, the bill will of course face enormous resistance, and not just from the bank lobbyists who seem reflexively to oppose any measure to overhaul their industry. There are analysts who want to do more to rein in the banks, but who think the senators are naïve, or intellectually lacking, to think that today's complex financial system can be made safer with their seemingly simple fixes. 
They have a point. 
The financial system will be safer than it was once the two big postcrisis overhauls are in place. Those are the Dodd-Frank legislation, passed by Congress in 2010, and the internationally agreed-upon banking rules known as Basel III. 
These two efforts don't set out to radically remake banks. They opt for a technocratic, pragmatic approach. Both take steps to make lenders more resilient to losses, and they introduce incentives to make riskier activities less attractive for banks. In an indirect way, they also try to keep banks from getting much bigger than they are today. 
There's one other important element to Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act: they assume regulators are up to the task of monitoring big banks. That trust has been undermined by recent events. Regulators didn't grasp the full danger of the gargantuan derivatives trades at JPMorgan Chase that led to big losses last year. Some analysts are questioning whether the Basel III figures put out by European banks reflect the true riskiness of their assets. And, of course, regulators did little to gird the banks ahead of the American housing bust or the European sovereign debt debacle.
And in a major way, the Brown-Vitter bill effectively sidesteps the need for reliable regulators. It simply says that all big banks would have to set up a buffer for potential losses - called capital in the industry - that is equivalent to 15 percent of their total assets. 
Take TBTF Finance Corporation, a hypothetical bank that holds $300 billion of mortgages and $300 billion of government bonds. It would have to set aside 15 percent of $600 billion, or $90 billion, as capital under the proposed rule. 
Basel III and Dodd-Frank also require certain levels of capital. But their capital calculations are heavily influenced by a practice called risk weighting. This says banks can hold less capital against assets that are perceived to have less chance of showing future losses. 
At TBTF Finance, the Basel risk weightings might allow the bank to hold no capital against government bonds, and they might ask for 4 percent, or $12 billion, against the mortgages. 
Basel III wouldn't allow TBTF Finance to get away with just holding 4 percent capital. It could demand as much as 9.5 percent. But that 9.5 percent would be calculated on TBTF Finance's total risk-weighted assets of $300 billion. That would mean the bank would have to hold $28.5 billion of capital, far less than the $90 billion under Brown-Vitter. 
Clearly, under Basel, the banks have an incentive to get their risk-weighted assets down. 
A lender with many different types of assets and a big trading operation will be doing thousands of risk-weighting calculations when setting its capital, some of which will involve complex computer models. Critics ask, How can regulators stay on top of everything? In addition, skeptics say that assuming some assets are less risky than others will end in tears, since it's almost impossible to tell ahead of time where big losses will occur. 
The Brown-Vitter bill sweeps all that aside. It would get rid of Basel III, and by insisting on 15 percent capital against all types of assets, it avoids stipulating which bank holdings are riskier than others.
But Brown-Vitter may have its own shortcomings. Granted, risk weightings may never accurately reflect what's going on in the real world, but the newest proposal may fall into the same trap. 
It treats all assets the same, an approach that may prove even more disconnected from reality. It is possible that the United States Treasury could default one day, which would make United States government bonds as risky as mortgages, but is it really right to build that unlikely occurrence into capital rules?
In fact, assuming all assets are equally risky could create perverse incentives, says Mayra Rodríguez Valladares, managing principal at MRV Associates, a firm that consults on Basel issues. Freed from risk weights, banks may be more inclined to make certain types of loans that have historically experienced big losses, like home equity mortgages. "Banks might invest more in high-yielding, high-risk assets," said Ms. Rodríguez Valladares. "It's totally inaccurate to lump everything into one category."
Also, Basel III may end up being significantly stronger than its critics say. For instance, the world's largest banks will be subject to a special surcharge. Ms. Rodríguez Valladares says there are discussions about whether to calculate this extra capital on total assets, not risk-weighted assets. Go back to TBTF Finance with its $28.5 billion of capital. Adding 2 percent of its total assets, or $12 billion, would take capital up to $40.5 billion. 
That's still less than half of what Brown-Vitter would require. Of course, it may be more closely matched to the risk of TBTF Finance's assets. But if the risk weights are faulty, and TBTF Finance racks up crippling losses, the lender may burn through all its capital and fail. That could paralyze the financial system, weaken the wider economy and even prompt the government to bail it out. 
The beauty of Brown-Vitter is that all that extra capital makes that awful outcome much less likely. 

        
Should Smaller Banks Really Have Less Capital Protection?
        
In Brown-Vitter Bill, a Banking Overhaul With Possible Teeth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Brown, Sherrod; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Vitter, David; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; News Analysis

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (90%); DAVID VITTER (90%) Brown, Sherrod; Vitter, David

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



840 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Lazard's Profit Falls 17% in First Quarter

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The investment bank said that its adjusted profit slid 17 percent from the same time a year ago, to $37 million, as fewer of its advisory assignments closed during the period. 

 BODY:
The fickleness of the mergers market can take its toll on deal makers, as Lazard reported on Friday.
The investment bank said that its adjusted profit for the first quarter slid 17 percent from the same time a year ago, to $37 million, as fewer of its advisory assignments closed during the period. Total revenue fell 17 percent as well, to $422.1 million. 
Lazard's profit amounts to 28 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate of 32 cents a share, according to Standard & Poor's Capital IQ.
Using generally accepted accounting principles, the firm's net income fell 40 percent, to $15 million.
Operating revenue for the bank's core strategic advisory arm fell 39 percent, to $168 million. Unusually, both of Lazard's main advisory businesses - deals and restructurings - were down. The two are meant to be counters to each other, one waxing as the other wanes, as the economy does.
Some of the firm's rivals, like Evercore Partners and Greenhill & Company, reported strong growth in their main advisory businesses. But Lazard executives simply attributed the weak earnings to the lumpy nature of the deals business, where quarters of plenty can be followed by months of paucity. 
"It was a soft quarter, reflective of the choppiness of the M.&A. market," Kenneth Jacobs, the chief executive of the firm, said in a telephone interview. 
Mr. Jacobs added that some of the first quarter's problems may arise from a number of deal closings being moved up to the previous quarter, to avoid potential changes in the tax code. The fourth quarter proved strong for Lazard, whose earnings per share in the period were nearly double analyst estimates.
But he argued that the conditions for an improved deal market were present. The economic outlook in both the United States and many emerging markets continues to look positive over all, and Europe appears to have stabilized for the moment.
Moreover, the firm announced a number of high-profile mandates in the quarter, including Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital's $23 billion deal for H. J. Heinz and the $9.8 billion sale of D.E. Master Blenders 1753, the former European coffee arm of Sara Lee.
"I think we're just in one of those choppy periods," Mr. Jacobs said. "The market's generally better than it's been."
One bright spot was asset management, whose operating revenues rose 14 percent to $240 million. The business reported a rise in both assets under management and fees, largely owing to growing markets improving the value of the firm's holdings.
Expenses tied to compensation fell slightly in the period, to 60 percent from 62.7 percent a year ago, though Mr. Jacobs cautioned against reading too much into any one quarter. Adjusted noncompensation costs fell 5 percent, to $100 million. Both have been a focus of investors like Nelson Peltz, who have urged greater discipline.
The firm booked a $26 million charge tied to cost-saving measures that it had already announced. The campaign is expected to be completed by the end of this quarter, with its full effects becoming apparent next year.

        
Lazard's Profit Surges as Deal Assignments Pick Up
        
How Herbalife Was Drawn Into KPMG Insider Trading Inquiry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MERGERS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ACCOUNTING (55%); TAX LAW (50%) Company Reports; Jacobs, Kenneth M; Lazard LLC; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: D.E MASTER BLENDERS 1753 NV (81%); GREENHILL & CO INC (69%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (55%); H J HEINZ CO (52%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Lazard LLC

TICKER: DE (AMS) (81%); GHL (NYSE) (69%); EVR (NYSE) (55%); HNZ (NYSE) (52%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (52%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (52%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (52%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: Jacobs, Kenneth M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



841 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING | COMPANIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Slipping Oil Prices Weigh On Chevron's Bottom Line

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Chevron reported on Friday that its net income fell 4.5 percent in the first quarter, pushed lower by falling oil prices and a decline in refinery output. Chevron, the second-largest United States oil company after Exxon Mobil, has delivered better profit margins than the other energy majors in recent years because a big part of its production mix is oil, which has been costly. But crude oil prices fell across the globe in the first three months of this year as Europe remained stuck in recession and growth in China slowed. That reduced Chevron's revenue and profit. Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., said on Friday that its net income fell to $6.2 billion, or $3.18 a share, on revenue of $56.8 billion. Last year in the same quarter the company earned $6.47 billion, or $3.27 a share, on revenue of $60.7 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) CHINA (68%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



842 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Morose Middle Class

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
The Middle Class is in a funk, its view of the future growing dim as fear rolls in like a storm.
An Allstate/National Journal Heartland Monitor poll released Thursday found that while most Americans (56 percent) hold out hope that they'll be in a higher class at some point, even more Americans (59 percent) are worried about falling out of their current class over the next few years. In fact, more than eight in 10 Americans believe that more people have fallen out of the middle class than moved into it in the past few years.
The poll paints a picture of a group that is scared to death about its station in life. 
By the way, 58 percent of respondents in the poll viewed themselves as either middle class (46 percent) or upper middle class (12 percent).
According to the poll, Americans see a middle class with less opportunity to get ahead, less job security and less disposable income than the middle class of previous generations.
Respondents were most likely (52 percent) to say that losing a job would put them at the greatest risk of falling out of their current class, followed by an unexpected illness or injury in the family.
Most of those polled believe that higher education is the key to staying in the middle class, but many worry about its prohibitive cost and inaccessibility.
And who did most of them say is responsible for making it worse for the middle class? Congress, chief executives of major corporations and big financial institutions.
Of those who blame politicians, there is some evidence that Republicans get more of the blame than Democrats. A CNN/ORC poll released last month found that 32 percent of respondents thought that Democrats favor the middle class compared with 27 percent who believed the same of Republicans. Sixty-eight percent of those polled believed that Republicans favor the wealthy, compared with 24 percent who believed that Democrats do.
This anxiety about a shrinking middle class is understandable.
A Pew Research Center study, ''The Lost Decade of the Middle Class,'' released in August, found that ''since 2000, the middle class has shrunk in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some -- but by no means all -- of its characteristic faith in the future.''
According to the report, ''Fully 85 percent of self-described middle-class adults say it is more difficult now than it was a decade ago for middle-class people to maintain their standard of living.''
The report continued:
''Their downbeat take on their economic situation comes at the end of a decade in which, for the first time since the end of World War II, mean family incomes declined for Americans in all income tiers. But the middle-income tier -- defined in this Pew Research analysis as all adults whose annual household income is two-thirds to double the national median -- is the only one that also shrunk in size, a trend that has continued over the past four decades.''
It's important to note that many of the people who describe themselves as middle class would not be placed under that rubric by most objective observers. For instance, the Pew study found that 35 percent of people making $30,000 and under and 46 percent of those making $100,000 and over self-identified as middle class. (Meantime, six percent of those making $30,000 and under self-identified as upper class, and six percent of those making $100,000 and over self-identified as lower class. Go figure.)
As Pew pointed out, over the last decade, ''middle-tier median household income'' fell and median net worth plummeted, and people in the middle class said it was becoming harder to maintain their lifestyles.
To add insult to injury, another Pew report, released this week, found that ''during the first two years of the nation's economic recovery, the mean net worth of households in the upper 7 percent of the wealth distribution rose by an estimated 28 percent, while the mean net worth of households in the lower 93 percent dropped by 4 percent.''
As The Washington Post reported in September after the release of a frightening Census report: ''The vise on the middle class tightened last year, driving down its share of the income pie as the number of Americans in poverty leveled off and the most affluent households saw their portion grow.''
The wealthy have come surging back, riding record stock market highs, but many in the middle class are at best treading water and at worst sinking.
In his State of the Union speech in February, President Obama said that the ''true engine of America's economic growth'' is ''a rising, thriving middle class.''
It certainly looks as if that engine has stalled.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Falling Out (Source: Allstate/National Journal poll) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (58%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



843 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: In Trek North, First Lure Is Mexico's Other Line

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
CIUDAD HIDALGO, Mexico -- With her leg snapped and folded excruciatingly over her shoulder, Elvira López Hernández lay flat on a railroad bed as the freight train hurtled above her, clinging tightly to two things: the railroad ties beneath her and the memory of the 4-year-old daughter she had left behind in Guatemala.
''I said: 'My God, I don't want to die! My daughter!' ''
She slipped off the train in January, one of scores of migrant stowaways heading to the United States. Now she sat at a shelter here, an amputee. But she had no intention of returning to the crime and desperation of Guatemala City; she was still looking north. 
''What can I do?'' she said.
In Washington, the biggest immigration overhaul in decades would tighten border security between Mexico and the United States to stem the flow of illegal crossings.
But there is another border making the task all the more challenging: Mexico's porous boundary with Central America, where an increasing number of migrants heading to the United States cross freely into Mexico under the gaze of the Mexican authorities. So many Central Americans are fleeing the violence, crime and economic stagnation of their homes that American officials have encountered a tremendous spike in migrants making their way through Mexico to the United States.
American arrests of illegal crossers from countries other than Mexico -- mostly from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador -- more than doubled along the southwest border of the United States last year, to 94,532 from 46,997 in 2011.
Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, met with Mexican officials in January, partly to discuss improving security on Mexico's border with its Central American neighbors, something the new president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has promised to do. The United States, which has provided equipment and other assistance to help shore up Mexico's southern border, has long worried about migrants, drugs, guns and possibly even terrorists heading north, concerns shared by Mexico.
But Mexico has been conflicted about its border. Many here see migrants as Latin American brethren who need humanitarian assistance as they pass through on their journey north. Yet there is also growing concern that migrants may stay longer in Mexico as its economy picks up and it becomes harder to cross into the United States.
Here in Ciudad Hidalgo, a police officer watched on a riverbank as seven men crossed the narrow Suchiate River separating this part of Guatemala and Mexico. They sat on a makeshift raft of wooden planks and giant inflatable inner tubes, one of scores openly crossing back and forth carrying beer, paper towels, fruit, soft drinks and, of course, migrants heading to the United States.
The officer saw the men, dressed in tattered clothes and carrying backpacks, hop off the raft and drift into town. He did not stop or question them.
''If they are without papers, we would have to house and feed them until the immigration authorities come,'' he said. ''We don't have a budget for that.''
The migrants from Central America speak of needing work -- like previous generations. But they also talk about out-of-control crime in big cities, as drug and organized crime groups from Mexico push into their countries.
Few had even heard about the debate to overhaul immigration laws and possibly open a pathway to citizenship for immigrants living illegally in the United States. Instead, the prevailing force seems to be deteriorating conditions at home.
Ms. López Hernández said neighbors had been kidnapped for ransom. One young man from Honduras hung his head as he recalled a brother gunned down. Another said he could never imagine returning to Honduras after being shot in the gut and seeing his sister's arms chopped off by a man who invaded a party looking for a gang rival.
''Everybody wants to get out,'' said another migrant from Honduras, Joel Bunes, 21.
The United States has poured money into Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala to train and aid their police, but violence remains disturbingly high, raising vexing questions.
How far should the United States go in pressing Mexico to secure its free-for-all border? To what extent should the United States help alleviate the economic woes and instability driving migrants out of Central America, especially in cities like San Pedro Sula, Honduras, often called the murder capital of the world?
Next week, President Obama will attend a meeting with Central American presidents, who have said they want to discuss migration and improving the economy and public safety with him.
''This is a truly regional problem and needs regional decisions and even regional institutions to resolve, and the U.S. could play a larger role in developing that,'' said Eduardo Stein, a former vice president of Guatemala who studies migration.
United States Customs and Border Protection said it planned to run public service announcements in Central America warning of the dangers of making the crossing. Migrants face robbers, rapists, crooked police officers and inhospitable terrain; disappearances are common.
Mexico says it is doing its part, spending about $300 million in the past few years building or modernizing border crossings, issuing identity cards for agriculture workers and establishing checkpoints on major roads to deter and catch migrants.
Yet on a recent afternoon, half of the eight checkpoints on a major highway heading north were unattended or staffed by officials paying only minimal attention. At one crossing at the Suchiate River, beneath a bridge, smugglers and migrants passed literally under the noses of customs and immigration officers above.
At a migrant shelter in Tapachula, young men from Honduras huddled around a map on a wall, placing one finger on Honduras and another on the United States.
''My God, we are not even halfway there,'' one said.
Selvin Espinoza, 19, said the group had been robbed along the way by police officers in Guatemala who demanded nearly $100 for safe passage.
But factory jobs back home were drying up, Mr. Espinoza said, while gangs roamed, kidnapping and extorting at will.
''You cannot make enough to make ends meet,'' he said.
Outside the shelter, a smuggler from El Salvador waited for them, recruiting more customers for the journey north.
''I know how to get them to the train north or on the buses,'' he said.
Just north, in Arriaga, migrants gathered where the train, known as the Beast, departs for northern cities. A Panamanian bought soda as Guatemalans pooled their money for tortillas and Hondurans gathered around a pickup truck where church workers offered coffee and pastries.
Everybody knew of the danger of the train; nobody spoke of skipping it.
''I am afraid of the train, but it is something you have to do,'' said one.
Ms. López Hernández knows it well. Her husband died four years ago, leaving her a widow at age 18 with a 9-month-old girl.
Unable to find work, she said, she decided to join a brother who had made it to Florida a few years before. He assured her there were jobs as maids, cooks, baby sitters, and she hoped to earn enough money to support her daughter and the relatives caring for her back home.
She made it to Mexico and onto the train. But after it departed there were cries of ''Migra!'' -- the immigration police -- and a scramble that sent her tumbling under the train.
''I closed my eyes and bore the pain,'' she said.
Eddie Ventura, 31, a Guatemalan, stood on the bridge across the Suchiate River on the Guatemalan side, selling disposable razors for $1 apiece. His own prosthetic leg, an old donated one, rested against a railing; he had lost his leg, like Ms. López Hernández, after falling from the train, and now he watches his compatriots take their chances.
''They don't know what is waiting for them,'' Mr. Ventura said, shaking his head.
Yet he has not given up trying himself.
''I still want to get into that country,'' he said of the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrants from Central America stow away on a train in Arriaga, in southern Mexico, in an effort to reach the United States. (A1)
People on a raft illegally cross the Suchiate River, which separates a part of Guatemala from Mexico, passing near a bridge checkpoint. Migrants often cross under the gaze of Mexican authorities.
The Mexican military patrols along the Suchiate River in Ciudad Hidalgo, looking for weapons and drugs. The United States has provided assistance to help shore up Mexico's southern border.
 Left, at a shelter in Tapachula, Mexico, Hondurans check their progress toward the United States on a map. A man and a girl walk to Talismán after crossing illegally into Mexico from Guatemala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO CRUZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAP: Migration north across Mexico's southern border is increasing. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); IMMIGRATION (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); RIVERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); TERRORISM (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SOFT DRINKS (50%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (79%); ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GUATEMALA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); HONDURAS (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



844 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Median Pay in U.S. Is Stagnant, but Low-Paid Workers Lose

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE median pay of American workers has stagnated in recent years, but that is not true for all workers. When adjusted for inflation, the wages of low-paid workers have declined. But the wages for better-paid workers have grown significantly more rapidly than inflation.
The Labor Department last week reported the levels of ''usual weekly wages'' reported by Americans questioned in the household survey that determines the unemployment rate. The figures are released quarterly, with details on the distribution of wages available since 2000. 
Those figures are different from total income, in that they ignore investment income as well as bonuses or overtime that is not considered usual. The national median wage in the first quarter of this year was $827 a week. In 2013 dollars, the median wage 13 years before was $819, so the increase is about 1 percent. The figures include all workers over the age of 25.
The department said that to reach the 90th percentile -- that is, to earn more money than 90 percent of those with jobs -- a person needed to earn $1,909 a week. That figure was nearly 9 percent higher than in early 1980.
To reach the 10th percentile -- earning less money than 90 percent of those with jobs -- required an income of $387 a week. After adjusting for inflation, that figure is down 3 percent from 2000.
The accompanying charts show the trends over time for the 25th and 75th percentiles, as well as the median and the 10th and 90th percentiles.
Put another way, in 2000 a worker in the 75th percentile made 48 percent more than a worker at the median, or 50th percentile. Now, a worker in that group earns 58 percent more.
The trends have been similar within education groups. The median income of college graduates in the first quarter of this year was $1,189 a week. Adjusted for inflation, that figure was about 1 percent less than the median 13 years earlier. To make the 90th percentile, a college graduate needed to earn $2,585 a week, a figure that is about 8 percent higher than the 2000 earnings needed.
There were somewhat similar trends among those with only high school diplomas, who are shown in the chart, and among those who attended college but did not earn a bachelor's degree. Only among high school dropouts was the pattern different. Their real wages have fallen at every percentile.
The accompanying charts seem to indicate that real incomes went up for most groups during the financial crisis in 2009. That is, at least, a little misleading for several reasons. First, the number of people with full-time jobs declined. To the extent that those who lost jobs tended to be nearer the lower end of the wage distribution, that by itself would automatically raise the median income.
The second reason for that is that inflation virtually vanished during the crisis. The Consumer Price Index in the third quarter of 2010 was a little lower than it had been two years earlier. Because wages are ''sticky,'' they tend not to decline in nominal terms even if there is deflation. But when inflation returned, wage levels did not keep up.
It should also be noted that the people in the top 10 percent, or the bottom 10 percent, may change from one year to the next. It is possible that some people in the bottom 10 percent did better than the charts indicate, moving up to a higher percentile in later years. And, of course, some people presumably moved in the other direction as well.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Widening Inequality In Wages: Since 2000, real weekly wages of relatively low-paid workers have declined, while for those nearer the top of the ladder, they have risen. The charts show the change in real wages since the first quarter of 2000 for all workers. Wages at the 90th percentile, meaning the amount needed to rank in the top 10 percent of full-time workers, were 9 percent higher during the first quarter of this year than they had been 13 years earlier, after adjusting for inflation. The median wage -- the 50th percentile -- was up only 1 percent, and the 10th percentile was 3 percent lower than it had been in 2000. That general pattern applies across education groups as well. The differences between the best paid and the worst paid high school graduates are also growing, as are the differences among college graduates. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (95%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); TRENDS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); OVERTIME (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



845 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Federal Cuts Are Concern In Modest U.S. Growth

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
It's not great, but it's still probably the best growth the American economy is going to see for a while.
Economic activity picked up in the first quarter of this year, with output expanding at an annualized pace of 2.5 percent, according to a Commerce Department report released on Friday. The number was a welcome improvement from the unusually sluggish growth at the end of 2012, but significant government spending cuts and the pinch from recent tax increases look likely to keep the economy in stall speed in the months ahead.
''We just have not been able to hit escape velocity, to get us growing fast enough to make up for the ground we lost during the recession,'' said Steve Blitz, director and chief economist at ITG Investment Research. He forecasts growth around 2 to 2.5 percent for the rest of the year, which is slower than the economy's long-term average. ''Government spending is clearly a negative, but the reason why it's such a strong negative is because there's nothing else in the private sector really driving things forward.'' 
Economists noted that even the decent growth in the first quarter was probably somewhat overstated, with some of the improvement caused mostly by a rebound from the bare 0.4 annual growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2012. Businesses drew down their back-room inventories at the end of last year, so they needed to replenish them at the start of 2013. But that stockroom rebalancing appears to have restored inventories to acceptable levels and probably will not drive much more business spending growth later in the year.
Similarly, consumer spending was stronger in the first quarter, growing at its fastest pace since late 2010. But Mr. Blitz discounted even that apparently good news because so much of the extra spending was in housing and utility costs, which could have been driven by unusually cold weather.
It also seems unlikely that consumers will spend as freely in the months ahead, economists said. Consumer sentiment and retailer reports suggest that households are starting to feel squeezed from the lapse of the two-year payroll tax holiday. That meant the Social Security tax rate rose 2 percentage points in January, adding about $700 a year to the typical worker's tax bill.
Wage stagnation may also put a crimp in spending. Much of the job growth, after all, has been concentrated in relatively low-paying areas like food services and retail, and household incomes have been more or less flat since May, according to Sentier Research.
On the bright side, gas prices have fallen sharply in the last two months, which means households have more money free for other kinds of purchases.
The most immediate concern for many businesses and consumers is the shrinking government.
In the first quarter of this year, government spending fell at an annual rate of 8.4 percent, after a decrease of 14.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 -- with the cuts driven by sharp declines in military spending. Both declines happened largely before the bulk of Congress's across-the-board spending cuts took place. The so-called sequester is scheduled to strip $85 billion out of federal spending before Oct. 1, cuts that will have secondary effects throughout the private sector. Furloughed federal workers, for example, will spend less money at local businesses.
While lower government borrowing and spending can help free resources for business when the economy is operating closer to its capacity, that is not the case today. What may moderate the drag from federal spending cuts is the prospect that state and local governments may stop cutting and start spending more now that their tax revenue has risen in the last year, said Paul Dales, senior United States economist at Capital Economics.
Still, more federal cuts will probably overwhelm whatever may happen at the state and local levels.
''With fiscal tightening weighing on the spring and summer quarters, we expect weaker growth ahead,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisers, said in a note to clients. ''We have seen good quarters before, but what counts is sustainability, and on that score we are deeply unconvinced.''
The pace of economic activity may have already begun to slow, given recent disappointing reports about economic indicators in March. Hiring slowed sharply last month, for example, and orders for durable goods like aircraft and metals fell more than analysts had expected. Some economists are keeping their fingers crossed that unusually cold weather was responsible for these dismal numbers, which would mean the slowdown was temporary.
Even some of the other bright spots in the latest gross domestic product report showed a slight slowdown from last quarter. Business spending on equipment and software, for example, rose at an annual rate of 3 percent in the first quarter of 2013, but not as quickly as in the fourth quarter of 2012, when it rose 11.8 percent. Residential investment spending -- housing, essentially -- had its third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth, but again, the pace in the first quarter was not quite as robust as it was at the end of last year (12.6 percent annual growth in the first quarter, compared to 17.6 percent the previous quarter).
The housing recovery is ''becoming an important driver of economic growth and will probably continue to be, which is one thing that really sets the U.S. out from other countries right now,'' Mr. Dales said.
Strength in the housing market, particularly the rise in home prices, could make consumers feel richer and therefore more willing to spend, said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. He cautioned that the housing market might not be a strong driver of growth for very long, because the current rebound is coming from ''unsustainably low levels of activity from the depths of the recession.'' In the future, he said, ''we'll probably see a calmer rate of growth.''
Nothing in Friday's report looks likely to change Federal Reserve policy, economists said. The Fed has indicated it will slow its asset purchases and raise interest rates only after considerable economic improvement.
Justin Wolfers, an economics professor at the University of Michigan, said the government's fiscal policy was a drag on the economy. He suggested that the Fed might also not be doing enough to bolster employment, given that inflation rates are still below official targets.
''The bigger picture is that we have a fledgling recovery which needs help but isn't getting it,'' he said.
Friday's report was the Commerce Department's initial estimate for gross domestic product growth, and the numbers will be revised substantially in coming months. This summer the department will also will also release its benchmark revisions, which are a more comprehensive overhaul of how it calculates the size and growth of the economy. Those revisions will probably affect all of the numbers released over the last several decades.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Part of a modular home on the line at DeLuxe Building Systems in Berwick, Pa. Housing grew strongly in the first quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B3) CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); TAX LAW (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX RELIEF (70%); RETAILERS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



846 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Bill Seeking End To Flight Delays

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Congressional Democrats on Friday abandoned their once-firm stand that growing airport bottlenecks would be addressed only in a broader fix to across-the-board spending cuts, accepting bipartisan legislation that would bring the nation's air traffic control system back up to full strength.
With remarkable speed, the House overwhelmingly approved legislation to give the secretary of transportation enough financial flexibility to shift as much as $253 million to the air traffic control system, less than a week after the onset of politically problematic flight delays driven by across-the-board spending cuts. The money will be shifted from airport improvement funds, and none would come from additional revenues, once a key demand of Mr. Obama and the Democrats. The 361-to-41 vote came less than 24 hours after the Senate rushed the measure through.
Republicans claimed victory. ''Consider that the Democrats' opening position was they would only replace the sequester with tax increases,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said in a memo to members before the vote. ''By last night, Senate Democrats were adopting our targeted 'cut this, not that' approach. This victory is in large part a result of our standing together.'' 
The Congressional action effectively undoes one of the thorniest results of ''sequestration,'' the $85 billion in spending cuts that took effect March 1 and have rippled across the federal government. With the president's promised signature, Democrats will lose significant leverage they had hoped would force Republicans into a larger agreement since the flight delays were seen as the sort of inconvenience that could force a reversal of the cuts.
The action also brought charges that lawmakers known for gridlock could move only when affluent travelers like themselves felt the sting of Congress's indecision and that the struggles of lower-income Americans affected by the spending cuts were being ignored. House members who have cleared precious little legislation this year made swift work of the air travel bill minutes before flying out themselves for a weeklong break, a pile of cars stacked up behind the Capitol waiting to ferry them to Washington's airports.
''We're leaving the homeless behind,'' said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont. ''We're leaving a lot of National Guard folks behind. We're leaving seniors who depend on Meals On Wheels in the dust. Children who rely on Head Start can teach themselves to read. That's basically what's happening.''
The shifting of $253 million from the airport improvement program to air traffic operations in the Federal Aviation Administration should be enough to stop further furloughs and keep the air traffic control system operating at a normal pace through Sept. 30, the end of the current fiscal year.
''This is a Band-Aid solution,'' said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, even as he said Mr. Obama would sign it. ''It does not solve the bigger problem.''
Republicans -- and some Democrats -- had been pushing for much of the month for a rescue of the air traffic control system. But lawmakers who wanted a separate budget rescue for the F.A.A. met resistance from some lawmakers who questioned why air travel was being rescued when children were being thrown out of early education programs, food safety inspections were being curtailed and checks to the long-term unemployed were shrinking.
With those cuts largely invisible to most Americans, some Democrats argued that mounting delays at airports might be the only pressure point left to force Republicans to negotiate a broader deal to reverse the cuts, with a mix of spending cuts and revenue increases.
That position held sway with Democrats into Thursday evening, when Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, and Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, cornered Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader.
''We made the pitch that this wasn't about elite Americans. This is about all Americans,'' Mr. Udall said, singling out hotel and restaurant workers, airport workers and others who would be affected by a sharp decline in air travel.
Opponents also feared that a rifle-shot rescue of the air traffic-control system would open the floodgates for other supplicants seeking relief from the cuts. That fear was realized almost the moment the bill cleared Congress. Cancer clinics, Head Start administrators, housing advocates and teachers all demanded that their programs be addressed next.
''We've seen how devastating the cuts to our core government programs are already, from cuts in Head Start, reductions in housing assistance, cuts to unemployment benefits and fewer job training programs -- all when our nation still has a 7.7 percent unemployment rate,'' said Rachel Gragg, federal policy director for the National Skills Coalition, a job training advocacy group. ''And yet, Congress is scrambling to fix one small -- if highly visible -- piece of sequestration, rather than solve the whole problem.''
But visible it was. On United Airlines Flight 1543 from San Francisco to Washington on Friday, the pilot announced after a 90-minute delay that Congress was at fault for ''their ineptitude,'' having financed ''worthless projects'' but not the F.A.A.
A consulting company called masFlight said Friday that since furloughs began on Sunday, the percentage of flights from major American airports that waited more than an hour to take off rose to 1.4 percent from 0.7 percent, and the percentage that waited from 31 to 60 minutes increased to 9.5 percent from 7.2 percent, compared with the previous month.
Republicans continued to assert that those delays were intentionally inflicted on the traveling public by a White House eager to press its political point.
''We're here today because this administration has decided to put politics over passengers,'' said Representative Rodney Davis, a freshman Republican from Illinois, who said the administration already had the flexibility to save the air traffic controllers.
But even Republican aides said that was not true. Under sequestration rules, all program categories faced cuts, and backfilling the narrow category ''air traffic operations'' at the Transportation Department took Congressional action.
With Democrats now in retreat, further program-specific actions could be possible. When Congress passed legislation financing the government through Sept. 30, it granted some select agencies the flexibility to make such changes.
Before the budget cuts hit, Justice Department officials warned of nearly 60,000 furloughs and rising vacancies at the Federal Bureau of Investigations and other federal law enforcement agencies. Congress granted Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. more latitude, and with the F.B.I. grappling with the Boston Marathon bombings, Mr. Holder asked and received permission to shift hundreds of millions of dollars in the Justice Department budget to spare the agencies of any furloughs.
A similar request is expected from the Defense Department in the coming days.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The measure passed by the House on Friday is intended to end the furloughs of airport workers that caused airport delays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MEALS ON WHEELS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); PETER WELCH (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



847 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: The Market Shall Set North Korea Free

BYLINE: By JANG JIN-SUNG

 BODY:
Seoul
I DEFECTED from North Korea in 2004. I decided to risk my life to leave my home country -- where I worked as a psychological warfare officer for the government -- when it finally sunk in that there are two North Koreas: one real and the other a fiction created by the regime.
Although in my job I had access to foreign media, books with passages containing criticism of our Dear Leader Kim Jong-il or his revered father, Kim Il-sung, had large sections blacked out. One day, out of deep curiosity, I made up an excuse to stay behind at work to decipher the redacted words of a history book.
I locked the office door and put the pages against a window. Light from outside made the words under the ink perfectly clear. I read voraciously. I stayed late at work again and again to learn my country's real history -- or at least another view of it. 
Most shocking was what I discovered about the Korean War. We had been taught all of our lives how an invasion by the South had triggered the conflict. Yet now I was reading that not only South Korea but the rest of the world believed the North had started the war. Who was right?
It was after my harrowing defection -- in which I bribed my way to a border crossing and escaped by running across a frozen river to China -- that I recognized the existence of a third North Korea: a theoretical one. This is the North Korea constructed by the outside world, a piecemeal analysis of the regime and its propaganda that misses the political and economic realities of the country.
All of us at the United Front Department -- also known as ''the window into and out of North Korea'' -- learned three tenets of diplomacy by heart: 1. Pay no attention to South Korea. 2. Exploit Japan's emotions. 3. Ply the United States with lies, but make sure they are logical ones.
Kim Jong-il stressed the importance of these three tenets as the framework within which we were required to implement his vision for Pyongyang's foreign relations. North Korea's dealings with South Korea, Japan and the United States always hewed closely to these principles.
Our department's mission was to deceive our people and the world, doing what was necessary to keep our leader in power. We openly referred to talks with South Korea as ''aid farming,'' because while Seoul sought dialogue through its so-called Sunshine Policy, we saw it as an opening not for diplomatic progress but for extracting as much aid as possible. We also successfully bought time for our nuclear program through the endless marathon of the six-party talks.
Despite Pyongyang's deceptive ways, many people in the outside world continue to believe in the theoretical North Korea in which dialogue with the regime is seen as the way to effect change. But I know from my years inside the government that talking will not get Pyongyang to turn any corners, not even with the North's current leader, Kim Jong-un.
Dialogue will never entice the regime to give up its nuclear weapons; the nuclear program is tightly linked to its survival. And talks will not lead to change over the long term; the regime sees them only as a tool for extracting aid. High-level diplomacy is no strategy for getting the regime to make economic reforms. The key to change lies outside the sway of the regime -- in the flourishing underground economy.
All North Koreans depended for their very survival on a state rationing system until it collapsed in the mid-1990s. Its demise was due in part to the regime's concentrated investment of funds in a ''party economy'' that maintained the cult of the Kims and lavished luxuries on an elite instead of developing a normal economy based on domestic production and trade. Desperate people began to barter household goods for rice on the streets -- and the underground economy was born. With thousands of people starving to death, the authorities had no option but to turn a blind eye to all the illegal markets that began to pop up.
Around this time, the nation's workplaces were made responsible for feeding their employees. The only way they could do so was by setting up ''trading companies,'' which sold raw materials to China in exchange for rice. These businesses became part of the foundation of the underground economy, acting as import-export hubs that in time began to import from China consumer goods like refrigerators and radios.
Likewise, party officials started to take part in wheeling and dealing, profiting through bribe-collecting and prohibited financing activities. Nowadays the party is so deeply involved in the market economy that the ''trading companies'' are staffed by the children of party officials and openly operate on behalf of the party and military. In short, all of North Korea has come to rely on a market economy, and no place in the country is untouched by it.
The social effect of the rise of the market has been extraordinary: The umbilical cord between the individual and the state has been severed. In the people's eyes, loyalty to the state has been replaced by the value of hard cash. And the U.S. greenback is the currency of choice.
Trading with their U.S. dollars (many of which are counterfeit) for Chinese products, North Koreans have come to recognize the existence of leaders greater even than the Kims. Who are these men gracing U.S. bank notes? North Koreans now see that loyalty to the supreme leader has brought no tangible benefits; yet currency bearing the faces of American men is exchanged for many things: rice, meat, even a promotion at work.
Today, when North Koreans are ordered by their state employer to take part in political activities, they know their time is being wasted. Fewer North Koreans show up for their state jobs. This growing economic and psychological independence among regular people is becoming the greatest thorn in the regime's side.
It is also the key to change. Instead of focusing on the regime and its agents as possible instigators of reform, we must recognize the power of the flourishing marketplace to slowly but definitively transform North Korea from the bottom up. This empowerment of the North Korean people is crucial not only for a positive transformation of the nation, but also for ensuring a stable transition to the new era after the regime eventually goes.
Increasing trade with China has made the North Korean border porous in many ways, facilitating a flow of information in and out of the country. Many North Koreans can now access South Korean television programs that are smuggled in on DVDs or memory sticks.
One way to accelerate change would be by continuing to broadcast into the country so that North Koreans can access outside radio programming on their illegal devices more easily. Another is to support the work of North Korean exiles, who are a conduit of goods and liberal ideas across the border.
Talks with Pyongyang can only offer temporary solutions to manufactured crises. And I can say from my experience, they encourage only more deception from the North. Looking at North Korea from below, building on the market realities on the ground, is the only effective way to make the regime reform -- or go.
Jang Jin-sung, a former North Korean state official and poet laureate, is editor in chief of New Focus International, a Web site on North Korean affairs. This article was translated from the Korean by Shirley Lee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); HISTORY (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



848 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: For Europe's Small Businesses, a Deepening Struggle

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Smaller companies that provide most of the jobs in Europe face an ever more difficult struggle to win customers and get bank loans, according to a survey from the European Central Bank on Friday that contributed to a picture of spreading economic stagnation in the euro zone.
Small and midsize companies in South European countries like Spain and Italy reported the most trouble making a profit, maintaining revenue and getting loans, according to the E.C.B. survey of 7,500 firms. Underscoring the plight of people in Southern Europe, the Spanish government said Friday that economic growth in coming years could be even worse than previously thought. 
But the survey also pointed to signs of trouble in Northern Europe, further raising expectations that the E.C.B. might be all but compelled to cut its main interest rate in the coming week.
''It seems very difficult for the E.C.B. to leave the monetary policy stance unchanged,'' Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young, said in an e-mail. Economists expect the E.C.B. to cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent when it meets Thursday.
U.S. economic growth continues to stand in contrast to Europe's. The American economy sped up in the first quarter of this year, with output expanding at an annual pace of 2.5 percent, according to a U.S. Commerce Department report Friday. That number was lower than the 3 percent forecasters had been expecting, but it is a rosy picture compared with the doldrums in Europe.
Until recently, companies in Germany and other North European countries had come through the euro zone crisis relatively unscathed. But the E.C.B. survey found that a growing number of companies in Germany, the Netherlands and Austria were suffering, with more and more reporting that ''finding customers'' was now their biggest worry.
Even if the 17 countries in the euro zone are more and more in the same economic boat, though, tensions among their leaders are rising.
In a position paper prepared for a coming political convention, and quoted by the French newspaper Le Monde, leading members of France's Socialist Party complained of what they said was ''the selfish intransigence'' of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
Ms. Merkel, the document said, ''cares only for the bank depositors of the upper Rhine, the trade balance in Berlin and her electoral future.''
Ms. Merkel raised eyebrows Thursday when, in remarks to German bankers, she said that Germany should have higher, not lower, interest rates. It is considered taboo for a political leader to try to put pressure on the E.C.B.
In the E.C.B. survey, conducted in February and March and which focused on firms with fewer than 250 employees, companies throughout the euro zone reported declines in profit, except in Germany and Austria. Even in those countries, though, earnings were flat.
Along with separate data from the E.C.B. that showed a dip in bank lending last month, the survey adds to a growing body of evidence that a recovery of the euro zone economy may not materialize until next year. The figures suggest that, while fear of a breakup of the 17-member euro zone has ebbed, the currency union is at risk of long-term stagnation.
Meanwhile, a document has come to light in which Jens Weidmann, president of the German central bank, the Bundesbank, argued that some measures by the E.C.B., which are largely responsible for the decline in financial stress, would be illegal.
Mr. Weidmann made the critique in an opinion he submitted in December to the German Constitutional Court, which is considering a complaint against Germany's participation in measures designed to keep the euro zone together. The 29-page document was confidential until Handelsblatt, a German business newspaper, published it Friday.
Mr. Weidmann wrote that the E.C.B. would violate its mandate if it bought government bonds of euro zone members on a huge scale, as it has pledged to do if needed to keep down borrowing costs for troubled countries.
The E.C.B. has not needed to buy any bonds because the promise alone has been enough to calm financial markets. In one sign of receding financial tension, bank data compiled by the E.C.B. and published Friday showed no sign of a flight by depositors following turmoil in Cyprus last month, except in Cyprus.
Mr. Weidmann wrote to the Constitutional Court that E.C.B. bond purchases ''would burden the independence of the central bank, which is a central precondition for successful fulfillment of its main duty -- defending price stability.'' The Bundesbank confirmed the authenticity of the document.
It is no surprise that Mr. Weidmann opposes E.C.B. bond buying, but publication of his remarks was a reminder of divisions within the E.C.B.'s Governing Council, of which he is a member.
Mr. Weidmann is scheduled to testify before the Constitutional Court in June. The court probably does not have the power to block E.C.B. action, but a ruling critical of the bank might make it harder for it to act if needed.
While an E.C.B. rate cut is now widely expected, it could be the subject of intense debate when policy makers meet Thursday. A cut may be unwelcome in Germany, where low borrowing costs have helped fuel a sharp rise in real estate prices in some metropolitan areas during the last year. That might have been part of the impulse for Ms. Merkel's remarks on Thursday.
On Friday, Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for Chancellor Merkel, insisted that she had not intended to encroach on the central bank's independence. ''There is no reason to assume that the chancellor meant to give any kind of warning or suggestion to the E.C.B. in her speech,'' he said.
As the northern countries risk sliding into recession, the downturn along the Mediterranean has been getting worse. The Spanish government on Friday gave a darker forecast for the economy, saying it expected a contraction this year of 1.3 percent compared with an earlier forecast of a 0.5 percent decline.
Next year, said Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, the deputy prime minister, the economy would grow 0.5 percent. Unemployment would rise to 27.1 percent this year and fall to 26.7 percent next year, she said, according to Reuters.
Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dry-cured Iberian ham at an Estrella de Castilla factory in the town of Guijuelo in Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS DOYLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POLITICS (65%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); SPAIN (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



849 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Samsung Reports 42 Percent Jump in Profit

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL -- Samsung Electronics reported its sixth consecutive quarter of profit growth Friday, as the South Korean electronics giant increased its assault on the Apple iPhone with its newest Galaxy smartphone. 
In an earnings report, Samsung said its net profit from January through March had soared 42 percent to 7.2 trillion won, or $6.5 billion, from 5 trillion won a year earlier.
Sales rose 17 percent to 52.9 trillion won. Operating profit was up 54 percent to 8.8 trillion won. Profit from the division that makes smartphones, tablets, personal computers and cameras accounted for nearly three-quarters of the company's entire profit.
Samsung is the world's largest maker of computer memory chips, televisions, mobile handsets and LCD panels. It does not provide smartphone sales figures, but it has increasingly relied on smartphones as its main profit generator -- a strategy that has brought the company into patent and marketing clashes with Apple.
Samsung began sales of its latest Galaxy S4 smartphone in South Korea on Friday. It planned to introduce it in the United States on Saturday.
Samsung's rivalry with Apple on the Apple's home turf intensified as Apple reported its first profit decline in more than a decade. Apple also indicated it planned no major product releases until the autumn.
Samsung has challenged Apple's once dominant place in the world's smartphone market by flooding it with a range of models with a variety of screen sizes and prices and updating its versions faster than Apple ever has.
Samsung captured a third of the global smartphone market in the first quarter, according to data released by Strategy Analytics. Shipments of Samsung smartphones surged 56 percent to 69.4 million units in the quarter, it said. Apple iPhone shipments rose 6.6 percent to 37.4 million units.
''Although market uncertainties from the European crisis and the slow global economic recovery are still lingering, we expect to increase'' spending on research and development ''for strengthening our competitiveness ahead of planned new product launches,'' Robert Yi, Samsung's head of investor relations, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (96%); SMARTPHONES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (88%); SHIPMENTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (73%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (54%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (54%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); SAMSUNG GROUP (95%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



850 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Shadows of an Old Military Base

BYLINE: By FLOYD WHALEY

 BODY:
SUBIC BAY, Philippines -- Abraham Parungao watched hopefully as three American sailors walked through his souvenir shop full of T-shirts, decorative beer mugs and placards with cheeky slogans. After haggling for a while over a $5 wood carving, the young men left without buying a thing.
''Before, the Americans had so much money,'' said Mr. Parungao, 64, in his small stall in front of where the U.S. submarine tender Emory S. Land was tied up for a visit. ''These new American sailors are cheap.''
The thousands of big-spending sailors have been gone for more than two decades -- since the United States turned over the Subic Bay Naval Station to the Philippines in 1992 -- but the sprawling former military base still receives regular visits from U.S. Navy ships.
Today, the Subic Bay Freeport is a special economic zone established to attract job-generating investors with low taxes, duty-free import privileges and streamlined procedures. It has also become a popular tourist destination for Filipinos seeking to enjoy the jungles, the beaches and the American legacy of the former military base. 
In line with the Obama administration's greater focus on the Asia-Pacific region, Subic is once again a popular port of call for the U.S. Navy. A subsidiary of a major U.S. defense company is bidding on ship repair and logistical support contracts, and the Philippine Department of National Defense has reserved large portions of the former base for future use by the Philippine military and its allies, principally the United States.
U.S. Navy ships can often be seen in Subic these days, but the seaport that millions of U.S. service members passed through will probably never be the center of U.S. power in Asia that it once was.
The 678-square-kilometer, or 262-square-mile, base -- about the size of Singapore -- played a role in every major U.S. military engagement between 1898 and 1992. In October 1968, at the height of the Vietnam War, it took in 47 U.S. Navy ships in a single day. During the 1991 Gulf war, 70 percent of U.S. naval supplies in that conflict came from Subic, Rear Adm. Thomas Mercer said when the base closed.
''Subic Bay was the service station and supermarket of the fleet,'' said Gerald Anderson, a retired naval officer and the author of several books on the area.
Today, the Freeport features lively commercial areas and tourist attractions, but it is also studded with evidence of failed investments and the ruins of a decaying military base. New or renovated buildings stand beside an abandoned casino and the foundations of a never-completed South Korean skyscraper.
The U.S. Navy left behind more than 1,800 centrally air-conditioned houses in neighborhoods designed to resemble American suburbs. Some sit empty, while others have been converted into tourist accommodations. Yet others have been leased by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority, the government agency that oversees the Freeport, as private residences with the pitch that Subic offers an American lifestyle in the middle of the Philippines.
A recent drive down Easy Street in one of the former U.S. Navy housing areas found people living a semblance of the American dream. In front of one house was a monster truck with a custom paint job that looked ready for an American car show. Speedboats and water scooters sat in driveways with children's bikes in the yards. The community has a school, a public swimming pool and ample playgrounds.
Just down the road, at the Royal department store, a Filipino family lined up at the cashier with two cases of Spam, stacks of American breakfast cereals and boxes of Cheez-Its. The children lobbied their parents for American candy bars on display near the cash register.
The scene was probably not much different in 1967, when about 4.2 million military personnel and their dependents purchased more than $25 million in goods at the same location. At that time, it was one of the largest navy exchanges in the world.
Perhaps nowhere is the contrast between the old and new more vivid than along the polluted river that divides the Freeport from the city of Olongapo. The Olongapo River, given a derogatory nickname inspired by the sewage it held, was once the boundary between the well-appointed U.S. Navy base and the poverty of the Philippines.
During a recent visit, a Filipino couple was discussing in hushed tones which type of Swiss chocolate to buy from the new Marks & Spencer outlet in the high-end shopping mall that now hugs the Freeport side of the river.
A drive deeper into the former base leads to the outskirts of a 4,000-hectare, or 10,000-acre, jungle preserved by the U.S. Navy, and now by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority, that is one of the last virgin forests on Luzon Island.
During the 1980s, George Soper underwent survival training in the dense rain forest. He and other U.S. marines were paired with local tribesmen who taught them how to find clean water, food and medicine in the forbidding environment. ''Nowhere else in the world did you have a U.S. military base with access to a jungle like this,'' Mr. Soper said.
Today, those same tribesmen teach jungle survival tips to tourists, usually in staged demonstrations that include slapstick comedy routines.
Just past the former jungle training area lies what had been the Cubi Point Naval Air Station, an airstrip that could handle some of the largest military aircraft in the U.S. arsenal. Now ambitiously redesignated the Subic Bay International Airport, it is largely languishing in disuse. During a recent visit, the only aircraft using the airport was a cargo plane delivering dolphins to a nearby ocean park.
Next to the airport are symbols of the once-high hopes for Subic's transformation into a booming commercial area. In 1996, Subic hosted the Fourth Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders Meeting. In honor of the event, 18 luxury villas were built -- one for each head of state visiting the new Freeport.
These days, the villas lie in disrepair. The tennis court is clogged with weeds, and the water in the swimming pool has an off-putting green tint.
Farther inside the former base is the once heavily guarded naval magazine area, which was once home to an estimated 50,000 tons of ordnance. The munitions were stored in more than a hundred bunkers, now abandoned or, in rare instances, repurposed.
In the cool dark confines of one of these former bunkers, now a restaurant known as Bunker Bob's and run by a former U.S. Navy officer, tourists from a nearby beach area were dining at tables adorned with camouflage-patterned linens. On the menu were pizza and Mexican dishes. Historic maps of Subic and World War II-era posters lined the walls.
There is little consensus, among the thousands of retired U.S. military personnel and Filipinos who live around Subic, as to whether the conversion of the base into a commercial zone can be considered a success.
About 90,000 people work in the Freeport, according to government data. That is nearly double the 46,000 Filipinos employed by all U.S. military bases in the Philippines in 1987, when the bases were in full operation, according to Mr. Anderson, the historian.
But the Freeport has also experienced problems. The Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority has reported losses of about 7 billion pesos, or $175 million, from its creation in 1992 through 2011. The area has also been investigated repeatedly by Philippine legislators, and criticized by President Benigno S. Aquino III, in connection with large-scale smuggling of oil, vehicles, rice and other commodities.
In addition, many of the jobs in Subic today are low-paying service-sector positions. The jobs created by the U.S. Navy offered high pay, generous benefits and valuable technical training, according to former base employees.
Perlita Felicitas, 58, a resident of Olongapo, said that her father had worked for more than a decade in the U.S. Navy's Ship Repair Facility. Employees in the current shipbuilding and ship repair operations in Subic, she said, make a fraction of what her father earned.
''We were four children and all of us were able to go to college because of the U.S. Navy,'' she said. ''We were sad when they left. There are no opportunities like that anymore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (91%); NAVIES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); SHIPBUILDING (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); DESERT STORM (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); TOURISM (68%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (68%); WRITERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



851 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: South Korea To Pull Staff From North

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea said on Friday that it was pulling out the 175 remaining factory managers from a jointly operated industrial park in North Korea, deepening doubts over the survival of the only remaining symbol of cooperation between the two countries amid a tense standoff over the North's nuclear program.
Once billed as an important experiment for Korean reunification, the factory complex across the border at Kaesong exposed North Korea to capitalism, pairing the South's manufacturing skills with cheap North Korean labor. At the time it was opened in 2004, the park was revolutionary; to build it, the two Koreas breached one of the world's most heavily fortified frontiers, pushing back military encampments, clearing mines and constructing a cross-border road and rail line. 
The decision to effectively close the 123 factories there is an indication of how fraught relations between the two nations have become in recent months. The South had preserved the Kaesong complex even when it cut off all other trade ties with the North after the sinking of one of its warships in 2010. That episode killed 46 sailors, and the South blamed the North. North Korea had also continued its support of the plant, which provided badly needed hard currency, through previous diplomatic crises.
''The Kaesong complex fell victim to a war of nerves between the new leaders of both Koreas, who don't want to be seen as weak,'' said Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul.
North Korea had already removed its 53,000 workers this month as part of an escalation of threats after the United Nations imposed sanctions to punish the North for its nuclear test in February. The North's leaders cited the danger of war that it said was posed by joint South Korean-United States military drills. It also blocked supplies and personnel from the South, forcing all the factories to stop production. Most South Korean managers already at the plant returned home, but some stayed in the hope that relations would improve.
The decision to withdraw the managers came hours after North Korea rejected the South's proposal for talks on the park's future. South Korea said the situation was becoming untenable because the North was no longer letting food and medicine be shipped to the site.
''To protect our citizens, we have made an inevitable decision to bring all of them home,'' Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl-jae, South Korea's point man on the North, said in a nationally televised statement.
The decision reflected President Park Geun-hye's determination not to succumb to what she called North Korea's tactic of using provocations and pressure to extract concessions -- a move the impoverished country was accused of using successfully in the past to secure major shipments of aid. On Friday, Ms. Park told her cabinet ministers that she had no intention of ''waiting forever'' for North Korea to change its mind over the factory complex.
The managers are expected to begin leaving on Saturday.
So far, neither country has publicly said that it wants to shut the complex permanently. But the countries' tit-for-tat moves have deepened doubts that the factories would resume operations anytime soon.
South Korea's leaders have liked to point to the complex's continuing operations to assuage foreign investors who might have second thoughts about investing in their country because of military tensions with the North. It is unclear how investors will react; the announcement was made after the stock market closed.
This month, General Motors said it might need to reconsider its presence in South Korea if the conflict intensified. But such jitters appear to have calmed somewhat in recent days as the level of fearsome speech from the North mainly died down.
On Thursday, South Korea signaled it might remove the workers, threatening to take a ''grave measure'' regarding the complex if the North did not agree to talks.
On Friday, North Korea's National Defense Commission, the country's highest governing agency, called the South's proposal a ''trick'' not worth considering and threatened its own ''grave measure'' if the ''South's puppet clique further aggravates the situation.''
The North did, however, promise that it would allow the managers to leave and would provide help if needed.
Mr. Kim, the Dongguk University professor, said he doubted that either country would move to permanently close the complex because each has too much to lose.
But Yang Moo-jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in the South Korean capital, Seoul, said that if South Korea cut electricity to the complex, North Korea was likely to confiscate all the factory assets -- a step that Mr. Ryoo, the unification minister, warned against on Friday. The minister reminded the North of inter-Korean agreements on protecting investments in Kaesong.
North Korea seized South Korean properties in a joint tourism resort on the North's Diamond Mountain after South Korea stopped sending tourists there in 2008. The South suspended the tours after North Korean soldiers killed a South Korean who had strayed out of the tourist zone.
South Korea spent nearly $1 billion to build the Kaesong complex, and nearly 820,000 people and a half-million cars from the South have crossed the border to travel there since 2005.
The park was a critical component of South Korea's ''sunshine policy'' of encouraging economic cooperation with the North to ease military tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula. That policy was suspended when conservatives took power in the South in 2008.
Some conservative South Koreans have argued that the complex has extended a lifeline to the North Korean leadership. Last year, the South Korean factories in Kaesong produced $470 million in textiles and other labor-intensive products. They also provided the North with $90 million a year in wages for the workers, much of it believed to be taken by the government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); LANDMINES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



852 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Shares Close Mixed on Tepid Growth and Earnings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market stalled on Friday as the United States reported disappointing figures for first-quarter growth and a handful of big companies posted tepid earnings.
The economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year, the government said, below the 3.1 percent forecast by economists. The shortfall reinforced the perception that the economy was grinding ahead, rather than charging. Investors have also been troubled by reports in the last month of weaker hiring, slower manufacturing and a drop in factory orders. Many economists expect growth to slow to an annual rate of around 2 percent for the rest of the year.
United States government bonds, where investors seek safety, rose after the report. 
''There are some concerns as we head into the summer,'' said Joe Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist for TD Ameritrade. ''In the last three weeks, we've seen numbers that weren't exactly what you'd love to see.''
Corporate earnings this week have also contained worrisome signs. Many companies missed revenue forecasts from financial analysts, even as they reported higher quarterly profits. For example, Goodyear Tire slipped 3.3 percent to $12.51 Friday after revenue fell short of analysts' estimates, hurt by lower global tire sales.
Of the companies that have reported earnings so far, 70 percent have exceeded Wall Street's expectations, compared with a 10-year average of 62 percent, according to S&P Capital IQ. But 43 percent have missed revenue estimates. Just over half of the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have reported quarterly results.
The S.& P. 500 dropped 2.92 points on Friday, or 0.2 percent, to close at 1,582.24. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 11.75 points, or 0.1 percent, to 14,712.55. The index got a big lift from Chevron, whose profit beat expectations in the first quarter, pushing the company's shares up 1.3 percent, to $120.04.
Both the S.& P. 500 and the Dow were up for the week and remain slightly below their nominal highs reached April 11. The Dow rose 1.1 percent this week while the S.& P. gained 1.7 percent.
The disappointing growth figure for the economy should ensure that the Federal Reserve sticks with its stimulus policy, providing support for stocks, said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Rockwell Global Capital.
''The economic data that we've been getting points to no early exit for the Fed's stimulus,'' Mr. Cardillo said.
The Nasdaq composite fell 10.72 points, to 3,279.26, a decline of 0.3 percent. The index rose 2.3 percent this week.
The Nasdaq, heavy on technology stocks, has lagged the Dow and the S.& P. 500 this year, but it led the way higher this week, lifted by Microsoft. The company, which makes up 5.3 percent of the Nasdaq, recorded its biggest weekly gain since January of last year -- up 6.8 percent. It reported earnings a week ago Friday that beat Wall Street expectations. The company also began an aggressive push into the tablet computer market.
Apple, the largest stock in the Nasdaq, also had a good week. Apple's stock rose 6.8 percent to $417.20, its best weekly gain since November, despite posting a decline in quarterly profit on Tuesday. Apple accounts for 7.6 percent of the Nasdaq composite.
In the bond market, interest rates slipped. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 103 1/32, while the yield fell to 1.67 percent, from 1.71 percent late on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (56%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (55%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (56%); GT (SWX) (55%); GT (NASDAQ) (55%); GT (BRU) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (55%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (55%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



853 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: How To Build A Spoon

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
I have seen the future, and it is in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
I've seen young entrepreneurs creating companies that actually make things -- not some digital app (not that there's anything wrong with that!) -- but actual products you can hold in your hand. I have seen prototypes being churned out on 3-D printers. I have seen the Navy Yard's 300-acre complex of buildings -- whose disrepair was once a symbol of manufacturing's decline -- become a symbol of manufacturing's revival.
Sorry to sound so highfalutin, but it is easy to get carried away after you've been to the Brooklyn Navy Yard. It offers something you don't often feel these days when you contemplate the future of the American economy, with its loss of middle-class jobs and the widening of the income gap. 
It allows you to feel hopeful again.
I went there this week because I had gotten interested in Spuni, a little start-up that was operating out of a development called New Lab -- essentially shared space in one of the Navy Yard's buildings for entrepreneurs and artists. (To be more precise, David Belt, New Lab's developer, is using temporary space in the Navy Yard to house his tenants, while he refurbishes some 85,000 square feet in the old naval machine shop.)
Spuni is a product dreamed up in the Boston kitchen of Isabel and Trevor Hardy. The 30-something parents of two small children, they got to mulling the mess that William, their first child, made as he was transitioning from a bottle to a spoon.
''We both have design backgrounds,'' said Isabel, ''and we were trained to solve problems by using simple design solutions.'' The problem, the Hardys concluded, was that spoons are poorly designed for small children. As they bite into the spoon, the food in the back half has nowhere to go but the floor. One day, as they were kicking around this idea with their friend Marcel Botha, a serial entrepreneur who shares a South African heritage with Trevor, they came up with the idea of a flatter-shaped, more ergonomical spoon that would allow a baby to suck the food off it.
Trevor and Isabel have full-time jobs. Once upon a time, their little idea would have remained just that -- an idea. But Marcel, who had considerable small-manufacturing experience, was convinced that they could create a company to make the Spuni, as they quickly named it. First sketched in the spring of 2011, the Spuni saw its first prototype within two months. Using a 3-D printer, they went through a half-dozen prototype iterations until they felt they had the Spuni and its packaging exactly right.
To raise capital, they relied on crowd-sourcing, generating almost $38,000 by preselling Spunis on the Web site Indiegogo. Marcel, meanwhile, cut a deal with a small German manufacturer he had used before. When we spoke on Friday, he was just returning from Germany, where he had supervised the first quality tests. Within weeks, some 8,000 Spunis will be available for purchase. Marcel expects to be manufacturing 600,000 Spunis within a year's time. If all goes according to plan, Spuni will be churning out around one million spoons a year by 2015.
The role of the Navy Yard is as an incubator of companies like Spuni. Andrew Kimball, who runs the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, a nonprofit with a 99-year lease from the city, told me that between public and private investment, around $1 billion has been raised to make the Navy Yard a destination for small entrepreneurs and other members of the creative class. According to a recent study by the Pratt Center for Community Development, the companies in the Navy Yard have been responsible for $2 billion in direct economic output and another $2 billion in indirect economic benefits. Kimball says there is a waiting list of 150 companies trying to get space in one of the Navy Yard's buildings. ''It's cool to make things again,'' he said.
Still, for all this glorious activity, the Navy Yard companies employ only 6,400 people. That's up from 3,600 in 2001, but it is a far cry from the 70,000 men who once built ships during the Navy Yard's muscular manufacturing heyday. That, of course, is the downside of the manufacturing revival in the U.S. -- it simply doesn't create the number of jobs that the old-style assembly lines used to. When I asked the Spuni founders how many employees they would need in the U.S. if they got to 600,000 in annual production, the number stunned me: 10. In Germany, the factory, at peak production, would probably not need more than 20 employees.
Marcel told me that his goal is to create a small manufacturing center in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. He would like to employ 100 or more people and produce a variety of products, not just Spunis. This is the model of modern American manufacturing.
Welcome to the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); CHILDREN (87%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); MACHINE SHOPS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



854 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: In Promoting His City for 2020 Games, Tokyo's Bid Chairman Tweaks Others

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With less than five months to go before the International Olympic Committee chooses a city to host the 2020 Summer Games, the three remaining bidders -- Istanbul, Madrid and Tokyo -- are increasing their efforts to win over delegates and the public.
The Olympic committee's rules prohibit bid committee members from directly criticizing other bids. Instead, the bidders often highlight the perceived strengths of their bids to note delicately what they believe to be their rivals' shortcomings, something known in the communications industry as counter-positioning. 
Naoki Inose, the governor of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and chairman of the Tokyo 2020 bid, has often done that, highlighting his city's extensive and efficient transportation system, as well as the financial and technical wherewithal to build first-class sports sites and housing for the athletes. He has also noted that, like Paris and London, Tokyo has hosted the Summer Games before, a claim that Istanbul and Madrid cannot make.
But Inose has also pushed the boundaries of rhetorical gamesmanship with occasionally blunt and candid statements about how his city compares with the competition, particularly Istanbul, which he has suggested is less developed and less equipped to host the Games.
''For the athletes, where will be the best place to be?'' Inose said through an interpreter in a recent interview in New York. ''Well, compare the two countries where they have yet to build infrastructure, very sophisticated facilities. So, from time to time, like Brazil, I think it's good to have a venue for the first time. But Islamic countries, the only thing they share in common is Allah and they are fighting with each other, and they have classes.''
Asked later to elaborate on his characterization of Istanbul, a spokesman said Inose meant that simply being the first Islamic country to hold the Olympics was not a good enough reason to be chosen, just as being the first Buddhist country or the first Christian country would not be, either.
The spokesman said Inose did not mean to refer to ''class.''
Istanbul is an Olympic finalist because it is an international city in one of the fastest-developing countries in the region. A member of NATO, Turkey straddles Europe and Asia and is a bridge between Christianity and Islam. With its emerging middle class, Turkey has become a political and economic powerhouse in the region.
This is Istanbul's fifth bid to host the Olympic Games. In a statement, the city's bid committee declined to address comments made by rival bidders.
''Istanbul 2020 completely respects the I.O.C. guidelines on bidding and therefore it is not appropriate to comment further on this matter,'' the statement said.
The International Olympic Committee does not look kindly on overtly harsh attacks by bidders, and occasionally it sends letters of reprimand to those who break with protocol, former bidders said.
According to Article 14 of the Rules of Conduct for bidders: ''Cities shall refrain from any act or comment likely to tarnish the image of a rival city or be prejudicial to it. Any comparison with other cities is strictly forbidden.''
Though untoward comments rarely disqualify a bid, they could raise doubts in the minds of I.O.C. delegates about the trustworthiness of a bidder.
''The reason the rule is there is that if someone deviates from it, it triggers a chain reaction,'' said Mike Moran, chief spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee from 1978 to 2002 and a senior communications counselor for New York's bid for the 2012 Summer Games. ''The I.O.C. is very serious about their protocols.''
Moran added that negative comments by bidders would probably not hurt a bid, although ''you never know how a comment might influence those I.O.C. members.''
At several points in the interview, Inose said that Japanese culture was unique and by implication superior, a widely held view in Japan. He noted that the political scientist Samuel P. Huntington wrote in his book ''The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order'' that Japan was unlike any other culture.
Inose also pointed to polls that showed 70 percent of Tokyoites in favor of hosting the Summer Games, up from 47 percent last year. The well-received London Games, he said, have helped generate enthusiasm and confidence that Tokyo can host a similarly successful event.
Tokyo, he added, is exceptional because the Imperial Palace, which is largely off-limits to residents and visitors, forms the city's core while bustling activity surrounds it. ''The central part of Tokyo has nothingness,'' he said. ''This is a unique way that society achieved modernization.''
Inose brushed aside the notion that Olympic delegates may favor Istanbul's bid because Turkey has a far younger population than Japan and thus is fertile ground for developing the next generation of Olympic enthusiasts. While population growth has stalled in Japan, the population of Tokyo has grown because of an influx of younger people, he said. He added that although Japan's population is aging, its elderly are reasonably healthy.
''We used to say that if you are poor, you have lots of kids, but we have to build infrastructure to accommodate a growing population,'' Inose said. ''What's important is that seniors need to be athletic. If you're healthy, even if you get older, health care costs will go down. The average age is 85 for women and 80 for men, so that demonstrates how stress-free'' Japan's society is.
''I'm sure people in Turkey want to live long,'' he added. ''And if they want to live long, they should create a culture like what we have in Japan. There might be a lot of young people, but if they die young, it doesn't mean much.''
Inose has drawn distinctions between Japan and other cultures in other settings, too. When he visited London in January to promote Tokyo's bid, he said Tokyo and London were sophisticated and implied that Istanbul was not.
''I don't mean to flatter, but London is in a developed country whose sense of hospitality is excellent,'' Inose told reporters. ''Tokyo's is also excellent. But other cities, not so much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The former Olympian Carl Lewis on the spot where he set a world record at the 1991 world championships in Tokyo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOJI SASAHARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (94%); SPAIN (93%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



855 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Obama Chooses Economist For Chief Regulatory Post

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
President Obama has nominated Howard Shelanski, the top economist at the Federal Trade Commission, to direct the White House office overseeing all federal regulations.
If confirmed, Mr. Shelanski will direct the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, a branch of the Office of Management and Budget. The Senate this week confirmed Sylvia Mathews Burwell to lead the budget office. 
Mr. Shelanksi, 48, an economist and lawyer who was a clerk for Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court, has taught at Georgetown University Law Center and at the University of California, Berkeley. He serves as the director of the trade commission's bureau of economics.
His previous posts include chief economist at the Federal Communications Commission and senior economist on the White House Council of Economic Advisers during the Clinton administration.
Although it is little known outside of government, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, (known as OIRA, pronounced ''oh, Ira'') is a powerful perch from which regulations from every agency of the executive branch are surveyed and, frequently, altered.
The last permanent director of the office, Cass R. Sunstein, a Harvard law professor and close friend of Mr. Obama, drew the ire of business, consumer and environmental advocates for what they called a heavy hand in rewriting or rejecting proposed federal rules. Mr. Sunstein said that his only mission was to apply common sense and cost-benefit analysis to rules that affected health, safety, the environment and the economy.
Mr. Sunstein stepped down last August to return to Harvard.
Government watchdog groups follow OIRA closely because of the power it wields over regulation. Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, said he was looking for assurances that Mr. Shelanski would not bow to industry pressure to soften important health and safety rules.
''Right now, OIRA is stalling food safety rules, worker safety rules and energy efficiency standards, in some cases flouting legal deadlines set by Congress and typically with no explanation,'' he said in a statement. ''OIRA's role has been to weaken regulations, never strengthen them. Senators should ask Shelanski if he will encourage strong, protective rules and end lengthy delays if confirmed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); FOOD SAFETY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANTONIN SCALIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



856 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Fire in Russian Psychiatric Hospital That Killed 38 Stirs Anger Over State's Neglect

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY and ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- When flames shot out of Psychiatric Hospital No. 14 at 2 a.m. on Friday, people in the village of Ramensky crept as close as they could, knowing that patients and medical staff were probably trapped inside. But fire raged through the 73-year-old wooden building, and there was nothing to put it out with.
''What could you do?'' one neighbor told a television crew. ''You couldn't help them with a bucket of water from a ditch. There was no hose, no hydrant.'' 
An alarm had sounded at the nearest fire station 30 miles away, across a rain-swollen canal with a ferry that will not operate until summer. So the firefighters took a long detour, and arrived an hour later.
By morning, the hospital was nothing but black walls and a row of bed frames filled with ashes. A spokeswoman for the Investigative Committee said many of the dead had been burned alive.
Friday's fire, which killed 38, was a reminder of the decay and neglect that plagues life in much of Russia, despite a decade-long, oil-fueled economic revival.
The rate of deaths in fires has been dropping gradually, but as of 2008 remained above 8 per 100,000 citizens, compared to roughly 1 per 100,000 in Greece, Denmark, the United States or the United Kingdom, according to a report by the Geneva Association, which analyzes international fire statistics.
The Russian government reported 12,000 deaths from fire in 2011; the same year, 2,500 people died in fires in the United States, which has twice the population of Russia.
Decrepit, underfinanced institutions have been the sites of some of Russia's worst tragedies in recent years. Yuri S. Savenko, the president of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia, said one-third of the country's psychiatric hospitals have been declared unfit, and that small hospitals in villages were especially neglected. Pay for staffers is miserly -- typically around $170 a month. Mr. Savenko said he was aware of 15 similar fires over the last year.
''This is not the first time it has happened,'' he said. ''It is really terrible when 38 people burn alive; it shocks you. But over the last 25 years these catastrophes have taken on a regular character.''
The fire captured the Kremlin's attention early in the day, and a stream of high-ranking officials were sent to the scene, about 70 miles north of Moscow. President Vladimir V. Putin, who once watched his summer cottage destroyed by fire while firefighters wrestled with their equipment, called it ''yet another reminder that safety must be taken seriously.''
But many, especially critics of the government, said Russia's bureaucracy has routinely halted attempts to establish effective oversight mechanisms.
''Criminal liability for what has happened can only be a result of a thorough and objective investigation of this drama,'' said Vladimir P. Lukin, Russia's human rights commissioner. ''However, the feeling remains that the Ramensky tragedy is in line with the context of an overall civic disease: indifference to all human problems but your own.''
Psychiatric Hospital No. 14 was a locked facility that housed people with schizophrenia, mental retardation and drug and alcohol addiction. Around half of them took powerful antipsychotic medications at bedtime to help them sleep, officials said.
Irina Gumennaya, a spokeswoman for the Russian Investigative Committee, said investigators believed the fire started on a sofa, perhaps by a recovering addict who smoked cigarettes surreptitiously.
A nurse woke and tried to evacuate the patients, but was able to lead only one woman, who had a diagnosis of schizophrenia, to safety. Another patient left on his own. The remaining 38 died of burns or carbon monoxide poisoning, many still in their beds. Among them, 11 had no known relatives, making DNA identification difficult, said Veronika Skvortsova, Russia's health minister.
''It was a fatal situation,'' Ms. Skvortsova said. ''The people who were next to the door were able to save themselves.''
Television crews swarmed Ramensky on Friday, and villagers, often refusing to give their names, complained that firefighters arrived late and unprepared.
Vadim Belovoshin, an emergency services official, acknowledged grimly that it had taken firefighters more than an hour to travel from their station, 30 miles away, because ''the ferry across the canal isn't working, so it was necessary to go around.''
But he suggested that the building would have burned anyway.
''You have to understand, this was a log house, with wooden walls and a wooden roof, covered with corrugated fiberglass, it catches fire immediately,'' Mr. Belovoshin told a news crew.
By evening, prosecutors had opened a criminal investigation, and a flurry of new initiatives had been announced.
Parliament ordered inspections of psychiatric hospitals, and the chief of Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry proposed fire safety ''subbotniki,'' in which citizens devote their holidays to days of mass, Soviet-style volunteer work.
Mr. Savenko, however, said he did not expect the Russian authorities to embrace systemic change.
''They're used to it,'' Mr. Savenko said. ''They know how to turn around and blame people around the edges, the little fish, as we say. It is right before our eyes, and of course the people are outraged; they understand everything correctly.
''But for now, tension will continue to build, because nothing will be done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Ramensky, a village north of Moscow, firefighters searched for bodies at the site of Psychiatric Hospital No. 14, which was destroyed by fire early Friday morning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAVEL SERGEYEV/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); FIRES (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); BURN INJURIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



857 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: A Look Into the Future of Midtown

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Robert A. M. Stern (''A Modern City in East Midtown?,'' Op-Ed, April 22) is right to question the sensibility of New York City's going ahead with increased building bulk in an area that is already at a very high density and has significant, historically important architecture. 
More than 150 years ago, the city had leadership that looked beyond the immediate future by doing exactly the opposite, creating a new Central Park with zero density in which squatters and close-knit dwellings were replaced by needed open space.
If the city had also done that 50 years ago instead of supporting the construction of the Pan Am Building behind Grand Central Terminal, we could have had a magnificent urban plaza providing prime open space in a very dense area.
The urge to upzone an already overcrowded city center, mostly for revenue purposes, needs to be strongly tempered by a more humanistic approach.
PETER SAMTON New York, April 25, 2013
The writer is the architect.
To the Editor:
A case against new buildings in East Midtown rests in part on a fearful supposition that the area's mass transit cannot transport people to and from potentially new megastructures. The concern is that if you build them, not that they won't come, but that they can't come.
But it is untrue to think that our city planners are sitting back and doing nothing to upgrade transit support systems. Beyond the new subway lines under construction that will redistribute people's movements significantly, changes are coming to Grand Central Terminal's underground.
The Long Island Rail Road's new East Side Access terminal will introduce numerous street connections and a possible new passageway from its own concourse directly to the Lexington Avenue subway so that the overcrowding above can be eased. And the main turnstile areas serving the Lex will be reconfigured along with new vertical connections added.
Rezoning doesn't happen in a vacuum; city planning accounts for many support systems beyond just buildings.
STEVEN P. SCALICI Staten Island, April 22, 2013
The writer is a transportation engineer.
To the Editor:
Robert A. M. Stern argues against additional construction in East Midtown, based on his claim that Midtown's infrastructure is simply too overburdened to support new office buildings. I live in West Midtown, and I think that the west side of Midtown is far more congested.
More broadly, Mr. Stern's density-phobia has been tried and found wanting. For nearly a century, politicians have used zoning to restrict urban development and used highways to develop suburbia, arguing that cities were too congested.
A result was that instead of being vanquished, congestion spread to suburbia, while restrictions on housing supply caused sky-high urban housing prices.
Why should we keep trying the failed policies of the past?
MICHAEL LEWYN New York, April 23, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JUNGYEON ROH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (88%); WRITERS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); HOME PRICES (70%); ZONING (69%); SUBURBS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



858 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: American Austerity, An Update

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Very bad policy. 

 BODY:
There is some tendency among economic commentators to think that austerity policies in a deeply depressed economy are mainly a European thing; you even find a fair number of people imagining that the United States is still engaged in fiscal stimulus. But the truth is that federal stimulus is years behind us, while state and local governments have cut back, so the overall story is one of fiscal contraction that's smaller than in Europe, but not by that much. 
To see what's going on, you need to do two things. First, you should include state and local; second, you shouldn't divide by GDP, because a depressed GDP can cause the spending/GDP ratio to rise even if spending falls. So it's useful to look at the ratio of overall government expenditure to potential GDP - what the economy would be producing if it were at full employment; CBO provides standard estimates of this number. And here's what we see:
Spending is down to what it was before the recession, and also significantly lower than it was under Reagan. Bear in mind that in the years since the recession began we've seen a significant number of boomers reach retirement age, which would ordinarily have led to rising spending, not to mention the effects of rising health care costs. Bear in mind also that the private sector is still deleveraging, which means that government should be spending more to help sustain the economy. So this is actually a picture of very bad policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



859 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: April 27

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Austerity pushback in Euyrope; U.S. weighs strategy on Syria; test for immigration overhaul, and Europe small companies face challenge. 

 BODY:
 NEWS After years of insisting that the primary cure for Europe's malaise is to slash spending, the champions of austerity, most notably Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, find themselves under intensified pressure to back off unpopular remedies and find some way to restore faltering growth to the world's largest economic bloc. On Friday, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain, who once promoted aggressive budget cuts, became the latest leader to reject European Union targets for reducing deficits. Andrew Higgins reports from Brussels.
As President Obama wrestles with how to respond to new assessments that Syria appears to have used chemical weapons, leaders in Israel say they will be watching for clues about how he might handle the Iranian nuclear issue in the future. In Syria's case, Mr. Obama has said that the use of chemical weapons would "change my calculus," but he has not said how. Even while Israel appeared to be egging on Mr. Obama toward taking action, with officials here saying Tuesday that it appeared sarin gas had been used by the Syrian government, those officials also conceded that none of the military options were good. David Sanger and Jodi Rudoren report from Jerusalem. 
In Washington, the biggest immigration overhaul in decades would tighten border security between Mexico and the United States to stem the flow of illegal crossings. But there is another border making the task all the more challenging: Mexico's porous boundary with Central America, where an increasing number of migrants heading to the United States cross freely into Mexico under the gaze of the Mexican authorities. So many Central Americans are fleeing the violence, crime and economic stagnation of their homes that American officials have encountered a tremendous spike in migrants making their way through Mexico to the United States. Randal C. Archibold reports from Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico.
Smaller companies that provide most of the jobs in Europe face an ever more difficult struggle to win customers and get bank loans, according to a survey from the European Central Bank on Friday that contributed to a picture of spreading economic stagnation in the euro zone. Small and midsize companies in South European countries like Spain and Italy reported the most trouble making a profit, maintaining revenue and getting loans, according to the E.C.B. survey of 7,500 firms. Underscoring the plight of people in Southern Europe, the Spanish government said Friday that economic growth in coming years could be even worse than previously thought. But the survey also pointed to signs of trouble in Northern Europe, further raising expectations that the E.C.B. might be all but compelled to cut its main interest rate in the coming week. Jack Ewing reports from Frankfurt, Germany.
After opening hundreds of stores in China in recent years, some watch companies are facing an inventory glut and cutting back their retailing presence there. The downsizing comes as shipments of timepieces to China from Switzerland, the world's dominant luxury watch production center, have fallen below the levels of two years ago, after setting a record in 2012. Swiss watch exports to mainland China dropped 26 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, to 323 million Swiss francs, or $343 million, according to data released in the past week by the Swiss Federation of the Watch Industry. Exports to Hong Kong fell 9 percent, to 910 million francs. Raphael Minder reports from Basel, Switzerland.
 ARTS The performance artist Marina Abramovic is collaborating on a new work, "Boléro," which will have its premiere on Thursday at the Palais Garnier on a program that includes Maurice Béjart's "Firebird" and versions of "Afternoon of a Faun" by Nijinsky and Jerome Robbins. It might seem strange for Ms. Abramovic, 66, the groundbreaking artist who almost single-handedly brought performance art to the general public's attention, to be working on a dance. But on her second day of rehearsals in Paris, she was embracing the role with her characteristic enthusiasm. Roslyn Sulcas reports from Paris.
 SPORTS The juggernaut meets the road warriors as rugby's Heineken European Cup reaches its semifinal stage this weekend. No team has ever made the final four more impressively than the French club Clermont Auvergne, which won all six pool matches - including home and away defeats of the reigning champion, Leinster - then smashed compatriot Montpellier, 36-14, in the quarterfinals. It also has a qualified version of home advantage Saturday, when it plays Munster on French soil at Montpellier.Huw Richards reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); RETAILERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); ANGELA MERKEL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (57%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); SYRIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



860 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Retains Allure as Retail Mecca

BYLINE: BETTINA WASSENER


HIGHLIGHT: High rents are not detracting from Hong Kong&#8217;s ability to lure high-end retailers, especially with a flood of mainland Chinese shoppers spending heavily in the city. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Amid bouquets, camera-wielding photographers and a bustling crowd of curious onlookers, Uniqlo opened a flagship store in the heart of one of Hong Kong's busiest shopping districts on Friday - underlining the city's unrelenting attraction for retailers seeking exposure to the giant mainland Chinese market.
It took barely half an hour for the store - which spans three floors and features suspended mannequins moving up and down along a central light well - to reach a semblance of normality, with shoppers eagerly snapping up the colorful casual clothes for which Uniqlo, part of the Japanese company Fast Retailing, is best known. 
With a floor space of more than 37,500 square feet, or about 3,500 square meters, the store is a far cry from the far smaller shops that Uniqlo began with in the 1980s. It is also part of Fast Retailing's strategy of rapid expansion outside Japan, whose economy has been beset by deflation and anemic growth for years. 
About 25 percent of the 1,137 stores Uniqlo operated as of last August were outside Japan - 145 of them in China, where the first outlet was opened in 2002. By next August, this will have risen to about 35 percent, with 225 stores in mainland China, Fast Retailing forecasts. The aim, company executives said, is to open 100 Uniqlo stores in China each year, and to have 3,000 stores in across China in 10 years' time. 
Hong Kong is a must-be-there location for international retailers - despite the fact that retail, office and residential rents are among the highest in the world. 
Uniqlo did not say how much it was paying for the new Hong Kong store - its 16th in the city - which is located in the neighborhood of Causeway Bay.
According to a report by the real estate services firm CBRE, however, Causeway Bay is the most expensive area in Hong Kong, with an average rent of 786 Hong Kong dollars, or $101, per square foot per month. The most expensive locations within the neighborhood, which is home to scores of high-end clothing and jewelry stores and some of Hong Kong's largest shopping malls, can be more than three times as expensive to rent, CBRE said.
Still, retailers keep coming: Gap and American Eagle Outfitters opened shops in Hong Kong in 2011, and Forever21, another popular U.S. brand, opened a large store just a few steps from the new Uniqlo outlet last year. Abercrombie & Fitch's flagship store, in the heart of the financial district of Central, opened last August. And Topshop, a British brand, is scheduled to open a large shop this summer, also in Central.
The reason for all this activity is not so much Hong Kong's population of 7 million, but the Chinese shoppers who flock here to capitalize on Hong Kong's lower taxes. They are also drawn by the perception that what they are buying here is, well, the genuine article. 
Their numbers have ballooned - from 6.8 million in 2002 to nearly 35 million in 2012 - and the growth is likely to continue. 
No wonder the retail scene, too, has swelled.

        
China's Economy: Apocalypse Soon?
        
Mainlander Shoppers Met With Protests in Hong Kong
        
Has Hong Kong Reached Its 'Tipping Point' as a World City?
        
Gallows Humor, and Smog, Engulf China
        
Macau's Gaming Take: Sign of Chinese Emigration?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TRENDS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); DEFLATION (67%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Luxury Goods; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Shopping and Retail; Shopping Centers and Malls; Abercrombie & Fitch Co; American Eagle Outfitters Inc; CBRE Group Inc; Forever 21; Gap Inc; Topshop; Uniqlo; China; Hong Kong; Abercrombie & Fitch Co|ANF|NYSE; American Eagle Outfitters Inc|AEO|NYSE; CBRE Group Inc|CBG|NYSE; Gap Inc|GPS|NYSE; Business; Featured; Property

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (57%); FAST RETAILING CO LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Abercrombie & Fitch Co; American Eagle Outfitters Inc; CBRE Group Inc; Forever 21; Gap Inc; Topshop; Uniqlo

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); AEO (NYSE) (57%); 9983 (TSE) (57%) Abercrombie & Fitch Co; ANF; NYSE; Abercrombie & Fitch Co; ANF; NYSE; American Eagle Outfitters Inc; AEO; NYSE; Abercrombie & Fitch Co; ANF; NYSE; American Eagle Outfitters Inc; AEO; NYSE; CBRE Group Inc; CBG; NYSE; Abercrombie & Fitch Co; ANF; NYSE; American Eagle Outfitters Inc; AEO; NYSE; CBRE Group Inc; CBG; NYSE; Gap Inc; GPS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%) China; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



861 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: The Great Degrader

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Don&#8217;t forget the lies. 

 BODY:
I've been focused on economic policy lately, so I sort of missed the big push to rehabilitate Bush's image; also, as a premature anti-Bushist who pointed out how terrible a president he was back when everyone else was praising him as a Great Leader, I'm kind of worn out on the subject. 
But it does need to be said: he was a terrible president, arguably the worst ever, and not just for the reasons many others are pointing out.
From what I've read, most of the pushback against revisionism focuses on just how bad Bush's policies were, from the disaster in Iraq to the way he destroyed FEMA, from the way he squandered a budget surplus to the way he drove up Medicare's costs. And all of that is fair.
But I think there was something even bigger, in some ways, than his policy failures: Bush brought an unprecedented level of systematic dishonesty to American political life, and we may never recover.
Think about his two main "achievements", if you want to call them that: the tax cuts and the Iraq war, both of which continue to cast long shadows over our nation's destiny. The key thing to remember is that both were sold with lies.
I suppose one could make an argument for the kind of tax cuts Bush rammed through - tax cuts that strongly favored the wealthy and significantly increased inequality. But we shouldn't forget that Bush never admitted that his tax cuts did, in fact, favor the wealthy. Instead, his administration canceled the practice of making assessments of the distributional effects of tax changes, and in their selling of the cuts offered what amounted to an expert class in how to lie with statistics. Basically, every time the Bushies came out with a report, you knew that it was going to involve some kind of fraud, and the only question was which kind and where.
And no, this wasn't standard practice before. Politics ain't beanbag and all that, but the president as con man was a new character in American life.
Even more important, Bush lied us into war. Let's repeat that: he lied us into war. I know, the apologists will say that "everyone" believed Saddam had WMD, but the truth is that even the category "WMD" was a con game, lumping together chemical weapons with nukes in an illegitimate way. And any appearance of an intelligence consensus before the invasion was manufactured: dissenting voices were suppressed, as anyone who was reading Knight-Ridder (now McClatchy) knew at the time.
Why did the Bush administration want war? There probably wasn't a single reason, but can we really doubt at this point that it was in part about wagging the dog? And right there you have something that should block Bush from redemption of any kind, ever: he misled us into a war that probably killed hundreds of thousands of people, and he did it in part for political reasons.
There was a time when Americans expected their leaders to be more or less truthful. Nobody expected them to be saints, but we thought we could trust them not to lie about fundamental matters. That time is now behind us - and it was Bush who did it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); IRAQ WAR (69%); MEDICARE (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (50%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



862 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2297 words

HEADLINE: No Rich Child Left Behind

BYLINE: SEAN F. REARDON


HIGHLIGHT: Family income is now a better predictor of children&#8217;s success in school than race. 

 BODY:
Here's a fact that may not surprise you: the children of the rich perform better in school, on average, than children from middle-class or poor families. Students growing up in richer families have better grades and higher standardized test scores, on average, than poorer students; they also have higher rates of participation in extracurricular activities and school leadership positions, higher graduation rates and higher rates of college enrollment and completion.
Whether you think it deeply unjust, lamentable but inevitable, or obvious and unproblematic, this is hardly news. It is true in most societies and has been true in the United States for at least as long as we have thought to ask the question and had sufficient data to verify the answer.
What is news is that in the United States over the last few decades these differences in educational success between high- and lower-income students have grown substantially. 
One way to see this is to look at the scores of rich and poor students on standardized math and reading tests over the last 50 years. When I did this using information from a dozen large national studies conducted between 1960 and 2010, I found that the rich-poor gap in test scores is about 40 percent larger now than it was 30 years ago.
To make this trend concrete, consider two children, one from a family with income of $165,000 and one from a family with income of $15,000. These incomes are at the 90th and 10th percentiles of the income distribution nationally, meaning that 10 percent of children today grow up in families with incomes below $15,000 and 10 percent grow up in families with incomes above $165,000.
In the 1980s, on an 800-point SAT-type test scale, the average difference in test scores between two such children would have been about 90 points; today it is 125 points. This is almost twice as large as the 70-point test score gap between white and black children. Family income is now a better predictor of children's success in school than race.
The same pattern is evident in other, more tangible, measures of educational success, like college completion. In a study similar to mine, Martha J. Bailey and Susan M. Dynarski, economists at the University of Michigan, found that the proportion of students from upper-income families who earn a bachelor's degree has increased by 18 percentage points over a 20-year period, while the completion rate of poor students has grown by only 4 points.
In a more recent study, my graduate students and I found that 15 percent of high-income students from the high school class of 2004 enrolled in a highly selective college or university, while fewer than 5 percent of middle-income and 2 percent of low-income students did.
These widening disparities are not confined to academic outcomes: new research by the Harvard political scientist Robert D. Putnam and his colleagues shows that the rich-poor gaps in student participation in sports, extracurricular activities, volunteer work and church attendance have grown sharply as well.
In San Francisco this week, more than 14,000 educators and education scholars have gathered for the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association. The theme this year is familiar: Can schools provide children a way out of poverty?
We are still talking about this despite decades of clucking about the crisis in American education and wave after wave of school reform.Whatever we've been doing in our schools, it hasn't reduced educational inequality between children from upper- and lower-income families.
Part of knowing what we should do about this is understanding how and why these educational disparities are growing. For the past few years, alongside other scholars, I have been digging into historical data to understand just that. The results of this research don't always match received wisdom or playground folklore.
The most potent development over the past three decades is that the test scores of children from high-income families have increased very rapidly. Before 1980, affluent students had little advantage over middle-class students in academic performance; most of the socioeconomic disparity in academics was between the middle class and the poor. But the rich now outperform the middle class by as much as the middle class outperform the poor. Just as the incomes of the affluent have grown much more rapidly than those of the middle class over the last few decades, so, too, have most of the gains in educational success accrued to the children of the rich.
Before we can figure out what's happening here, let's dispel a few myths.
The income gap in academic achievement is not growing because the test scores of poor students are dropping or because our schools are in decline. In fact, average test scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, the so-called Nation's Report Card, have been rising - substantially in math and very slowly in reading - since the 1970s. The average 9-year-old today has math skills equal to those her parents had at age 11, a two-year improvement in a single generation. The gains are not as large in reading and they are not as large for older students, but there is no evidence that average test scores have declined over the last three decades for any age or economic group.
The widening income disparity in academic achievement is not a result of widening racial gaps in achievement, either. The achievement gaps between blacks and whites, and Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites have been narrowing slowly over the last two decades, trends that actually keep the yawning gap between higher- and lower-income students from getting even wider. If we look at the test scores of white students only, we find the same growing gap between high- and low-income children as we see in the population as a whole.
It may seem counterintuitive, but schools don't seem to produce much of the disparity in test scores between high- and low-income students. We know this because children from rich and poor families score very differently on school readiness tests when they enter kindergarten, and this gap grows by less than 10 percent between kindergarten and high school. There is some evidence that achievement gaps between high- and low-income students actually narrow during the nine-month school year, but they widen again in the summer months.
That isn't to say that there aren't important differences in quality between schools serving low- and high-income students - there certainly are - but they appear to do less to reinforce the trends than conventional wisdom would have us believe.
If not the usual suspects, what's going on? It boils down to this: The academic gap is widening because rich students are increasingly entering kindergarten much better prepared to succeed in school than middle-class students. This difference in preparation persists through elementary and high school.
My research suggests that one part of the explanation for this is rising income inequality. As you may have heard, the incomes of the rich have grown faster over the last 30 years than the incomes of the middle class and the poor. Money helps families provide cognitively stimulating experiences for their young children because it provides more stable home environments, more time for parents to read to their children, access to higher-quality child care and preschool and - in places like New York City, where 4-year-old children take tests to determine entry into gifted and talented programs - access to preschool test preparation tutors or the time to serve as tutors themselves.
But rising income inequality explains, at best, half of the increase in the rich-poor academic achievement gap. It's not just that the rich have more money than they used to, it's that they are using it differently. This is where things get really interesting.
High-income families are increasingly focusing their resources - their money, time and knowledge of what it takes to be successful in school - on their children's cognitive development and educational success. They are doing this because educational success is much more important than it used to be, even for the rich.
With a college degree insufficient to ensure a high-income job, or even a job as a barista, parents are now investing more time and money in their children's cognitive development from the earliest ages. It may seem self-evident that parents with more resources are able to invest more - more of both money and of what Mr. Putnam calls "'Goodnight Moon' time" - in their children's development. But even though middle-class and poor families are also increasing the time and money they invest in their children, they are not doing so as quickly or as deeply as the rich.
The economists Richard J. Murnane and Greg J. Duncan report that from 1972 to 2006 high-income families increased the amount they spent on enrichment activities for their children by 150 percent, while the spending of low-income families grew by 57 percent over the same time period. Likewise, the amount of time parents spend with their children has grown twice as fast since 1975 among college-educated parents as it has among less-educated parents. The economists Garey Ramey and Valerie A. Ramey of the University of California, San Diego, call this escalation of early childhood investment "the rug rat race," a phrase that nicely captures the growing perception that early childhood experiences are central to winning a lifelong educational and economic competition.
It's not clear what we should do about all this. Partly that's because much of our public conversation about education is focused on the wrong culprits: we blame failing schools and the behavior of the poor for trends that are really the result of deepening income inequality and the behavior of the rich.
We're also slow to understand what's happening, I think, because the nature of the problem - a growing educational gap between the rich and the middle class - is unfamiliar. After all, for much of the last 50 years our national conversation about educational inequality has focused almost exclusively on strategies for reducing inequalities between the educational successes of the poor and the middle class, and it has relied on programs aimed at the poor, like Head Start and Title I.
We've barely given a thought to what the rich were doing. With the exception of our continuing discussion about whether the rising costs of higher education are pricing the middle class out of college, we don't have much practice talking about what economists call "upper-tail inequality" in education, much less success at reducing it.
Meanwhile, not only are the children of the rich doing better in school than even the children of the middle class, but the changing economy means that school success is increasingly necessary to future economic success, a worrisome mutual reinforcement of trends that is making our society more socially and economically immobile.
We need to start talking about this. Strangely, the rapid growth in the rich-poor educational gap provides a ray of hope: if the relationship between family income and educational success can change this rapidly, then it is not an immutable, inevitable pattern. What changed once can change again. Policy choices matter more than we have recently been taught to think.
So how can we move toward a society in which educational success is not so strongly linked to family background? Maybe we should take a lesson from the rich and invest much more heavily as a society in our children's educational opportunities from the day they are born. Investments in early-childhood education pay very high societal dividends. That means investing in developing high-quality child care and preschool that is available to poor and middle-class children. It also means recruiting and training a cadre of skilled preschool teachers and child care providers. These are not new ideas, but we have to stop talking about how expensive and difficult they are to implement and just get on with it.
But we need to do much more than expand and improve preschool and child care. There is a lot of discussion these days about investing in teachers and "improving teacher quality," but improving the quality of our parenting and of our children's earliest environments may be even more important. Let's invest in parents so they can better invest in their children.
This means finding ways of helping parents become better teachers themselves. This might include strategies to support working families so that they can read to their children more often.. It also means expanding programs like the Nurse-Family Partnership that have proved to be effective at helping single parents educate their children; but we also need to pay for research to develop new resources for single parents.
It might also mean greater business and government support for maternity and paternity leave and day care so that the middle class and the poor can get some of the educational benefits that the early academic intervention of the rich provides their children. Fundamentally, it means rethinking our still-persistent notion that educational problems should be solved by schools alone.
The more we do to ensure that all children have similar cognitively stimulating early childhood experiences, the less we will have to worry about failing schools. This in turn will enable us to let our schools focus on teaching the skills - how to solve complex problems, how to think critically and how to collaborate - essential to a growing economy and a lively democracy.
Sean F. Reardon is a professor of education and sociology at Stanford. 

        
Share the Wealth
        
Africa's Girl Power
        
What Do Scientific Studies Show?
        
Rape and Justice in the Civil War
        
A Tax System Stacked Against the 99 Percent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); STATISTICS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%) Blacks; Children and Childhood; Education; Income Inequality; Research; The Great Divide

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013



863 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BIDWELL, LISA

 BODY:
BIDWELL--Lisa, of Newport, RI, died peacefully at home on April 6th, a year after her incurable cancer had been diagnosed. Lisa was born January 12, 1952, Lisa Kerr Grimmelmann, in New York City and grew up in White Plains, New York. 
A graduate of Bradford College and the New School for Social Research, from which she also received her master's degree, Lisa was for many years the director of development at the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House in New York City. In 1995 she and her husband, Miles Bidwell, founded an economics consulting firm which they ran until last summer. Lisa and Miles sailed their boat across the Atlantic three times, accompanied only by their beloved Maine coon cat, Craig. Lisa was an accomplished sailor, skier, and figure skater. Lisa was a member of The Colonial Dames of America, The Daughters of the American Revolution, The National Society Magna Charta Dames, The Plantagenet Society, and the Colonial Order of the Crown. Lisa was greatly loved and admired and will be deeply missed by her family and her many friends. She is survived by her husband, her parents, Frances and Ihler Grimmelmann, her brother, Erik Grimmelmann, her sister, Ellen Adler, and by her nephew and her two nieces. No memorial is planned. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests that contributions be made in Lisa's memory to the Redwood Library and Athenaeum, an organization that Lisa cherished. Contributions to the Redwood (50 Bellevue Ave., Newport, RI 02840) will be placed in the Lisa Bidwell Memorial Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CANCER (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (74%); CATS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



864 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PEAK, KENNETH R

 BODY:
PEAK--Kenneth R. Kenneth R. Peak, passed away Friday, the 19th of April 2013, at age 67 after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Ken was the son of Harold Raymond "Dutch" and Mary Rose Peak. He was born the 17th of July 1945, in Cleves, Ohio, and grew up in nearby Frogtown. Ken was a 1963 graduate of Taylor High School and went on to earn a BS in Physics from Ohio University in 1967 and a MBA from Columbia University in 1972. He proudly served as an Officer in the United States Navy from 1968 to 1971. Ken Peak was much more than an accomplished businessman. 
Ken began his energy career in 1973 as a Commercial Banker in First National Bank of Chicago's energy group. His biggest success was Contango, an Oil & Gas Company that Ken started in 1999 with nothing but a desire to build a successful business for himself and his shareholders. From this idea, he built a very successful oil and gas exploration and production company, which he served as the CEO and Chairman. Prior to Contango, Ken served as a Treasurer at Tosco Corporation in 1980 and CFO at Texas International Company ('TIC') in 1982. Ken's tenure with TIC included serving as the President of TIPCO, the domestic operating subsidiary of TIC's natural gas and oil operations. Ken served as the CFO of Forest Oil Corporation from 1988 to 1989 and as an Investment Banker with Howard Weil from 1989 to 1990. He served as the President of Peak Enernomics Inc., an oil and gas consulting firm that Ken formed in 1990. Ken was also appointed to serve on the Board of Directors of AKM Enterprise Inc., NL Industries Inc., Amerac Energy Corp., and Patterson-UTI Energy. In more recent years, Ken served as the President and CEO of Contango ORE and as the Chairman of the Board for OnKure, an oncology drug company that he helped create. Besides building businesses, he built friendships that lasted a lifetime; once you were a friend of Ken's, his loyalty, good counsel, and companionship would become your biggest asset. Ken was widely known as a "character" in the business. He loved going to work and never had a bad day. He thought for himself and never had to check with others to make decisions as he instinctively knew what was right. Ken was a wise man, a lifelong learner and an avid reader of books, newspapers and economics newsletters. He was born with a funny bone and always tried to see a funny side of everything. His heart was the purest. Ken used his fortune to help others, and he never gave in a showy way. As a symbol of his generosity Ken and Donna Peak made a substantial donation to Methodist Hospital in Houston to established the Kenneth R. Peak Brain and Pituitary Tumor Treatment Center to continue the fight with brain illness. Ken was a man who chose to be happy all the time and he will be remembered as such. Ken Peak is irreplaceable. Ken is survived by his loving wife, Donna; daughter Mariclare Elko and husband, Chris; son Joe Peak; grandchildren Jack, Madeline, and Charlie Elko; sister Sandy Peak; brother Mike and wife, Jane Peak; four nieces; seven nephews; two aunts; and numerous cousins. The family asks that in lieu of flowers or other donations, a donation can be made to support the Kenneth R. Peak Brain and Pituitary Tumor Treatment Center by making a contribution to the Methodist Hospital Foundation. Donations should be sent to David Baskin, M.D. at 1656 North Blvd., Houston, TX 77006. Services in Houston are with Geo. H. Lewis & Sons-The Funeral Directors Since 1936, 713-789-3005. www.geohlewis.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BRAIN CANCER (89%); CANCER (89%); BRAIN (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); NAVIES (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (68%); OIL EXPLORATION (68%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%)

COMPANY: TOSCO CORP (68%); FOREST OIL CORP (66%); PETROCORP INC (65%); NL INDUSTRIES INC (65%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (56%); PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY INC (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); US NAVY (57%)

TICKER: FST (NYSE) (66%); NL (NYSE) (65%); PTEN (NASDAQ) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (66%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (66%); NAICS423710 HARDWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (65%); NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



865 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW | NEW JERSEY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: The Magic That Storytelling Can Do

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SOMMERS

 BODY:
The imperceptible magic that pervades human existence and the power of myth to assuage sorrow are invoked by the playwright Stefanie Zadravec as she entwines the lives of strangers in ''The Electric Baby,'' a gently touching new drama at the Two River Theater Company in Red Bank.
When spectators walk into the Two River's 110-seat Marion Huber Theater, they discover Natalia, a pretty Romanian immigrant, already cozily seated in a rocking chair beside a wicker cradle. Natalia's voluminous crocheting coils around the bassinet, which strangely sprouts tubes or wires and steadily radiates a glow. 
Natalia murmurs fondly to her unseen child and hums along to European folk music. Eventually she puts aside her crochet hook, recommends a home remedy for coughing to audience members, and sweetly beguiles them into the heightened world of the 100-minute play, which occurs in present-day Pittsburgh.
Dozens of glistening cords that crisscross in different directions above the characters in the spare, fluent setting, abstractly designed by Mimi Lien, suggest the various connections that the people in this play will make.
Suddenly, Helen, a middle-aged woman in a foul mood, storms out of the surrounding darkness, her rash action causing a taxi to crash. Ambimbola, the cabdriver, a cheerful Nigerian fellow who is known as Bimbo, slowly recovers in the hospital. But Dan, one of two boisterous young people in the back of the cab, has died. The other passenger is Rozie, a truculent soul who soon is haunted by her dead friend, whose face and stuttering speech materialize in other men she encounters.
Rozie, an unemployed waitress and part-time prostitute, has briefly done business with Helen's forlorn husband, Reed. Also hurt in the crash, Reed is nursing injuries from the accident as well as from a troubled marriage.
Reed tentatively reaches out again to Rozie even as Helen, guilt-stricken, clumsily tries to make amends with Bimbo, who is revealed to be Natalia's spouse and the father of the luminous infant whose ineffable yet benevolent presence brightens the drama's melancholy circumstances.
Both Natalia and Bimbo are storytellers who relate through mystical narratives how they separately came to America and met by chance. As they recount a number of mythological tales in which tragedies are transformed into legends that comfort those suffering earthly loss, it becomes apparent that they already understand that their frail baby ''who glows like the moon'' is not long for this world. A lingering sorrow that has long soured Helen's life and marriage to Reed also is woven into the delicate fabric of the play, which quietly concludes on a hopeful note for most of the characters.
A mix of expressionism and magical realism, ''The Electric Baby'' does not explain the mysteries that it evokes. But who can account for the odd ways in which people meet and affect the existence of others? The compassion in Ms. Zadravec's writing is obvious even when her story tends to be elusive in its details.
The play, which had its premiere at the Quantum Theater in Pittsburgh last year, is capably directed here with a confident hand by May Adrales. The easy transitions of the drama's more than 20 scenes are aided by Gina Scherr's lighting design as well as by the piano-cello compositions and urban sound effects credited to Nathan A. Roberts and Charles Coes.
The actors provide effective performances. Antoinette LaVecchia lends her aphoristic Natalia a warm, forthright quality, while Oberon K. A. Adjepong's Bimbo remains sanguine in spite of his pains. Lizbeth Mackay, all frizzy hair and querulous tones as the irritating Helen, somehow is able to construe her woeful character sympathetically. A husky-voiced Steven Skybell manfully conveys Reed's loneliness.
The angry, foul-mouthed Rozie is sketchily drawn, but Lucy DeVito combines an aggressive manner with a sad look in her eyes to suggest the character's ambivalent spirit. Dan and two other young men who briefly figure into the story are even less defined by the author, but Nick Lehane plays them nicely.
''The Electric Baby,'' by Stefanie Zadravec, is at the Two River Theater Company, 21 Bridge Avenue, Red Bank, through May 5. Information: (732) 345-1400 or trtc.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lucy DeVito plays Rozie and Nick Lehane is Dan, two passengers in a taxi driven by Ambimbola, who is known as Bimbo and is played by Oberon K. A. Adjepong. Bimbo is the father of the title character in ''The Electric Baby.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (87%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (75%); MYTHOLOGY (73%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



866 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: More Than Problem-Solving

BYLINE: By ROBERT MUSSLEWHITE. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
MY parents raised us in Dallas, where my father practiced law, first at a large firm, then at his own practice. My parents met while attending a Spanish-language summer program in college. I have a sister who is seven years younger.
My mother is Dutch, so I didn't grow up around her family, but my grandfather would often mail me games and puzzles, starting my lifelong love of solving problems. I would figure them out and mail the answers back to him in the Netherlands. He turned 100 last year, and we attended his birthday celebration there. 
I started swimming competitively at a young age but still found time, during vacations in high school, to scoop ice cream at a local ice cream parlor, deliver magazines and give swimming lessons.
I attended Princeton and was a member of its swim team. One time, while our team was competing in the N.C.A.A. championships, I substituted as anchor of a relay race for an injured teammate and was almost caught by our opponents. We won, but that close call showed me how discipline and hard work could put you in a position to be lucky.
After graduating with an economics degree in 1992, I spent a year skiing in Colorado. I moved to Crested Butte and got a job in accounting. I spent my paycheck on rent and a ski pass and applied to law schools. The next year, I enrolled at Harvard Law School, where I met my future wife, Jeannie. After I graduated in 1996, I returned to Dallas to be a clerk for a Federal District Court judge. I had always assumed that, like my father, I would practice law, but Jeannie helped me realize that I do best around people, building teams and relationships, rather than being immersed in legal research.
I joined McKinsey & Company in 1997, working on a study of the petroleum industry, first in Dallas and then Houston. In 1999, I transferred with McKinsey to Amsterdam, where Jeannie and I lived for two years. When we returned to the United States in 2001, we moved to Washington, where we have since expanded our family to include three children.
At the Washington office of McKinsey, I continued to work with a range of clients in consumer products and other industries. I loved the problem-solving. But management consultants figure out the solutions and generally leave the implementation to others. I wanted to help drive the solutions through to completion.
In 2003, I joined the Advisory Board Company, working first as its executive director of strategic planning and new product development. I moved up to the company's business intelligence unit, becoming executive vice president for general management.
Our principal clients are hospitals and health care systems, where we provide strategic guidance and analytic software and help them improve the quality of services they deliver at a lower cost. I was named chief executive in September 2008, just as the financial recession began. Despite that, we have grown steadily and now serve some 3,000 health care institutions. It has been very satisfying to work with health care leaders like the Cleveland Clinic and the Mayo Clinic and to work with other institutions to reduce hospital readmissions at a time when this issue is receiving national attention. We have also been branching out to work with higher-education institutions. We now have about 2,300 employees.
We are also committed to our communities. Staff members last year worked close to 20,000 free hours on community service projects. I serve on the board for Miriam's Kitchen, a nonprofit organization in Washington that is dedicated to ending chronic homelessness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROBERT MUSSLEWHITE: C.E.O. of the Advisory Board Company, Washington AGE 43 RELAXES BY Hiking with his children BEST VACATION Skiing anywhere in the Rockies with fresh powder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADVISORY BOARD COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWIMMING (90%); SPORTS (90%); PARENTING (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); EXECUTIVES (84%); CHILDREN (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); SKIING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (69%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); HEALTH CARE (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BOARD CHANGES (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); NEW PRODUCTS (60%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); ADVISORY BOARD CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: ABCO (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%) TEXAS, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



867 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1953 words

HEADLINE: Many Openings at State Agency Go to Those With Ties to Cuomo

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- New York State's economic development agency created a new position last June, and then found a candidate to fill it: a young man named Willard Younger, who had just graduated from Colgate University with a degree in classics and religion. He became a special projects associate, at a salary of $45,000 a year, according to state personnel records.
His father, Stephen P. Younger, is a lawyer and power broker in legal circles who was a member of one of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's transition teams. He has also donated $26,000 to Mr. Cuomo's campaigns over the years, disclosure records show.
The next month, the agency hired 23-year-old Andrew Moelis, a University of Pennsylvania graduate, for another new position, strategic planning associate, at a salary of $75,000 a year. 
Shortly before Mr. Moelis's first day of work, his father, Ron Moelis, a prominent real estate developer, gave $25,000 to Mr. Cuomo's re-election campaign, according to the records.
Since taking office in 2011, Mr. Cuomo has repeatedly pledged to bring a new approach to Albany, where politicians of both major parties have long rewarded supporters with jobs that are not open to the general public.
But an investigation by The New York Times into hiring by the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, shows how Mr. Cuomo's administration has engaged in some of the same patronage practices that have often prevailed here.
The investigation was based on personnel records obtained through a Freedom of Information request, as well as campaign finance and other state records. Numerous interviews were conducted with state officials, employees and outside experts.
While some of the new employees at Empire State had experience in economic development, others did not. Some of the jobs were not open to competition, and were filled with little input from the agency itself.
Empire State has also hired friends of Mr. Cuomo who may help form his political brain trust should he decide to run for president in 2016.
James P. Rubin, a former State Department spokesman, was hired at the agency in 2011 as counselor on competitiveness and international affairs, with a salary of $150,000 a year. Mr. Rubin's appointment was seen by political consultants as a move by Mr. Cuomo to add a foreign policy hand to his stable.
Empire State hired 49 people in the first 20 months of the Cuomo administration, according to personnel records obtained by The Times. Nearly a third were the governor's political associates, donors and friends, or their relatives, the records and interviews show.
At least seven of the new hires with connections were placed in newly created positions.
Mr. Cuomo's office said that openings at Empire State were posted on many popular job sites in 2011 and 2012, including Monster.com.
After repeated requests for evidence of the postings, the office on Saturday morning provided receipts for those of six jobs advertised on Web sites in 2011 and 2012.
The office also said openings at Empire State were advertised extensively on job banks and Web sites run by the state government.
In a statement, the office said that questions about Empire State's hiring practices amounted to an attempt to ''create a scandal.''
''We have launched marketing, advertising and outreach campaigns that are unprecedented for state government,'' the statement said, adding that such questions ''unfairly tarnish the reputation of those who have taken a chance by entering public service instead of joining or remaining in the private sector.''
The administration has also said it had recently retained a consultant to improve recruitment of candidates for state agencies.
When Mr. Cuomo announced in October that he was seeking to hire a consultant, he declared that he was handling the filling of jobs differently than his predecessors.
''The old appointments process was disjointed and politicized, and it lacked access to the tools used by today's recruitment professionals,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.
At a time when New York's unemployment rate is higher than the national average, Empire State is supposed to play an important role in helping the administration bolster the state's economy. It offers loans, tax credits and grants aimed at attracting and keeping businesses.
With about 300 employees, Empire State is one of the smaller state agencies. But governors of both parties have often used it for patronage because legally, it is a public authority -- nominally independent of the state government, though controlled by the governor.
As a result, its workings are not subject to as much oversight as agencies within the executive branch itself.
Still, under the state's Public Authorities Reform Act, Empire State board members have a fiduciary duty to the mission of the agency, not to outside political considerations.
Former Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, a Democrat who spearheaded the act, said the Cuomo administration's hiring practices had undercut reform efforts.
''Authorities are not part of the executive branch, and their leadership is legally required to make judgments in the public interest, not in the interest of the executive branch,'' Mr. Brodsky said.
Mr. Cuomo appointed a political ally, Kenneth Adams, as Empire State's president in January 2011.
Mr. Adams previously ran the New York State Business Council, the leading advocacy group for business in the state, when it provided an important endorsement for Mr. Cuomo in the 2010 campaign. The Business Council has also collected money from contributors to help finance the Committee to Save New York, a lobbying and advocacy group set up with Mr. Cuomo's blessing to promote his agenda.
Mr. Adams declined to comment.
Some of the new employees at Empire State seem to have benefited more than once from their connections to the Cuomo administration, according to interviews, state records and résumés on LinkedIn, the business social-networking Web site.
Mr. Younger, the recent Colgate graduate hired by the agency in June, had summer jobs in Mr. Cuomo's office in 2011, as well as in 2010, when Mr. Cuomo was attorney general.
His father, Stephen, is a past president of the state bar association and a partner at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in Manhattan. In addition to serving as a member of one of Mr. Cuomo's transition teams after he was elected governor, Stephen Younger was a transition director for Mr. Cuomo after he was elected attorney general in 2006.
Neither Younger responded to several messages seeking comment. Josh Vlasto, Mr. Cuomo's chief of staff, said he knew Willard Younger personally, praising him as a ''tireless and exceptional worker.''
Mr. Moelis, who was hired as the $75,000-a-year strategic planning associate, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 2010 with a degree in Assyriology, the study of ancient Mesopotamia, according to his résumé on LinkedIn. He worked for Citigroup as an analyst before being hired by Empire State.
Asked about Mr. Moelis's qualifications, Mr. Cuomo's office said that he had turned down an offer to stay at Citigroup before joining the agency.
Still, his ties to the administration run deep. His father, and his father's real-estate firm, have donated a total of $75,000 to Mr. Cuomo's campaigns over the years. His uncle, Kenneth Moelis, is a financial consultant whose firm, Moelis & Co., was hired by the administration last year as an adviser on gambling matters.
Reached by phone, Andrew Moelis declined to comment. At Empire State, he is listed as a contact on a redevelopment project that the agency is overseeing at Belmont Park on Long Island.
Maya Kriet, a spokeswoman for his father, Ron Moelis, said ''there was no link between'' the donation or political considerations and the hiring.
''Ron did not ask the governor or any of his staff to hire his son,'' she said. ''Andrew made a personal decision to join Empire State Development.''
Other employees include Rachel Adler, a $35,000-a-year press officer who graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in 2011. She is the daughter of Paul Adler, the former Rockland County Democratic chairman, who went to prison several years ago on federal corruption charges but is now active again in political circles.
Ms. Adler did not respond to requests for comment. Mr. Adler said he had nothing to do with his daughter's appointment, declining to comment further.
Mr. Cuomo's office said Ms. Adler specialized in social marketing, crediting her with helping to increase Empire State's Twitter followers by 5,000 since her hiring in November 2011.
Some officials at the agency are friends and political associates of Mr. Cuomo. Mr. Rubin, the former State Department spokesman, knows Mr. Cuomo from President Bill Clinton's administration. (Mr. Cuomo was Mr. Clinton's housing secretary.)
Mr. Cuomo's office said trade missions conducted by Mr. Rubin had helped increase the exports of 63 state companies. Mr. Cuomo also named Mr. Rubin to the board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
In announcing Mr. Rubin's appointments to the two agencies in October 2011, Mr. Cuomo said, ''With decades of work in government, finance and the media, James Rubin is a true national leader in international economic affairs."
Mr. Rubin declined to comment. Several others with political ties to Mr. Cuomo who were hired at Empire State either declined to comment or did not respond to phone and e-mail messages.
Rhoda Glickman is a $150,000-a-year senior vice president of arts and cultural development at the agency. She is the wife of Dan Glickman, who served in the Clinton cabinet with Mr. Cuomo and is the former head of the Motion Picture Association of America. She once ran a Congressional arts organization when her husband was in Congress, and her son Jonathan is a film studio executive.
''Her family is well known in the industry,'' Mr. Cuomo's office said.
The Glickman family has donated nearly $43,000 to Mr. Cuomo's campaigns since 2001, according to campaign disclosure records.
Empire State also hired Irene Baker, a lawyer who had worked for Mr. Cuomo in the attorney general's office, at a $120,000 salary, even as she was also acting as a director of cabinet affairs for Mr. Cuomo. Under the law, public authorities are required to operate at arms-length from the executive branch, raising questions about such dual roles. (Ms. Baker later resigned to take a job at Madison Square Garden.)
A number of other executives have been active in state politics. Sam Hoyt, a senior official at the agency, is a former Democratic assemblyman from Buffalo who was once involved in a sex scandal with an intern. A longtime ally of the governor, he was hired to represent the agency in the Western part of the state and earns $139,000 annually.
When the New York Legislature approved same-sex marriage in 2011, a signature Cuomo initiative, one of the administration's allies was Ross D. Levi, executive director of the Empire State Pride Agenda. Mr. Levi was later dismissed by the group after he had a falling out with its board.
He ended up at the agency, where he earns $130,000 as a vice president of marketing.
Mr. Cuomo's office said Empire State had hired Vincent Esposito, a former county legislator and aide in the Assembly, because he had worked on economic development projects.
But last year, Mr. Esposito was widely viewed as a leading Democrat to take on State Senator James Alesi, an upstate Republican who provided a crucial vote in support of same-sex marriage.
Mr. Cuomo took a number of steps to shore up the re-election prospects of Mr. Alesi and three other Republicans in the Senate who supported the bill.
Mr. Esposito dropped out of the Senate race in May 2012. Two months later, he received a job at Empire State.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Top, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo with Kenneth Adams, of Empire State Development Corporation, which has hired many of Mr. Cuomo's supporters, including the son of Ron Moelis, above left, who gave $25,000 to Mr. Cuomo's re-election campaign
Rhoda Glickman, who with her husband, Dan Glickman, has donated to Mr. Cuomo's campaigns
and James P. Rubin, above right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES
 DON EMMERT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



868 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: When Assimilation Stalls

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
THE immigration legislation percolating in the Senate has been pitched as an all-things-to-all-factions compromise. Illegal immigrants will be regularized, but most of them will have to wait at least a decade to gain citizenship. There will be more visas and new guest-worker programs, but also stiffer enforcement on the border and in workplaces.
But the bill's real priority is to accelerate existing immigration trends. The enforcement mechanisms phase in gradually, with ambiguous prospects for success, while the legislation's impact on migration would be immediate: more paths to residency for foreigners, instant legal status for the 11 million here illegally, and the implicit promise to future border-crossers that some kind of amnesty always comes to those who come and wait. 
Today, almost 25 percent of working-age Americans are first-generation immigrants or their children. That figure is up sharply since the 1960s, and it's projected to climb to 37 percent by 2050. A vote for the Senate legislation would be a vote for that number to climb faster still.
The bill has been written this way because America's leadership class, Republicans as well as Democrats, assumes that continued mass immigration is exactly what our economy needs. As America struggles to adapt to an aging population, the bill's supporters argue, immigrants offer youth, vitality and tax dollars. As we try to escape economic stagnation, mass immigration promises an extra shot of growth.
Is there any reason to be skeptical of this optimistic consensus? Actually, there are two: the assimilation patterns for descendants of Hispanic (particularly Mexican) immigrants and the socioeconomic disarray among the native-born poor and working class.
Conservatives have long worried that recent immigrants from Latin America would assimilate more slowly than previous new arrivals -- because of their sheer numbers and shared language, and because the American economy has changed in ways that make it harder for less-educated workers to assimilate and rise.
As my colleague David Leonhardt wrote recently, those fears seem unfounded if you look at second-generation Hispanics, who make clear progress -- economic, educational and linguistic -- relative to their immigrant parents.
But there's a substantial body of literature showing that progress stalling out, especially for Mexican-Americans, between the second generation and the third. A 2002 study, for instance, reported that despite ''improvements in human capital and earnings'' for second-generation Mexican immigrants, the third generation still ''trails the education and earnings of the average American,'' and shows little sign of catching up. In their 2009 book ''Generations of Exclusion,'' the sociologists Edward Telles and Vilma Ortiz found similar stagnation and slippage for descendants of Mexican immigrants during the second half of the 20th century.
As National Review's Reihan Salam points out, even a recent Pew study painting an optimistic portrait of assimilation also shows third-generation (and higher) Hispanics with lower household incomes than the second generation.
This past need not predict the future. Maybe things will turn out better for the descendants of people arriving now.
But it's pretty easy to see how the third-generation stall-out could continue, given the trends -- unemployment, family breakdown, weakening communal ties -- already working against social mobility in America.
These trends mean that we're asking low-skilled immigrants to assimilate into a working class that's already in crisis. We're hoping that our dysfunctional educational system can prevent millions more children from assimilating downward into what sociologists have called a ''rainbow underclass.'' And we're betting that the growing incomes of second-generation Hispanics will outweigh their retreat from marriage and rising out-of-wedlock birthrates.
All these bets may pay off. But maybe, just maybe, we should be hedging them a bit. If we want to regularize 11 million illegal immigrants, for instance, does it make sense to layer bigger guest-worker programs on top of amnesty? If we care about workplace enforcement, why not phase it in more completely before offering legal status to the undocumented? If we want to increase immigration over all, shouldn't we consider tilting the balance much, much more toward higher-skilled immigrants than the current legislation does?
On a blackboard in an economics classroom, the case for mass immigration looks airtight. But many of America's economic difficulties are rooted in social and cultural problems, and a policy that just ignores those problems is a policy that's likely to make them worse.
In the end, the promise of American life is more than just a bigger paycheck than foreign economies supply. It's a promise of social equality, intergenerational advancement and fluid lines of class. The fact that so many people around the world still find that promise appealing is a wonderful thing. But it's also important to be sure, while we decide how many of them to welcome and how fast, that we can still deliver on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (97%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CHILDREN (73%); AGING TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); CITIZENSHIP (58%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



869 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Silver Fox's Pink Slip

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
BARBARA BUSH is a word that rhymes with fright.
She's right.
Asked on the ''Today'' show whether she thought her son Jeb should run for president in 2016, as W. has urged, the famously candid and caustic Silver Fox offered the most honest assessment of her oldest son's legacy.
Aside from the cascading disasters that the country is still struggling to recover from, a key W. legacy is derailing the path of the son Poppy and Barbara Bush dearly wanted to be president: Jeb. 
For the first time, the 87-year-old former first lady acknowledged, in essence, that W. had worn out the family's welcome in the White House. ''He's by far the best qualified man, but no, I really don't,'' she said when asked if her second son should aim to be the third Bush in chief. ''I think it's a great country. There are a lot of great families, and it's not just four families or whatever. There are other people out there that are very qualified and we've had enough Bushes.''
Jenna Bush Hager, a ''Today'' show correspondent who was a participant in the Thursday interview with her grandmother, mother and sister, blurted ''Surpri-i-ise!'' and threw up her arms. CNN e-mailed Jeb to find out what he thought of his mother's ''priceless'' comment and Jeb e-mailed back: ''Priceless indeed!''
But Bar, who was also giving the back of the hand to the Clintons, spit out the truth. It is wearying that America, a country that broke away from aristocratic England in a burst of rugged individualism, has spawned so many of its own royal political families, dynasties that feel entitled to inhabit the White House, generation after generation, letting their family competitions and tensions shape policy and history to an alarming degree.
Why does a George P., Chelsea, Beau Biden, Joe Kennedy III presidential sweepstakes feel so inevitable?
There were plenty of other, less perspicacious assessments of the Bush legacy on the occasion of W.'s presidential library opening in Dallas. Josh Bolten, Bush's chief of staff in the second term, defended 43's economic record -- two off-the-books, badly managed wars and more of the deregulation that led to toxic derivatives, government bailouts and a near collapse of the whole economy -- saying it ''really wasn't so bad.''
Former Bush staffers and some on the right defended 43 in the usual debates: Was he the Decider or the Dupe? Was he smart or simplistic? The latter question is really beside the point in Washington, the capital of smart people doing dumb things.
W.'s presidency will go down in infamy because he ignored Katrina and the Constitution and cherry-picked intelligence with Tony Blair to build up a faux case for invading Iraq. That is why the three Democratic presidents who talked at his library's dedication had to cherry-pick their topics, focusing mostly on W.'s good work on AIDS in Africa.
Though he presents himself as the Batman of anti-terrorism, W. ignored the warning that Osama was going to strike and didn't catch him dead or alive. He failed to fix the egregious problems of agencies coordinating watch lists and dropping the ball on information about terrorist suspects, which flared again in the Boston bombings.
W. and other Bush officials continue to say they could not possibly have known that Saddam had no W.M.D. But I'm now told that Saddam sent word through the Saudis to the Bushies over and over that he had no W.M.D. and was only blustering to keep his nemesis in the neighborhood, Iran, at bay.
Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld weren't looking for the truth, and they weren't hitting the pause button the way President Obama is with Syria right now, sensitive to the quicksand nature of the region. They simply wanted to blast some Arabs and Saddam was a weak target, just as W. was a weak president, easily led wherever Cheney and his co-conspirator Rummy, along with their bellicose band of neocons, wanted to take him.
Obama and others praised 43 last week as ''comfortable in his own skin.'' That's absurd. People who are comfortable in their own skin don't shape their lives and actions so self-consciously, and often self-destructively, on another. W. veered between aping his father and doing the opposite of his father.
Pressed by Charlie Rose on ''CBS This Morning,'' W. reiterated the unfathomable fact that he went to war with the same dictator that his father did, without ever seeking his dad's counsel. ''He knows,'' W. said of his father, ''that each presidential decision requires advice from people who have studied an issue.'' That's quite a rationalization. Who, after all, has studied the issue more closely than another president who decided against invading Baghdad?
Sadly, no one in W.'s inner circle studied the issue. As Colin Powell has noted, there was no proper debate or meeting of the National Security Council before the invasion. W. went to war on body language, manipulated by the war-mongering gargoyles who would also bring us torture, domestic spying and secret prisons.
''I can't remember a specific incident where I called up and said, 'What do I do?' '' W. said about getting advice from his level-headed dad.
And that's the shame of it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FAMILY (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); TOXIC ASSETS (60%); LIBRARIES (60%); BAILOUTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



870 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Dark Side of Energy Independence

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN ALTER and EDWARD FISHMAN. 
Benjamin Alter is a staff editor, and Edward Fishman is an assistant editor, at Foreign Affairs.

 BODY:
JUST as the world was writing off America as a declining power, the country now finds itself on the cusp of realizing one of its longstanding goals: energy independence.
A wave of new technologies has made it possible to extract oil and gas from shale rock formations, and the results have been astonishing. By some estimates, the United States is on track to overtake Saudi Arabia as the world's largest oil producer as early as 2017, start exporting more oil and gas than it imports by 2025, and achieve full energy self-sufficiency by 2030.
American politicians in both parties have long dreamed of energy independence -- not only for its potential economic benefits, but also because it could free the United States from the vicissitudes of the outside world. 
Last March, President Obama said that new energy sources and technologies would make America ''less dependent on what's going on in the Middle East.'' The Romney campaign, meanwhile, argued that energy independence would mean that ''the nation's security is no longer beholden to unstable but oil-rich regions halfway around the world.''
But that is a fantasy. While the latest energy revolution will be a boon to America's economy, it will in no way allow the United States to turn its back on the rest of the world.
That's because America's oil and gas bonanza will drive down global energy prices, undercutting the foundations of petrostates everywhere. According to Francisco Blanch, the head of commodities research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, oil could fall to just $50 a barrel within the next two years, which could unleash unrest in regions crucial to American interests. Far from releasing the United States from the burden of global leadership, this process would force Washington to assume an even greater international role than it currently plays.
If there's one part of the world that America would like to be less encumbered by, it's the volatile and oil-rich Middle East. But energy independence will not spell the end of American engagement in that region. On the contrary, lower energy prices will undermine the stability of the Persian Gulf monarchies, whose hefty oil revenues have allowed them to win their populations' loyalties through patronage and a lack of taxation. These countries do not always share American values or help advance American interests, but anything that destabilizes them would create problems that Washington could not afford to ignore.
Consider Bahrain, which earns 70 percent of its revenues through petroleum production and refining. The small island monarchy has undergone deeply destabilizing protests since the start of the Arab Spring. A drop in global energy prices would hurt the already weak government, breathing new life into opposition forces. A populist revolution in Bahrain could empower the country's long-repressed Shiite majority, who already resent Washington's support for the ruling Sunni al-Khalifa family. A new regime in Bahrain might even seek to expel the Navy's Fifth Fleet, complicating America's efforts to protect international shipping lanes, fight piracy and check Iran's regional ambitions.
Even more alarming is the prospect of instability in Saudi Arabia. In 2011, the Saudi royal family was able to head off an Arab Spring-style revolution because of its enormous oil revenues, doling out $130 billion in benefits to pacify the country's younger and poorer inhabitants. Should lower oil prices make such patronage impossible in the future, the kingdom could face domestic unrest -- making the country a far less reliable partner for America in fighting terrorism and countering Iran. Moreover, if Saudi Arabia has less of its own money to spend on regional security, Washington will have to make up for the shortfall.
Outside the Middle East, declining global energy prices could have equally destabilizing effects. Russia rode its way out of the post-Soviet doldrums on a wave of rising revenues from oil and natural gas sales. Today, roughly half the country's 83 regions could not stay afloat without federal aid, which President Vladimir V. Putin has been able to supply generously thanks to huge oil profits.
As in the gulf monarchies, such transfers have allowed the government to neutralize political opposition. But discontent is still on the rise, as evidenced by the occasional protests that have shaken Moscow since 2011. Even a temporary drop in oil prices would constrain Mr. Putin's ability to pay off his enemies: experts at the Russian School of Economics predict that the country's oil wealth fund, a stash of petrodollars reserved for times of need, would be depleted if prices fell to $60 a barrel for just one year.
If he's unable to buy loyalty through patronage, Mr. Putin could turn to more pernicious methods like bullying neighbors and fanning the flames of nationalism. With outstanding border disputes and age-old rivals circling Russian territory, another conflict along the lines of the 2008 war against Georgia is not out of the question.
In the long run, of course, America would welcome a Russia that is more beholden to its people's wishes than to fluctuations in energy markets. Washington should be under no illusions, however, that the transition to that point will be either smooth or linear, and it should prepare for turbulence along the way.
Many will argue that an energy-independent America could simply retreat into isolationism during such a period of turbulence. But American engagement abroad has never been purely about securing access to energy. The United States has benefited as much as any other country from the free exchange of goods, the safety of global sea lanes, the spread of democracy and the great-power stability that have characterized the entire post-World War II era. None of this could exist without the steadying hand of American power. Washington must make abundantly clear that it will continue to uphold this world order -- irrespective of its own energy fortunes.
Americans should cheer the energy revolution. It will do wonders for the American economy, and the democratic politics it could encourage in the Middle East and Russia may ultimately serve American interests. But in the meantime, Washington should expect a world far less stable than the one it is used to -- and, in turn, prepare to adopt an even more outward-looking foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



871 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2833 words

HEADLINE: I Was Discovered by an Algorithm

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
WHEN the e-mail came out of the blue last summer, offering a shot as a programmer at a San Francisco start-up, Jade Dominguez, 26, was living off credit card debt in a rental in South Pasadena, Calif., while he taught himself programming. He had been an average student in high school and hadn't bothered with college, but someone, somewhere out there in the cloud, thought that he might be brilliant, or at least a diamond in the rough.
That someone was Luca Bonmassar. He had discovered Mr. Dominguez by using a technology that raises important questions about how people are recruited and hired, and whether great talent is being overlooked along the way. The concept is to focus less than recruiters might on traditional talent markers -- a degree from M.I.T., a previous job at Google, a recommendation from a friend or colleague -- and more on simple notions: How well does the person perform? What can the person do? And can it be quantified? 
The technology is the product of Gild, the 18-month-old start-up company of which Mr. Bonmassar is a co-founder. His is one of a handful of young businesses aiming to automate the discovery of talented programmers -- a group that is in enormous demand. These efforts fall in the category of Big Data, using computers to gather and crunch all kinds of information to perform many tasks, whether recommending books, putting targeted ads onto Web sites or predicting health care outcomes or stock prices.
Of late, growing numbers of academics and entrepreneurs are applying Big Data to human resources and the search for talent, creating a field called work-force science. Gild is trying to see whether these technologies can also be used to predict how well a programmer will perform in a job. The company scours the Internet for clues: Is his or her code well-regarded by other programmers? Does it get reused? How does the programmer communicate ideas? How does he or she relate on social media sites?
Gild's method is very much in its infancy, an unproven twinkle of an idea. There is healthy skepticism about this idea, but also excitement, especially in industries where good talent can be hard to find.
The company expects to have about $2 million to $3 million in revenue this year and has raised around $10 million, including a chunk from Mark Kvamme, a venture capitalist who invested early in LinkedIn. And Gild has big-name customers testing or using its technology to recruit, including Facebook, Amazon, Wal-Mart Stores, Google and Twitter.
Companies use Gild to mine for new candidates and to assess candidates they are already considering. Gild itself uses the technology, which was how the company, desperate for programming talent and unable to match the salaries offered by bigger tech concerns, found this guy named Jade outside of Los Angeles. Its algorithm had determined that he had the highest programming score in Southern California, a total that almost no one achieves. It was 100.
Who was Jade? Could he help the company? What does his story tell us about modern-day recruiting and hiring, about the concept of meritocracy?
PEOPLE in Silicon Valley tend to embrace certain assumptions: Progress, efficiency and speed are good. Technology can solve most things. Change is inevitable; disruption is not to be feared. And, maybe more than anything else, merit will prevail.
But Vivienne Ming, who since late in 2012 has been the chief scientist at Gild, says she doesn't think Silicon Valley is as merit-based as people imagine. She thinks that talented people are ignored, misjudged or fall through the cracks all the time. She holds that belief in part because she has had some experience of it.
Dr. Ming was born male, christened Evan Campbell Smith. He was a good student and a great athlete -- holding records at his high school in track and field in the triple jump and long jump. But he always felt a disconnect with his body. After high school, Evan experienced a full-blown identity crisis. He flopped at college, kicked around jobs, contemplated suicide, hit the proverbial bottom. But rather than getting stuck there, he bounced. At 27, he returned to school, got an undergraduate degree in cognitive neuroscience from the University of California, San Diego, and went on to receive a Ph.D. at Carnegie Mellon in psychology and computational neuroscience.
During a fellowship at Stanford, he began gender transition, becoming, fully, Dr. Vivienne Ming in 2008.
As a woman, Dr. Ming started noticing that people treated her differently. There were small things that seemed innocuous, like men opening the door for her. There were also troubling things, like the fact that her students asked her fewer questions about math then they had when she was a man, or that she was invited to fewer social events -- a baseball game, for instance -- by male colleagues and business connections.
Bias often takes forms that people may not recognize. One study that Dr. Ming cites, by researchers at Yale, found that faculty members at research universities described female applicants for a manager position as significantly less competent than male applicants with identical qualifications. Another study, published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, found that people who sent in résumés with ''black-sounding'' names had a considerably harder time getting called back from employers than did people who sent in résumés showing equal qualifications but with ''white-sounding'' names.
Everybody can pretty much agree that gender, or how people look, or the sound of a last name, shouldn't influence hiring decisions. But Dr. Ming takes the idea of meritocracy further. She suggests that shortcuts accepted as a good proxy for talent -- like where you went to school or previously worked -- can also shortchange talented people and, ultimately, employers. ''The traditional markers people use for hiring can be wrong, profoundly wrong,'' she said.
Dr. Ming's answer to what she calls ''so much wasted talent'' is to build machines that try to eliminate human bias. It's not that traditional pedigrees should be ignored, just balanced with what she considers more sophisticated measures. In all, Gild's algorithm crunches thousands of bits of information in calculating around 300 larger variables about an individual: the sites where a person hangs out; the types of language, positive or negative, that he or she uses to describe technology of various kinds; self-reported skills on LinkedIn; the projects a person has worked on, and for how long; and, yes, where he or she went to school, in what major, and how that school was ranked that year by U.S. News & World Report.
''Let's put everything in and let the data speak for itself,'' Dr. Ming said of the algorithms she is now building for Gild.
Gild is not the only company now scouring for information. TalentBin, another San Francisco start-up firm, searches the Internet for talented programmers, trawling sites where they gather, collecting ''data exhaust,'' according to the company Web site, and creating lists of potential hires for employers. Another competitor is RemarkableHire, which assesses a person's talents by looking at how his or her online contributions are rated by others.
And there's Entelo, which tries to figure out who might be looking for a job before they even start their exploration. According to its Web site, the company uses more than 70 variables to find indications of possible career change, such as how someone presents herself on social sites. The Web site reads: ''We crunch the data so you don't have to.''
This application of Big Data to recruiting is ''is absolutely worth a try,'' said Susan Etlinger, an analyst of the data and analytics industries at the Altimeter Group. But she questioned whether an algorithm would be an improvement over what employers already do: gathering résumés, or referrals, and using traditional markers associated with success.
''The big hole is actual outcomes,'' she said. ''What I'm not buying yet is that probability equals actuality.''
Sean Gourley, co-founder and chief technology officer at Quid, a Big Data company, said that data trawling could inform recruiting and hiring, but only if used with an understanding of what the data can't reveal. ''Big Data has its own bias,'' he said. ''You measure what you can measure,'' and ''you're denigrating what can't be measured, like gut instinct, charisma.''
He added: ''When you remove humans from complex decision-making, you can optimize the hell out of the algorithm, but at what cost?''
Dr. Ming doesn't suggest eliminating human judgment, but she does think that the computer should lead the way, acting as an automated vacuum and filter for talent. The company has amassed a database of seven million programmers, ranking them based on what it calls a Gild score -- a measure, the company says, of what a person can do. Ultimately, Dr. Ming wants to expand the algorithm so it can search for and assess other kinds of workers, like Web site designers, financial analysts and even sales people at, say, retail outlets.
''We did our own internal gold strike,'' Dr. Ming said. ''We found this kid in Los Angeles just kicking around his computer.''
She's talking about Jade.
MR. DOMINGUEZ grew up in Los Angeles, the middle child of five. His mother took care of the household; his dad installed telecommunications equipment -- a blue-collar guy who prized education.
But Jade had a rebellious streak. Halfway through high school, Mr. Dominguez, previously a straight-A student, began wondering whether going to school was more about satisfying requirements than real learning. ''The value proposition is to go to school to get a good job,'' he told me. ''Philosophically, shouldn't you go to school to learn?'' His grades fell sharply, and he said he graduated from Alhambra High School in 2004 with less than a 3.0 grade-point average.
Not only did he reject college, he also wanted to prove that he could succeed wildly without it. He devoured books on entrepreneurship. He started a company that printed custom T-shirts, first from his house, then from a 1,000-square-foot warehouse space he rented. He decided that he needed a Web site, so he taught himself programming.
''I was out to prove myself on my own merit,'' he said. He concedes that he might have taken it a little far. ''It's a little immature to be motivated by proving people wrong,'' he said.
He got a tattoo on his arm in flowery script that read ''Believe.'' He sort of laughs about it now, though he still feels that he can accomplish what he puts his mind to. ''It's the great thing about code,'' he said of computer language. ''It's largely merit-driven. It's not about what you've studied. It's about what you've shipped.''
When Gild went looking for talent, it assumed that the San Francisco and Silicon Valley areas would be picked over. So it ran its algorithm in Southern California and came up with a list of programmers. At the top was Mr. Dominguez, who had a very solid reputation on GitHub -- a place where software developers gather to share code, exchange ideas and build reputations. Gild combs through GitHub and a handful of other sites, including Bitbucket and Google Code, looking for bright people in the field.
Mr. Dominguez had made quite a contribution. His code for Jekyll-Bootstrap, a function used in building Web sites, was reused by an impressive 1,267 other developers. His language and habits showed a passion for product development and several programming tools, like Rails and JavaScript, which were interesting to Gild. His blogs and posts on Twitter suggested that he was opinionated, something that the company wanted on its initial team.
A recruiter from Gild sent him an e-mail and had him come to San Francisco for an interview. The company founders met a charismatic, confident person -- poised, articulate, thoughtful, with an easy smile, a tad rougher around the edges than other interview candidates, said Sheeroy Desai, Mr. Bonmassar's co-founder at Gild and the company's chief executive.
Mr. Dominguez wore a vibrant green hoodie to the interview. He asked pointed questions, like this one: Did the company worry that it would be perceived as violating privacy by scoring engineers without their knowledge? (It didn't believe so, and he didn't, either. Gild says it uses only publicly available information.)
They asked him some pointed but gentle questions, too, like whether he could work in a structured environment. He said he could. The company made Mr. Dominguez a job offer right away, and he accepted a position that pays around $115,000 a year.
''He's a symbol of someone who is smart, highly motivated and yet, for whatever reason, wasn't motivated in high school and didn't see value in college,'' Mr. Desai said.
Mr. Desai did go to college, at M.I.T., one of those schools that recruiters value so highly. It was there, he said, that he learned how to cope with pressure and to work with brilliant people and sometimes feel humbled. But while one's work at school isn't inconsequential, he said, ''it's not the whole story.'' He asserts that despite his degree in computer science, ''I'm a terrible developer.''
David Lewin, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and an expert in management of human resources, said that asking what someone could do was an important question, but so was asking whether the person could accomplish it with other people. Of all the efforts to predict whether someone will perform well in an organization, the most proven method, Dr. Lewin said, is a referral from someone already working there. Current employees know the culture, he said, and have their reputations and their work environment on the line. A recent study from the Yale School of Management that uses Big Data offers a refinement to the notion, finding that employee referrals are a great way to find good hires but that the method tends to work much better if the employee making the referral is highly productive.
For his part, Dr. Lewin is skeptical that an algorithm would be a good substitute for a good referral from a trusted employee.
One of Gild's customers is Square, a San Francisco-based mobile payment system. Like many other high-tech companies, Square is aggressively hiring, and it's finding the competition for great talent as intense as it was during the dot-com boom, according to Bryan Power, the company's director of talent and a Silicon Valley veteran. Mr. Power says Gild offers a potential leg up in finding programmers who aren't the obvious catches.
''Getting out of Stanford or Google is a very good proxy'' for talent, Mr. Power said. ''They have reputations for a reason.'' But those prospects have many choices, and they might not choose Square. ''We need more pools to draw from,'' he said, ''and that's what Gild represents.''
Gild's technology has turned up some prospects for Square, but hasn't led directly to a hire. Mr. Power says the Gild algorithm provides a generalized programming score that is not as specific as Square needs for its job slots. ''Gild has an opinion of who is good but it's not that simple,'' he said, adding that Square was talking to Gild about refining the model.
Despite the limited usefulness thus far, Mr. Power says that what Gild is doing is the start of something powerful. Today's young engineers are posting much more of their work online, and doing open-source work, providing more data to mine in search of the diamonds. ''It's all about finding unrecognized talent,'' he said.
MR. DOMINGUEZ has worked at Gild for eight months and has proved himself a talented programmer, Mr. Desai said. But he also said that Mr. Dominguez ''sometimes struggles to work in a structured environment.'' His co-workers try not to bug him when he's sitting at his computer, locked into that work zone.
In meetings, Mr. Dominguez speaks his mind. He's happier, he said, ''as long as I can have a say in how the system is built,'' or it's just another system he would have to conform to. He bristles slightly at the growth of the company, which has expanded to 40 people from 10 in the last six months, adding layers of management and bureaucracy.
''The truth is that's in my nature to do stuff in my own way; inevitably I want to start my own company,'' he said, but he's quick to add: ''I do appreciate and the respect the opportunity the company's given me because I think it's very clear they hired me on merit. I will always appreciate that.''
Dr. Ming says the young man is both a great find and still an unknown. Of course, he is just a single example, one heralded by the company, but who cannot alone either validate or disprove the method.
''He's got the lone-wolf thing going on,'' Dr. Ming said. ''It's going well early but it could get tougher later on.''
The algorithm did a good job measuring what it can measure. It nailed Mr. Dominguez's talent for working with computers. What is still unfolding is how he uses his talent over the long term, working with people.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jade Dominguez, 26, never went to college, but was hired by Gild, a start-up, after its algorithm put him atop a list of programmers. Gild's technology is challenging traditional modes of hiring. (BU1)
''The traditional markers people use for hiring can be wrong, profoundly wrong,'' says Vivienne Ming, the chief scientist at Gild since late last year.
 Jake Magner, above left, and Yuriy Groysman are data scientists at Gild. At top are Luca Bonmassar and Sheeroy Desai, the co-founders. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STARTUPS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); BIG DATA (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); TEST MARKETING (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); LABOR FORCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



872 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Slam The Bailout Door

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THERE'S a lot to like, if you're a taxpayer, in the new bipartisan bill from two concerned senators hoping to end the peril of big bank bailouts. But if you're a large and powerful financial institution that's too big to fail, you won't like this bill one bit.
The legislation, called the Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness Act, emerged last Wednesday; its co-sponsors are Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and David Vitter, a Louisiana Republican. It is a smart, simple and tough piece of work that would protect taxpayers from costly rescues in the future. 
This means that the bill will come under fierce attack from the big banks that almost wrecked our economy and stand to lose the most if it becomes law.
For starters, the bill would create an entirely new, transparent and ungameable set of capital rules for the nation's banks -- in other words, a meaningful rainy-day fund. Enormous institutions, like JPMorgan Chase and Citibank, would have to hold common stockholder equity of at least 15 percent of their consolidated assets to protect against large losses. That's almost double the 8 percent of risk-weighted assets required under the capital rules established by Basel III, the latest version of the byzantine international system created by regulators and central bankers.
This change, by itself, would eliminate a raft of problems posed by the risk-weighted Basel approach. Under those rules, banks must hold lesser or greater amounts of capital against assets, depending on the supposed risks they pose. For example, holdings of United States government securities are considered low-risk and require no capital to be held against them. Securities or loans that are riskier require more of a buffer against loss.
There are many problems with this arrangement. First, the risk assessments on various types of assets rely heavily on ratings agency grades. In the housing boom, toxic mortgage securities carrying triple-A ratings were considered low-risk, too. As such, they didn't require hefty capital set-asides.
We all know how disastrous that was. So chalk up this plus for Brown-Vitter: Eliminating risk-weights as part of a capital assessment means less reliance on unreliable ratings.
Risk-weighted asset calculations also give bankers a lot of freedom to understate the perils in their institutions' holdings.
The bill prevents another type of fudging by requiring off-balance-sheet assets and liabilities and derivatives positions to be included in a bank's consolidated assets. In addition, the capital cushion that a bank would hold under the bill is liquid and can absorb losses easily. This capital measure would be more transparent than the current system and could not be manipulated.
In a truly courageous move, Brown-Vitter would require United States financial regulators to abandon Basel III. An earlier version of Basel did nothing to prevent the financial crisis and encouraged banks to binge on leverage.
Taxpayers would not be the only beneficiaries in the Brown-Vitter bill. Community banks, which weren't responsible for bringing the nation's economy to the brink, would be operating on a more level playing field with the jumbo banks. These large institutions have lower financing costs than community banks because the market understands that regulators will never let them fail.
''This bill will inject more market discipline on the financial services industry,'' Mr. Brown said in an interview on Thursday. ''The megabanks have a choice to make: they can increase their capital or bring down their size.''
Brown-Vitter has other attributes as well. It would bar bank regulators from giving nondepository institutions access to Federal Reserve lending programs. And it would make it harder for bank holding companies to move assets or liabilities from nonbanking affiliates, like derivatives bets held at a brokerage unit, to the protective umbrella of the parent company that might be rescued by taxpayers in a financial disaster.
Thomas M. Hoenig, the vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, supports the bill. ''It's finally taking the discussion in the right direction toward improving the stability of banks and the financial system more broadly,'' Mr. Hoenig said in an interview on Friday. Brown-Vitter would also put the United States in a leadership position on financial soundness, he added, which other countries could emulate.
Both Mr. Brown and Mr. Vitter acknowledge, of course, that they will have to wage war with the financial services machine to move the bill forward. And last week, right on cue, the big-bank protection team went to work, warning of economic mayhem that would result if Brown-Vitter became law.
Standard & Poor's, for example, published a report forecasting a possible credit crisis resulting from passage of the bill, ''further reducing economic growth prospects.'' With more money in a capital cushion, there would be less money to lend, the banks say.
And Tony Fratto, a strategist who represents the large banks, called the bill's capital requirements ''a penalty rate.'' He added in an e-mail: ''This bill is being introduced in the context of significant improvements to the safety of the financial sector. By historical and international standards, large U.S. banks are very safe.''
Mr. Brown and Mr. Vitter are also up against the Obama administration, which continues to argue, in lock step with the banks, that the Dodd-Frank legislation has already eliminated the threat of big and risky enterprises.
But Mr. Vitter told me that risks remained in the banking system, and that he wasn't the only one making that judgment. ''There is a growing bipartisan concern that 'too big to fail' is still unfortunately alive and well,'' Mr. Vitter said. ''I'm not trying to suggest passing this bill will be a cakewalk, but it's a completely different landscape than it was a year ago.''
Now comes the hard work of getting support for their bill from Senate colleagues.
A little over a month ago, the Senate held a nonbinding vote on the problems posed by megabanks. Its members voted 99 to 0 to ''to end 'too big to fail' subsidies or funding advantage for Wall Street megabanks.''
Brown-Vitter would achieve those goals while also protecting taxpayers. As such, it will be interesting to see which senators retreat from their earlier positions by refusing to support the bill. Constituents on the alert for hypocrisy, take note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); COMMON STOCK (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (78%); SHERROD BROWN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



873 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: When Companies Get It Right

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
EVERY few weeks, the Haggler receives e-mail from happy customers eager to praise companies that have treated them well. Given the howls of dismay and fury that typically fill the Haggler's in-box, these letters are startling and exotic -- like finding a yogi in a mosh pit. When enough unsolicited huzzahs pile up, the Haggler likes to present them in a column.
Why? Because the Haggler's never-ending quest for an improved, more responsive service economy includes the occasional round of applause for companies that get it right. 
And further, if all you knew about the consumer experience in this country was learned from this column, you'd never leave the house. Or answer the phone, or order anything online. Which is a highly skewed portrait.
So with that preamble, the Haggler steps aside and hands the microphone to a species that is rarely spotted in this space: the satisfied customer.
Recently, our three-year-old Cuisinart coffee maker started making noises akin to a strangled parrot, and then ended its life with a theatrical puff of smoke, like a magician's finale. When contacted about this, Cuisinart -- which is owned by the Conair Corporation -- immediately shipped us a newer and better machine, even though ours was long out of warranty. The company also provided a box to ship the old one back, presumably for an autopsy.
The whole process took less than five days. Well done, Conair. You have a customer for life.
CRAIG STUART-PAUL, Catonsville, Md.
Several months ago I bought one of those LED light bulbs that are supposed to last a couple of decades. It was a Philips that cost nearly $40 and I expected it to outlast me.
It died after five months. To my surprise, when I called to complain, Philips offered to refund the purchase price plus the sales tax. They asked only that I return the dead bulb, presumably so they could determine why it failed. A couple weeks later, a check for $40 came in the mail, along with a prepaid label for me to return the bulb.
Very impressive.
BILL FARREN, Monroe, Conn.
You are sort of the Miss Lonelyhearts of the retail world. So, I thought you might like to know that I just bought a ton of stuff from West Elm and it all went flawlessly. I talked to human beings -- not answering machines -- several of whom called me to arrange delivery times and inform me that back-ordered items had arrived. I thought this might brighten your day a bit.
NANCY LEROY, Montclair, N.J.
After about five years of faithful service, my TiVo digital video recorder died. The company offered a good price on a replacement if I sent back the dead unit, which I did. However, I neglected to remove the cable card before I shipped the unit. I didn't realize my error until the new unit arrived.
I sent an e-mail to TiVo, asking if there was any way they might be able to locate my cable card and send it back. They wrote right away and said they would contact the warehouse, but that it might be difficult.
Lo and behold, a week later a package arrived with my cable card, saving me $75 to replace it and earning TiVo my everlasting customer loyalty. This is the way to run a business and retain customers.
PAUL C. MENDELOWITZ, Park Ridge, N.J.
My husband recently took a flight from Appleton, Wis., to Eugene, Ore., a trip that included a stop in Portland. The Portland-to-Eugene leg was canceled, so he rented a car in Portland and drove to the Eugene airport. He arrived right around 3:30, which was great because that is when I was supposed to pick him up.
We contacted Delta Air Lines and it responded promptly, politely and apologetically and agreed to refund the unused Portland-Eugene ticket. It would not refund the $100 for the rental car and gas, but offered a $100 gift card from a small selection of companies. My husband went with L. L. Bean.
Given what I read in your column, this all seemed amazing.
ELLEN JOHNSON, North Bend, Ore.
A U.P.S. driver came to my door with a prepaid label to pick up a baby monitor being returned to Amazon. He accidentally took the wrong box, which contained a rather expensive espresso machine, on its way back to Nespresso for repair, sending it to Amazon instead.
One call to customer service and Amazon found a quick way to handle the problem. The company let me pick a new espresso machine from its inventory, and sent it to me, at no cost.
I've always loved Amazon. Now I love it even more.
MORRIS TABUSH, Brooklyn
I bought a General Electric microwave last summer and upon opening the box found that the clear plastic overlay on the control panel was wrinkled and bubbled. This made it hard to read the symbols on the panel. I thought that I could live with this, but it just got more annoying over time.
I decided to call G.E. customer relations with the expectation that I would probably have to ship it back, at considerable cost. The G.E. representative was pleasant and she asked me to remove the serial number label and to send it to her. ''We will send you a refund,'' she then said. A check arrived soon after.
DAVID SEGAL, Philadelphia
(The writer, whose name really is David Segal, is not related to the Haggler. But the Haggler still hopes that he will immediately cease and desist from using the name. Please, let's keep the lawyers out of this.)
See? Some companies know how to cultivate loyalty. The Haggler salutes them. Really. And now, having finished that salute, this column will return to its regular programming, which is delivering the written equivalent of a Dutch rub to any consumer-abusing chuckleheads that need one.
E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com Keep it brief and family-friendly, include your hometown and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (73%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); AUTOPSIES (64%); SALES TAX (62%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (60%)

COMPANY: CONAIR CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (68%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



874 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Departing French Envoy Has Frank Words On Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- It is always hard to gauge what diplomats really think unless one of their cables ends up on WikiLeaks, but every once in a while, the barriers fall and a bit of truth slips into public view.
That is especially true in Afghanistan, where diplomats painstakingly weigh every word against political goals back home. 
The positive spin from the Americans has been running especially hard the last few weeks, as Congressional committees in Washington focus on spending bills and the Obama administration, trying to secure money for a few more years here, talks up the country's progress. The same is going on at the European Union, where the tone has been sterner than in the past, but still glosses predictions of Afghanistan's future with upbeat words like ''promise'' and ''potential.''
Despite that, one of those rare truth-telling moments came at a farewell cocktail party last week hosted by the departing French ambassador to Kabul: Bernard Bajolet, who is leaving to head France's Direction Génerale de la Sécurité Extérieure, its foreign intelligence service.
After the white-coated staff passed the third round of hors d'oeuvres, Mr. Bajolet took the lectern and laid out a picture of how France -- a country plagued by a slow economy, waning public support for the Afghan endeavor and demands from other foreign conflicts, including Syria and North Africa -- looked at Afghanistan.
While it is certainly easier for France to be a critic from the sidelines than countries whose troops are still fighting in Afghanistan, the country can claim to have done its part. It lost more troops than all but three other countries before withdrawing its last combat forces in the fall.
The room, filled with diplomats, some senior soldiers and a number of Afghan dignitaries, went deadly quiet. When Mr. Bajolet finished, there was restrained applause -- and sober expressions. One diplomat raised his eyebrows and nodded slightly; another said, ''No holding back there.''
So what did he say?
That the Afghan project is on thin ice and that, collectively, the West was responsible for a chunk of what went wrong, though much of the rest the Afghans were responsible for. That the West had done a good job of fighting terrorism, but that most of that was done on Pakistani soil, not on the Afghan side of the border. And that without fundamental changes in how Afghanistan did business, the Afghan government, and by extension the West's investment in it, would come to little.
His tone was neither shrill nor reproachful. It was matter-of-fact.
''I still cannot understand how we, the international community, and the Afghan government have managed to arrive at a situation in which everything is coming together in 2014 -- elections, new president, economic transition, military transition and all this -- whereas the negotiations for the peace process have not really started,'' Mr. Bajolet said in his opening comments.
He was echoing a point shared privately by other diplomats, that 2014 was likely to be ''a perfect storm'' of political and military upheaval coinciding with the formal close of the NATO combat mission in Afghanistan.
As for the success of the fight on the ground, which American leaders routinely describe now as being ''Afghan-led,'' Mr. Bajolet sounded dubious. ''We do not have enough distance to make an objective assessment,'' he said, ''but in any case, I think it crucial that the Afghan highest leadership take more visible and obvious ownership for their army.''
His tone -- the sober, troubled observations of a diplomat closing a chapter -- could hardly have been more different from that taken by the new shift of American officials charged with making it work in Afghanistan: in particular, with that of Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the new American commanding general here. This week, General Dunford sent out a news release cheering on Afghanistan's progress, noting some positive-leaning statistics and praising the Afghan Army's abilities.
''Very soon, the A.N.S.F. will be responsible for security nationwide'' General Dunford said, referring to the Afghan National Security Forces. ''They are steadily gaining in confidence, competence, and commitment.''
At his farewell party, Mr. Bajolet wound up his realpolitik with a brisk analysis of what Afghanistan's government needed to do: cut corruption, which discourages investment, deal with drugs and become fiscally self-reliant. It must increase its revenues instead of letting politicians divert them, he said.
Several diplomats in the room could be seen nodding as he said that drugs caused ''more casualties than terrorism'' in Russia, Europe and the Balkans and that Western governments would be hard-put to make the case for continued spending on Afghanistan if it remains the world's largest heroin supplier.
The biggest contrast with the American and British line was Mr. Bajolet's riff on sovereignty, which has become the political watchword of the moment. The Americans and the international community are giving sovereignty back to Afghanistan. Afghanistan argues frequently that it is a sovereign nation. President Hamid Karzai, in the debate over taking charge of the Bagram prison, repeatedly said that Afghanistan had a sovereign responsibility to its prisoners.
His implicit question was, what does that really mean?
''We should be lucid: a country that depends almost entirely on the international community for the salaries of its soldiers and policemen, for most of its investments and partly on it for its current civil expenditure, cannot be really independent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a farewell speech, Bernard Bajolet outlined the challenges facing Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERTRAND LANGLOIS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



875 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Expected to Indict American It Is Holding

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- An American tour operator is facing indictment in North Korea on charges that he tried to overthrow the government there, the North's official Korean Central News Agency said Saturday.
The announcement about the tour operator, Kenneth Bae, an American born in South Korea, could complicate Washington's diplomatic balancing act as it tries to hold a tough line with North Korea over its nuclear program while avoiding confrontations that could lead to an armed conflict.
Mr. Bae, from Washington State, traveled with a group of businessmen in November from Yanji, China, to the North Korean special economic zone of Rason, where he was arrested. The news report on Saturday said that the North had already finished its investigation and that Mr. Bae had admitted his guilt to charges that could draw the death penalty. 
South Korean human rights advocates have described Mr. Bae as a devout Christian who not only ran tours to North Korea, but was also interested in helping orphans in the Communist country. They said security officials in the North may have been offended by pictures of orphans that Mr. Bae had taken and stored in his computer.
North Korea, a police state, has often used the plight of detained Americans as a bargaining chip in its dealings with Washington. Some were freed only after former American presidents traveled to the North.
The North has been locked in a standoff with America and South Korea since it detonated a nuclear bomb in February. Some analysts say that the nation's leader, Kim Jong-un, may be chafing at his inability to shift the two countries from the tough stance they have taken, refusing to offer the North aid to relieve tensions.
In January, Bill Richardson, a former American ambassador to the United Nations, tried to see Mr. Bae during a private trip to the North, but he said he was rebuffed by the government.
The Korean Central News Agency said that Mr. Bae's crime had been ''clearly substantiated by evidence.''
The news agency did not say when Mr. Bae's trial would begin. Under North Korea's criminal code, prosecutors are required to file a formal indictment within 10 days of the completion of an investigation. A court then rules on the case within 25 days.
North Korea indicated on Saturday that Mr. Bae would not be allowed to appeal if convicted.
In December, when North Korea officially confirmed Mr. Bae's detention, it said he had been arrested on charges of committing ''hostile acts'' against the North, a lesser crime than plotting to overthrow the government.
In 2009, North Korea arrested two American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, who it said had entered illegally and committed ''hostile acts.'' They were sentenced to 12 years of hard labor, but were released five months later, after former President Bill Clinton visited Pyongyang, the North's capital, and met with Kim Jong-il, the leader at the time.
In 2010, another American, Aijalon Mahli Gomes, was arrested and sentenced to eight years of hard labor for illegal entry and ''hostile acts.'' He was freed when former President Jimmy Carter visited Pyongyang.
Also on Saturday, 125 South Korean managers returned home from a jointly operated factory park in North Korea after Seoul decided to withdraw all its people amid continuing tensions. The remaining 50 were scheduled to return home in the next several days. North Korea pulled its workers out earlier this month.
''It is only a matter of time'' before the industrial complex, the last symbol of attempted reconciliation between the two Koreas, is shut down for good, a North Korean government spokesman told the news agency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: South Korean employees left a North Korean industrial park on Saturday with their cars loaded down with goods made there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUNG SUNG-JUN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOUR OPERATORS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); SENTENCING (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (69%); CRIMINAL LAW (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (58%); KIM JONG UN (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); JILIN, CHINA (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



876 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Helen Lamphere, Renny McPherson

 BODY:
Helen Morehouse Lamphere, a daughter of Louise Woolworth Lamphere and Gilbert Hicks Lamphere, both of Manhattan, was married Saturday to Forbes Reynolds McPherson, the son of Tina Sloan-McPherson and Stephen M. McPherson of Manhattan. The Rev. David C. L. Prior, an Anglican priest, performed the ceremony at the Jupiter Island Club in Hobe Sound, Fla. 
Until January, the bride, 28, worked in Manhattan and Kigali, Rwanda, as a program director for a health access initiative of the Clinton Foundation. The program developed a training program for health professionals in Rwanda that involved its health ministry with a consortium of American medical institutions. She graduated magna cum laude from Brown.
The bride's father is a partner in FlatWorld Capital, an investment firm in New York. Her mother is a trustee of the Noguchi Museum in Long Island City, Queens. The bride is a stepdaughter of Martha O'Brien Lamphere.
The groom, 33, is known as Renny. He is a founder and the head of business development and strategy at RedOwl Analytics, a data analysis software company that is starting up in Baltimore. Until 2007, he was a captain in the Marine Corps and served in Iraq. He is an author of the monograph ''An Economic Analysis of the Financial Records of Al Qaeda in Iraq.'' He graduated cum laude from Harvard, from which he also received an M.B.A.
The groom's mother, an actress, played Lillian Raines on ''Guiding Light,'' the CBS soap opera, from 1983 to 2009, and appeared in the film ''Black Swan.'' She is the author of a memoir ''Changing Shoes'' and wrote and performed a one-woman play based on the book. His father is a founder and a managing partner of Teton Associates, an executive search firm in Manhattan and Hobe Sound.
The groom is a great-grandson of Stephen Mather, the Chicago industrialist who was a founder and the first director of the National Park Service.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); RELIGION (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); WRITERS (71%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); THEATER (57%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%); NATIONAL PARKS (50%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); RWANDA (91%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



877 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: In the Season of Marriage, A Question. Why Bother?

BYLINE: By ANDREW J. CHERLIN. 
A professor of sociology and public policy at Johns Hopkins and author of ''The Marriage-Go-Round.''

 BODY:
IT'S surprising how many people still marry. As everyone knows, it's a risky proposition; the divorce rate, though down from its peak of one in two marriages in the early 1980s, remains substantial. Besides, you can have a perfectly respectable life these days without marrying.
When the Pew Research Center asked a sample of Americans in 2010 what they thought about the ''growing variety in the types of family arrangements that people live in,'' 34 percent responded that it was a good thing, and 32 percent said it made no difference. Having a child outside of marriage has also become common. According to a report by the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia, 47 percent of American women who give birth in their 20s are unmarried at the time. 
And still, demographers project that at least 80 percent of Americans will marry at some point in their lives.
Why?
The answer is that Americans are now marrying for a different reason. Marriage has become a status symbol -- a highly regarded marker of a successful personal life. This transformed meaning is evident in the Obama administration's briefs in the two same-sex marriage cases now in front of the Supreme Court. Those documents reflect, in part, the assumption that marriage represents not only a bundle of rights but also a privileged position.
In the case of Hollingsworth v. Perry, the Justice Department wrote that marriage ''confers a special validation of the relationship between two individuals and conveys a message to society that domestic partnerships or civil unions cannot match.'' Apparently, that special validation has little to do with rights, since domestic partners would have all of them if, as the department's other brief urged, federal benefits were extended to same-sex couples. In fact, in its brief for Hollingsworth v. Perry, the government is careful to highlight the ''social recognition conferred by the institution of marriage.''
This is not to say that marriage is less important than it was in the past. But it is important for different reasons. In the mid-20th century, there was nothing exceptional about marriage. Respectable people married; there was no other decent way to share a home with a partner. Shame attached to those who bore children out of wedlock. Spinsters and bachelors were suspect, the subject of collective social wonder.
Today, marriage is more discretionary than ever, and also more distinctive. It is something young adults do after they and their live-in partners have good jobs and a nice apartment. It has become the capstone experience of personal life -- the last brick put in place after everything else is set. People marry to show their family and friends how well their lives are going, even if deep down they are unsure whether their partnership will last a lifetime.
Consider weddings, which typically were formal ceremonies planned and paid for by the parents. Not anymore: According to the American Wedding Study, commissioned by Brides magazine, 36 percent of couples paid the entire cost of their wedding receptions in 2012, up from 29 percent in 2009; and another 26 percent contributed to the cost. As more couples plan and pay for the occasion, its central meaning is shifting from uniting two families to celebrating the bride and groom themselves.
YOUNG adults with greater earning potential, who can afford the capstone celebration, are still marrying in large numbers, while those with poorer economic prospects are holding off. According to the National Center for Family and Marriage Research, 88 percent of 35- to 44-year-old women with four-year college degrees have married, compared with 79 percent of those without high-school diplomas. In fact, young adults without college degrees are increasingly likely to put off marriage and have their first children in cohabiting relationships, sometimes years before they marry. Nearly all of the increase in childbearing outside of marriage in the last two decades is from births to cohabiting couples, most without college degrees, rather than to single mothers.
The weakening link between marriage and childbearing is perhaps best explained by the hollowing out of the middle of the American economy. As jobs have been automated or moved overseas, it has become more difficult for high-school-educated young men to find the kind of steady, well-paying industrial work that sustained their fathers' families. Faced with this situation, many of them are willing to live in short-term cohabiting relationships but not to make a lifetime commitment to marriage. Young women, for their part, may choose to have children in these short-term unions rather than wait for the uncertain prospect of marriage. In a cultural climate in which having children outside of marriage is increasingly acceptable, non-college-educated young adults seem to treat reproduction as mandatory or at least axiomatic, and marriage as more of an optional add-on. Most do eventually marry, although not necessarily to the person they had their first child with.
In contrast, more than 90 percent of American women with four-year college degrees wait until after they are married to have children. College-educated young adults foresee a brighter economic future that can sustain marriages. They may live with a partner first, and may postpone marriage until after earning graduate school degrees or establishing themselves in careers, but they are content to wait until marriage before having children. Moreover, their marriages are lasting longer -- since 1980 the divorce rate has dropped faster for those with college degrees, so that about one in six of their marriages ends in divorce in the first 10 years, compared with nearly one in two marriages among people without high school degrees.
College-educated Americans constitute the winners in our new economy and they are sticking with long-term marriage as a context for rearing children.
In the 1970s, when cohabitation began to increase and divorce rates skyrocketed, it seemed marriage might fade away. Four decades later it remains an important part of American life -- not in its older role as the first step into adulthood, but in its newer role as the last step one takes after becoming an adult in almost all other respects.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY LUCI GUTIÉRREZ)
CHARTS: Waiting Longer
(Lots) More People Living Together
Fewer People Getting Married
What Makes an Adult? (Sources: National Center for Family and Marriage Research, Bowling Green State University
 National Opinion Research Center, General Social Survey.) (CHARTS BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (88%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



878 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; A VULNERABLE AGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1753 words

HEADLINE: Loans Borrowed Against Pensions Squeeze Retirees

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
To retirees, the offers can sound like the answer to every money worry: convert tomorrow's pension checks into today's hard cash.
But these offers, known as pension advances, are having devastating financial consequences for a growing number of older Americans, threatening their retirement savings and plunging them further into debt. The advances, federal and state authorities say, are not advances at all, but carefully disguised loans that require borrowers to sign over all or part of their monthly pension checks. They carry interest rates that are often many times higher than those on credit cards.
In lean economic times, people with public pensions -- military veterans, teachers, firefighters, police officers and others -- are being courted particularly aggressively by pension-advance companies, which operate largely outside of state and federal banking regulations, but are now drawing scrutiny from Congress and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The pitches come mostly via the Web or ads in local circulars. 
''Convert your pension into CASH,'' LumpSum Pension Advance, of Irvine, Calif., says on its Web site. ''Banks are hiding,'' says Pension Funding L.L.C., of Huntington Beach, Calif., on its Web site, signaling the paucity of credit. ''But you do have your pension benefits.''
Another ad on that Web site is directed at military veterans: ''You've put your life on the line for Americans to protect our way of life. You deserve to do something important for yourself.''
A review by The New York Times of more than two dozen contracts for pension-based loans found that after factoring in various fees, the effective interest rates ranged from 27 percent to 106 percent -- information not disclosed in the ads or in the contracts themselves. Furthermore, to qualify for one of the loans, borrowers are sometimes required to take out a life insurance policy that names the lender as the sole beneficiary.
LumpSum Pension Advance and Pension Funding did not return calls and e-mails for comment.
While it is difficult to say precisely how many financially struggling people have taken out pension loans, legal aid offices in Arizona, California, Florida and New York say they have recently encountered a surge in complaints from retirees who have run into trouble with the loans.
Ronald E. Govan, a Marine Corps veteran in Snellville, Ga., paid an interest rate of more than 36 percent on a pension-based loan. He said he was enraged that veterans were being targeted by the firm, Pensions, Annuities & Settlements, which did not return calls for comment.
''I served for this country,'' said Mr. Govan, a Vietnam veteran, ''and this is what I get in return.''
The allure of borrowing against pensions underscores an abrupt reversal in the financial fortunes of many retirees in recent years, as well as the efforts by a number of financial firms, including payday lenders and debt collectors, to market directly to them.
The pension-advance firms geared up before the financial crisis to woo a vast and wealthy generation of Americans heading for retirement. Before the housing bust and recession forced many people to defer retirement and to run up debt, lenders marketed the pension-based loan largely to military members as a risk-free option for older Americans looking to take a dream vacation or even buy a yacht. ''Splurge,'' one advertisement in 2004 suggested.
Now, pension-advance firms are repositioning themselves to appeal to people in and out of the military who need cash to cover basic living expenses, according to interviews with borrowers, lawyers, regulators and advocates for the elderly.
''The cost of these pension transactions can be astronomically high,'' said Stuart Rossman, a lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center, an advocacy group that works on issues of economic justice for low-income people.
''But there is profit to be made on older Americans' financial pain.''
The oldest members of the baby boom generation became eligible for Social Security during the recent housing bust and recession, and many nearing retirement age watched their investments plummet in value. Some are now sliding deep into debt to make ends meet.
The pitches for pension loans emphasize how difficult it can be for retirees with scant savings and checkered credit histories to borrow money, especially because banks typically do not count pension income when considering loan applications.
''The result often leaves retired pensioners viewed like other unqualified borrowers,'' one of the lenders, DFR Pension Funding, says on its Web site. That, the firm says, ''can make the 'golden years' not so golden.''
The combined debt of Americans from the ages of 65 to 74 is rising faster than that of any other age group, according to data from the Federal Reserve. For households led by people 65 and older, median debt levels have surged more than 50 percent, rising from $12,000 in 2000 to $26,000 in 2011, according to the latest data available from the Census Bureau.
While American adults of all ages ran up debt in good times, older Americans today are shouldering unusually heavy burdens. According to a 2012 study by Demos, a liberal-leaning public policy organization, households headed by people 50 and older have an average balance of more than $8,000 on their credit cards.
Meanwhile, households headed by people age 75 and older devoted 7.1 percent of their total income to debt payments in 2010, up from 4.5 percent in 2007, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute.
Financial products like pension advances, which promise quick cash, appear especially enticing because their long-term costs are largely hidden from the borrowers.
Federal and state regulators are spotting fresh examples of abuse, and both the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Senate's Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions are examining these loans, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
Though the firms are not directly regulated by states, officials from the California Department of Corporations, the state's top financial services regulator, filed a desist-and-refrain order against a pension-advance firm in 2011 for failing to disclose critical information to investors.
That firm has since filed for bankruptcy, but a department spokesman said it remained watchful of pension-advance products.
''As the state regulator charged with protecting investors, we are aware of this type of offer and are very concerned with the companies that abuse it to defraud people,'' said the spokesman, Mark Leyes.
Borrowing against pensions can help some retirees, elder-care lawyers say. But, like payday loans, which are commonly aimed at lower-income borrowers, pension loans can turn ruinous for people who are already financially vulnerable, because of the loans' high costs.
Some of the concern on abuse focuses on service members. Last year, more than 2.1 million military retirees received pensions, along with roughly 2.6 million federal employees, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Lawyers for service members argue that pension lending flouts federal laws that restrict how military pensions can be used.
Mr. Govan, the retired Marine, considered himself a credit ''outcast'' after his credit score was battered by a foreclosure in 2008 and a personal bankruptcy in 2010.
Unable to get a bank loan or credit card to supplement his pension income, Mr. Govan, now 59, applied for a payday loan online to pay for repairs to his truck.
Days later, he received a solicitation by e-mail from Pensions, Annuities & Settlements, based in Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Govan said the offer of quick, seemingly easy cash sounded too good to refuse. He said he agreed to sign over $353 a month of his $1,033 monthly disability pension for five years in exchange for $10,000 in cash up front. Those terms, including fees and finance charges, work out to an effective annual interest rate of more than 36 percent. After Mr. Govan belatedly did the math, he was shocked.
''It's just wrong,'' said Mr. Govan, who filed a federal lawsuit in February that raises questions about the costs of the loan.
Pitches to military members must sidestep a federal law that prevents veterans from automatically turning over pension payments to third parties. Pension-advance firms encourage veterans to establish separate bank accounts controlled by the firms where pension payments are deposited first and then sent to the lenders. Lawyers for retirees have challenged the pension-advance firms in courts across the United States, claiming that they illegally seize military members' pensions and violate state limits on interest rates.
To circumvent state usury laws that cap loan rates, some pension advance firms insist their products are advances, not loans, according to the firms' Web sites and federal and state lawsuits. On its Web site, Pension Funding asks, ''Is this a loan against my pension?'' The answer, it says, is no. ''It is an advance, not a loan,'' the site says.
The advance firms have evolved from a range of different lenders; some made loans against class-action settlements, while others were subprime lenders that made installment and other short-term loans.
The bankrupt firm in California, Structured Investments, has been dogged by legal challenges virtually from the start. The firm was founded in 1996 by Ronald P. Steinberg and Steven P. Covey, an Army veteran who had been convicted of felony bank fraud in 1994, according to court records.
To attract investors, the firm promised an 8 percent return and ''an opportunity to own a cash stream of payments generated from U.S. military service persons,'' according to the California Department of Corporations. Mr. Covey, according to company registration records, is also associated with Pension Funding L.L.C. Neither Mr. Covey nor Mr. Steinberg returned calls for comment. In 2011, a California judge ordered Structured Investments to pay $2.9 million to 61 veterans who had filed a class action.
But the veterans, among them Daryl Henry, retired Navy disbursing clerk, first class, in Laurel, Md., who received a $42,131 pension loan at a rate of 26.8 percent, have not received any relief.
Robert Bramson, a lawyer who represented Mr. Henry in the class-action lawsuit, said that pensioners too often failed to contemplate the long-term costs of the advances.
''It's simply a terrible deal,'' he said.
Vulnerable Age: This series will examine financial challenges and pitfalls faced by older Americans in lean economic times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald E. Govan, a retired veteran in Snellville, Ga., filed a federal suit in February that raises concerns about the costs of a loan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) CHART: Breakdown of a Loan's Questionable Terms: Ronald E. Govan, a disabled military veteran, took out a loan from Pension, Annuities & Settlements in September 2012. (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); VETERANS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); WEB SITES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); BANKING LAW (68%); INSURANCE POLICIES (65%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); LEGAL AID (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



879 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Dispelling Stereotypes, On Stage And Off

BYLINE: By HENRY HOLDEN. 
As told to Perry Garfinkel.

 BODY:
IF the unemployment statistics still seem disappointing for those hoping to join or rejoin the work force, consider this: The unemployment rate for Americans with disabilities is 75 percent higher than for those with no disabilities, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
As someone who was left walking with crutches since the polio epidemic of 1952, I know firsthand about the difficulties finding employment. Often, we're fighting against negative stereotypes foisted on society by the powerful influences of film, television and other media. Just as often, we're our own worst enemies, internalizing these self-defeating stereotypes. 
In my years in the job market -- as an insurance salesman, a teacher, a stand-up comedian, a motivational speaker and a stage, film and TV actor -- I've suffered my share of humiliating rejections. But those rejections eventually helped me develop some successful job search strategies.
In 1970, fresh out of college, I had a rude awakening when I started looking for a job. But it taught me early on that when one door closes in your face, you should knock on another. I had applied to get a teaching certificate at one university, hoping to eventually work with first graders. The admissions person told me: ''Children can be cruel. We do not think you should teach.''
So I applied and got into Newark State College, now Kean University, where I obtained certification. Then, when I did teach first graders, they weren't cruel; in fact, they were more inspiring to me than I was to them.
A little more than a year later, I interviewed to become a special sales agent for an insurance company. The interviewer was reluctant to hire me. ''People with disabilities are not perceived as good advertisements for life insurance,'' he said. I suggested that my engaging personality would more than compensate for people's perceptions. He gave me a shot and I became one of the company's top salesmen in my first year.
It's been a particularly uphill struggle pursuing an acting career, a passion of mine since high school. I grew up with no role models in TV or film -- except in telethons, and then it was to garner pity -- and there are still so very few. While African-Americans, gays and women have broken the glass ceiling of diversity in TV and films, roles for people with disabilities remain the last frontier.
As my manager, Doug Cosgro at Noble Artists in Los Angeles, told me, ''There are only two rules in this town: always look great and never look bad.'' So I try to look my best all the time. On stage, or even just out around town, I wear a tuxedo with a ruffled shirt and I accessorize with my crutches, choosing from a dozen options, formal to funky.
Studying method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theater and Film Institute in New York, we did exercises making weird faces and awkward physical gestures. You have to be really secure with your body image to pull that off. Gaining security with my body eventually went to my head.
''Presence'' is an elusive but much desired quality. To improve mine, I became a stand-up comic. There's nothing like humor to relieve people's awkwardness about seeming disabilities or disadvantages. So I opened my comedy club act by standing stage center, leaning on my crutches, and saying, ''You're looking at the pope's most amazing miracle: I went to him with a speech impediment and he cured it.''
Confidence is also not so easy to achieve, but in another acting class I was told, ''If you don't feel positive, just act it.'' In auditions and other interviews, I act the part of someone who is sure he'll get the role -- and I often do.
ONE thing I can't take sitting down is being ignored. At industry film screenings, I've walked up to important directors and proffered my business card. ''You'll never see me because casting directors are too prejudiced to bring me in for auditions,'' I've said, ''so I'd like to give you my card and hope you check me out.'' They haven't called -- yet -- but sometimes just making the point slowly changes attitudes. I helped form the Performers With Disabilities Committee of the Screen Actors Guild when I realized that I couldn't change these misperceptions alone.
When I was in elementary school, someone wanted to help me off a bus. I said, ''You can help me off the bus now, thank you, but then you'll have to be here every day.'' Translation: ''What am I going to do when you're not here?''
I await the role that earns me an Oscar for best supporting actor, and I'll walk up to the stage without anyone's support. But thank you for offering.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Holden, who has used crutches since the 1950s, says humor can ''relieve people's awkwardness about seeming disabilities or disadvantages.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); FILM (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WOMEN (77%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); INSURANCE (74%); SALES FORCE (74%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); EPIDEMICS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



880 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2306 words

HEADLINE: No Rich Child Left Behind

BYLINE: By SEAN F. REARDON

 BODY:
Here's a fact that may not surprise you: the children of the rich perform better in school, on average, than children from middle-class or poor families. Students growing up in richer families have better grades and higher standardized test scores, on average, than poorer students; they also have higher rates of participation in extracurricular activities and school leadership positions, higher graduation rates and higher rates of college enrollment and completion.
Whether you think it deeply unjust, lamentable but inevitable, or obvious and unproblematic, this is hardly news. It is true in most societies and has been true in the United States for at least as long as we have thought to ask the question and had sufficient data to verify the answer.
What is news is that in the United States over the last few decades these differences in educational success between high- and lower-income students have grown substantially. 
One way to see this is to look at the scores of rich and poor students on standardized math and reading tests over the last 50 years. When I did this using information from a dozen large national studies conducted between 1960 and 2010, I found that the rich-poor gap in test scores is about 40 percent larger now than it was 30 years ago.
To make this trend concrete, consider two children, one from a family with income of $165,000 and one from a family with income of $15,000. These incomes are at the 90th and 10th percentiles of the income distribution nationally, meaning that 10 percent of children today grow up in families with incomes below $15,000 and 10 percent grow up in families with incomes above $165,000.
In the 1980s, on an 800-point SAT-type test scale, the average difference in test scores between two such children would have been about 90 points; today it is 125 points. This is almost twice as large as the 70-point test score gap between white and black children. Family income is now a better predictor of children's success in school than race.
The same pattern is evident in other, more tangible, measures of educational success, like college completion. In a study similar to mine, Martha J. Bailey and Susan M. Dynarski, economists at the University of Michigan, found that the proportion of students from upper-income families who earn a bachelor's degree has increased by 18 percentage points over a 20-year period, while the completion rate of poor students has grown by only 4 points.
In a more recent study, my graduate students and I found that 15 percent of high-income students from the high school class of 2004 enrolled in a highly selective college or university, while fewer than 5 percent of middle-income and 2 percent of low-income students did.
These widening disparities are not confined to academic outcomes: new research by the Harvard political scientist Robert D. Putnam and his colleagues shows that the rich-poor gaps in student participation in sports, extracurricular activities, volunteer work and church attendance have grown sharply as well.
In San Francisco this week, more than 14,000 educators and education scholars have gathered for the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association. The theme this year is familiar: Can schools provide children a way out of poverty?
We are still talking about this despite decades of clucking about the crisis in American education and wave after wave of school reform.Whatever we've been doing in our schools, it hasn't reduced educational inequality between children from upper- and lower-income families.
Part of knowing what we should do about this is understanding how and why these educational disparities are growing. For the past few years, alongside other scholars, I have been digging into historical data to understand just that. The results of this research don't always match received wisdom or playground folklore.
The most potent development over the past three decades is that the test scores of children from high-income families have increased very rapidly. Before 1980, affluent students had little advantage over middle-class students in academic performance; most of the socioeconomic disparity in academics was between the middle class and the poor. But the rich now outperform the middle class by as much as the middle class outperform the poor. Just as the incomes of the affluent have grown much more rapidly than those of the middle class over the last few decades, so, too, have most of the gains in educational success accrued to the children of the rich.
Before we can figure out what's happening here, let's dispel a few myths.
The income gap in academic achievement is not growing because the test scores of poor students are dropping or because our schools are in decline. In fact, average test scores on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, the so-called Nation's Report Card, have been rising -- substantially in math and very slowly in reading -- since the 1970s. The average 9-year-old today has math skills equal to those her parents had at age 11, a two-year improvement in a single generation. The gains are not as large in reading and they are not as large for older students, but there is no evidence that average test scores have declined over the last three decades for any age or economic group.
The widening income disparity in academic achievement is not a result of widening racial gaps in achievement, either. The achievement gaps between blacks and whites, and Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites have been narrowing slowly over the last two decades, trends that actually keep the yawning gap between higher- and lower-income students from getting even wider. If we look at the test scores of white students only, we find the same growing gap between high- and low-income children as we see in the population as a whole.
It may seem counterintuitive, but schools don't seem to produce much of the disparity in test scores between high- and low-income students. We know this because children from rich and poor families score very differently on school readiness tests when they enter kindergarten, and this gap grows by less than 10 percent between kindergarten and high school. There is some evidence that achievement gaps between high- and low-income students actually narrow during the nine-month school year, but they widen again in the summer months.
That isn't to say that there aren't important differences in quality between schools serving low- and high-income students -- there certainly are -- but they appear to do less to reinforce the trends than conventional wisdom would have us believe.
If not the usual suspects, what's going on? It boils down to this: The academic gap is widening because rich students are increasingly entering kindergarten much better prepared to succeed in school than middle-class students. This difference in preparation persists through elementary and high school.
My research suggests that one part of the explanation for this is rising income inequality. As you may have heard, the incomes of the rich have grown faster over the last 30 years than the incomes of the middle class and the poor. Money helps families provide cognitively stimulating experiences for their young children because it provides more stable home environments, more time for parents to read to their children, access to higher-quality child care and preschool and -- in places like New York City, where 4-year-old children take tests to determine entry into gifted and talented programs -- access to preschool test preparation tutors or the time to serve as tutors themselves.
But rising income inequality explains, at best, half of the increase in the rich-poor academic achievement gap. It's not just that the rich have more money than they used to, it's that they are using it differently. This is where things get really interesting.
High-income families are increasingly focusing their resources -- their money, time and knowledge of what it takes to be successful in school -- on their children's cognitive development and educational success. They are doing this because educational success is much more important than it used to be, even for the rich.
With a college degree insufficient to ensure a high-income job, or even a job as a barista, parents are now investing more time and money in their children's cognitive development from the earliest ages. It may seem self-evident that parents with more resources are able to invest more -- more of both money and of what Mr. Putnam calls '''Goodnight Moon' time'' -- in their children's development. But even though middle-class and poor families are also increasing the time and money they invest in their children, they are not doing so as quickly or as deeply as the rich.
The economists Richard J. Murnane and Greg J. Duncan report that from 1972 to 2006 high-income families increased the amount they spent on enrichment activities for their children by 150 percent, while the spending of low-income families grew by 57 percent over the same time period. Likewise, the amount of time parents spend with their children has grown twice as fast since 1975 among college-educated parents as it has among less-educated parents. The economists Garey Ramey and Valerie A. Ramey of the University of California, San Diego, call this escalation of early childhood investment ''the rug rat race,'' a phrase that nicely captures the growing perception that early childhood experiences are central to winning a lifelong educational and economic competition.
It's not clear what we should do about all this. Partly that's because much of our public conversation about education is focused on the wrong culprits: we blame failing schools and the behavior of the poor for trends that are really the result of deepening income inequality and the behavior of the rich.
We're also slow to understand what's happening, I think, because the nature of the problem -- a growing educational gap between the rich and the middle class -- is unfamiliar. After all, for much of the last 50 years our national conversation about educational inequality has focused almost exclusively on strategies for reducing inequalities between the educational successes of the poor and the middle class, and it has relied on programs aimed at the poor, like Head Start and Title I.
We've barely given a thought to what the rich were doing. With the exception of our continuing discussion about whether the rising costs of higher education are pricing the middle class out of college, we don't have much practice talking about what economists call ''upper-tail inequality'' in education, much less success at reducing it.
Meanwhile, not only are the children of the rich doing better in school than even the children of the middle class, but the changing economy means that school success is increasingly necessary to future economic success, a worrisome mutual reinforcement of trends that is making our society more socially and economically immobile.
We need to start talking about this. Strangely, the rapid growth in the rich-poor educational gap provides a ray of hope: if the relationship between family income and educational success can change this rapidly, then it is not an immutable, inevitable pattern. What changed once can change again. Policy choices matter more than we have recently been taught to think.
So how can we move toward a society in which educational success is not so strongly linked to family background? Maybe we should take a lesson from the rich and invest much more heavily as a society in our children's educational opportunities from the day they are born. Investments in early-childhood education pay very high societal dividends. That means investing in developing high-quality child care and preschool that is available to poor and middle-class children. It also means recruiting and training a cadre of skilled preschool teachers and child care providers. These are not new ideas, but we have to stop talking about how expensive and difficult they are to implement and just get on with it.
But we need to do much more than expand and improve preschool and child care. There is a lot of discussion these days about investing in teachers and ''improving teacher quality,'' but improving the quality of our parenting and of our children's earliest environments may be even more important. Let's invest in parents so they can better invest in their children.
This means finding ways of helping parents become better teachers themselves. This might include strategies to support working families so that they can read to their children more often.. It also means expanding programs like the Nurse-Family Partnership that have proved to be effective at helping single parents educate their children; but we also need to pay for research to develop new resources for single parents.
It might also mean greater business and government support for maternity and paternity leave and day care so that the middle class and the poor can get some of the educational benefits that the early academic intervention of the rich provides their children. Fundamentally, it means rethinking our still-persistent notion that educational problems should be solved by schools alone.
The more we do to ensure that all children have similar cognitively stimulating early childhood experiences, the less we will have to worry about failing schools. This in turn will enable us to let our schools focus on teaching the skills -- how to solve complex problems, how to think critically and how to collaborate -- essential to a growing economy and a lively democracy.
Sean F. Reardon is a professor of education and sociology at Stanford.
This is an excerpt from The Great Divide, a series on inequality, at nytimes.com/opinionator.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN) (SR4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



881 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Pay Lower Fees to Send Money Home, Helping to Ease Poverty

BYLINE: By NATALIE KITROEFF

 BODY:
The first time Carmen Gonzalez sent money back to her family in Mexico, in 1991, Western Union charged her a $12 fee to wire $100. She earned that $12 working for six hours in a clothing factory in midtown Manhattan, which paid her $2 an hour.
These days Ms. Gonzalez pays $5, which she earns in less than an hour, so she sends a bit more. The family is benefiting from a financial transformation propelled by new technology and increased competition that has driven down the average cost of sending money to Mexico by nearly 80 percent since 1999.
The drop in fees saved Mexican immigrants about $12 billion over the decade that ended in 2010 -- five times the amount of official United States aid to Mexico during that time, according to data from the World Bank and recent Mexican government figures. The cost of sending money to other countries has also declined sharply, though not by quite as much.
The benefits are far-reaching, development experts say, providing a powerful means to chip away at poverty in other countries and expanding the hard-won earnings of immigrants in the United States. 
The lower costs may be one reason that remittances have held steady even as fewer immigrants from Mexico have come to the United States and the recession has cut into incomes. Overall remittances to Mexico declined during the global recession but picked up again after 2009.
Some experts say more money could flow to countries like Mexico if Congress approves an immigration overhaul granting a path to citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants, because studies have shown that legalization can lead to increased wages. Others argue that with legalization, many immigrants will invest more heavily in the United States, sending less of their income back to relatives.
The total remittance transfers sent across the globe from the United States in recent years are almost $50 billion annually, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, or roughly the equivalent of the government's foreign aid budget. (Estimates by the World Bank suggest that the figure is significantly higher, close to $100 billion per year, according to Dilip Ratha, an economist who leads the World Bank's remittances program.)
''Remittances may well be the best single way to foment development,'' said Nancy Birdsall, the president of the Center for Global Development, a nonprofit research group in Washington. ''It turns out that even a modest reduction in the cost of making remittance transfers adds up to a substantial amount compared to official aid.''
Estefana Bautista, who left two children in her native Mexico when she immigrated to Texas in 2005, said she pays $5 less to send them money now than when she first arrived, which she called ''a big help.'' ''I send those 5 dollars to Mexico,'' Ms. Bautista said. ''My kids know that they're getting a little more money every two weeks.''
Growing competition among transfer companies has been the driving force behind the steady decline in costs. A decade ago, Western Union and Money Gram dominated the market. Now they contend with dozens of international competitors like Xoom and Ria.
Western Union's share of the global remittance market has dropped to about 15 percent from around 75 percent in the late 1990s, while Money Gram's market share has declined to 5 percent from 22 percent in that time, according to the companies and government figures.
''What we're really seeing is competition not just based on price, but also on service quality,'' said W. Alexander Holmes, the chief financial officer of MoneyGram. ''It's a very interesting time in the market.''
Worldwide, costs for sending remittances to any country have come down from around 15 percent per $300 transaction in the late 1990s to below 10 percent today, Mr. Ratha said. For money sent to Mexico, costs have declined from 9.5 percent per $300 to just over 2 percent today.
In addition to fees covering the processing, remittance companies make money from converting currencies. Remittance experts say these exchange rate fees have not come down nearly as much in recent years. In a meeting in 2011, finance ministers from the Group of 20 countries committed to reducing remittance costs over all from around 10 percent to 5 percent per transaction by 2014.
This month, a bipartisan group in the Senate introduced proposals to allow immigrants here illegally to gain legal status and eventually become citizens.
Manuel Orozco, a remittances expert at the Inter-American Dialogue, a research group in Washington, said legalization could also lead to higher wages for this group of immigrants, who could in turn send along more of their disposable income.
According to Mr. Orozco's analysis, undocumented Latin Americans send about 10 percent less money home than legal immigrants, partly because of low earnings. He estimates that legalizing that population would drastically increase overall remittance flows to Latin America.
However, other experts contend that widespread legalization may not increase income for these immigrants.
''Most of the reason that illegal immigrants earn low wages is not their illegality, it's their lack of education,'' said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, adding that legalization ''is not a life-changing development, as far as their earning power goes.''
Demetrios Papademetriou, the president of the Migration Policy Institute, said that while a path to citizenship would certainly increase the earnings of undocumented immigrants being exploited by employers, those at the higher end of the labor market might not see an increase in income until the job market improves. ''It may not be easy for them to move into new jobs that will pay much better than the current jobs that they have,'' Mr. Papademetriou said.
He added that in the long term, granting unauthorized immigrants legal status could actually make them less likely to send large sums of money abroad. ''What you're likely to see is a psychological and emotional shift toward the family here because now they're safe and they're permanently here,'' he said.
Lower remittance fees have made things easier for Ms. Gonzalez's youngest daughter, Itzel, who was born in the United States and lives with the family in Harlem. When Itzel was in middle school, her mother remembers her saying: ''I don't need brand-name shoes or clothes, but the computer, yes. That's my tool to keep moving forward.''
So Ms. Gonzalez saved for the next three years and bought Itzel an Apple laptop for her 15th birthday. Three years later, Itzel won a scholarship to Haverford College. ''The only one of my children that made it to college was Itzel,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''So I say, you see? It is worth fighting and making sacrifices.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carmen Gonzalez, who immigrated from Mexico in 1991, says that the cost to send money home has dropped to $5 from $12. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPAREL MFG (72%); CHILDREN (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); APPROVALS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); WESTERN UNION CO (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); WU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



882 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES | THE HIGH BRIDGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Beauty on the Comeback Trail

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
Many people are waiting for the reopening next year of the High Bridge's pedestrian walkway across the Harlem River.
However delightful the Sunday promenade 140 feet up will be, the experience cannot compare to the original grandeur of the bridge itself, an engineering marvel when it was completed in 1848 to carry the Croton Aqueduct from the Bronx to Manhattan. But it suffered a grievous blow in the 1920s, when some of its soaring granite piers were knocked out to widen the channel for river traffic, sparking one of New York's earliest preservation battles -- like many others since, unsuccessful.
When the bridge was proposed, two options for carrying the aqueduct across the Harlem River emerged: a low, solid bridge with a single arch in the middle, and a high bridge supported by individual piers. 
In his 2000 book ''Water for Gotham,'' Gerard T. Koeppel gives a full account of the schools of thought. Economy militated in favor of a low bridge, at 50 feet just high enough for most vessels to pass underneath. But the low bridge plan was bitterly opposed by investors who had staked money on creating a canal up the Harlem River over to the Hudson. They protested any possible obstruction, even ramming and damaging an early version of the Macombs Dam Bridge farther south.
Koeppel quotes John B. Jervis, the aqueduct's engineer, as saying that ''engineers are prone to gratify a taste for the magnificent.'' Nevertheless, Jervis was opposed to a high bridge because of the cost difference, $835,000 rather than $425,000.
Despite that, however, high beat low, and a series of 15 soaring arches was built from shore to shore, with a pedestrian walkway on top, 1,450 feet long, with a clearance of 114 feet over the river.
The New York Evening Post called it ''one of the hydraulic wonders of the new world.'' The High Bridge originally had a geyser at one end, praised by one George Schuyler in a letter published by The Morning Courier for spewing ''its enlivening waters to the delight of visitors to this stupendous work.''
And, with rail ferry connections, visit they did, although the sweeping view did not just inspire admiration. There were some suicides, but often people who jumped had another goal in mind. In 1880 The National Police Gazette reported that Robert Donaldson, of ''splendid physique,'' attracted a crowd that ''cheered loudly'' as he jumped, while boats sounded their whistles and horns. He told The Times he would jump from any bridge in America over flat water for $500, and the newspaper helpfully mentioned that he was always to be found at Johnnie Hampson's saloon at 46 West Third Street.
The New York Press reported what seems a suicide scenario on July 6, 1902. Henry Clark, 45, jumped with a letter in his pocket that the newspaper quoted as saying: ''It's all over. I am no use to God or man. So here goes nobody.'' Mr. Clark, The Press said, was mortally injured.
However, a simultaneous account in The Rochester Democrat Chronicle, also published on July 6, has it that Mr. Clark, although indeed depressed, was determined to develop a reputation as a bridge jumper. The Rochester paper recounts his words as he leapt off as, ''Here goes nothing.''
Afterward, the Rochester paper said he had not been seriously injured, and that according to him, his successful jump meant ''it will be easy for me to make a living.'' Indeed, he may never have had another financial care: The Brooklyn Standard Union on July 7 reported that he had died in the hospital.
And there were other species of reckless visitor, as in 1904 when The New York Times reported ''Toughs Bombard Harlem Oarsmen With Stones.''
During World War I, the Army Corps of Engineers decided that the piers posed a hazard to navigation on the Harlem, which had been enlarged for shipping, and ordered the removal of some of them. The suggestion evolved into a proposal to demolish the bridge: the aqueduct was operating but not essential. But in 1922 the American Association of Engineers went to bat for the bridge, saying that tearing it down would be ''an act of savagery.''
It may be that demolition was more expensive than knocking out a few pins. In any event, in 1928 the center five spans were replaced with a workmanlike steel arch -- bitter weeds for anyone familiar with the Roman dignity of the original.
The High Bridge still served as a walkway, but as the city slid into midcentury decay, it became yet another public space that seemed not worth the trouble to police, and it closed around 1970. The Friends of the Old Croton Aqueduct have promoted its recognition and improvement in Westchester and the Bronx, and have been active in bringing the walkway back on line.
Work is under way on what should still be a majestic view of the Harlem River valley, to be compromised somewhat by an eight-foot-high steel fence, to deter the toughs of the 21st century. At the moment, the closest approach in Manhattan is in Highbridge Park, around 173rd Street, and in the Bronx at University Avenue and 170th Street.
To see the bridge from a distance, the engineering pilgrim can brush by the piers at speed on the north- and southbound Major Deegan Expressway.
But a more contemplative view can be had from Depot Place, a tiny stub off Sedgwick Avenue just south of the bridge. There, the granite piers start out from the Bronx shore in perfect majesty, only to be brought to an unseemly halt at the river.
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The High Bridge in about 1849, top left, in a view published by Nathaniel Currier, and above, in 1928 after a steel arch replaced some of its piers to facilitate navigation. The pedestrian walkway over the Harlem River, closed since the 1970s, is to reopen next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (89%); RIVERS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



883 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Heading the Wrong Way

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
At first glance, the latest economic growth report, released Friday, appears to show the economy revving up. In reality, the economy is either stuck in low gear, or worse, slowing to a stop as budget cuts harm not only the users of overstretched government services but the overall economy. This precarious situation urgently calls for more federal spending, not less, though that message has been lost on Congress.
From January through March, the economy grew at a modest annual rate of 2.5 percent, compared with a measly 0.4 percent in the last three months of 2012. That seems like a big jump, but it was less than economists expected and does not alter the big picture. Since the recession ended in mid-2009, quarterly growth has averaged around 2 percent. Every acceleration from that pace has inevitably petered out, which is why unemployment is high and pay is low nearly four years into what is officially an economic recovery. 
Worse, there are signs in the latest report of a renewed slowdown. Excluding inventories, which tend to artificially depress growth in some quarters and raise it in others, growth in the first quarter of 2013 was only 1.5 percent, compared with 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2.4 percent in the third quarter.
Underneath it all is the fiscal drag from ill-advised and ill-timed austerity measures. With the expiration this year of the payroll tax break, personal income declined sharply last quarter, forcing consumers to draw on their savings to support their spending. That is unsustainable, presaging weaker consumption in the months to come and, with it, weaker overall growth.
At the same time, cutbacks in government spending took a big chunk out of growth, reflecting, in part, the onset of automatic budget cuts under the sequester. The hit from lower public spending will only intensify in the quarters to come as the sequester takes full effect, threatening to push growth below its already paltry 2 percent average.
There is a tendency, in the gloom, to look for bright spots. Housing, for example, showed continued growth in the first quarter, but it was more than offset by the drag from cuts in government spending. If overall growth remains sluggish or even slows down, that could overwhelm the housing recovery, because the pace of home sales is inseparable from the pace of the economy. Without enough growth to power jobs and pay, potential homeowners will simply not have the income and credit profiles to buy.
Lack of demand is also bound to take an increasing toll on corporate earnings, which also have been a bright spot. Already, some prominent companies, including I.B.M. and Caterpillar, have reported disappointing results, a reflection of waning demand not only in the United States but in recessionary Europe and in China, where growth has been below expectations. The longer and more widespread the weakness is, the less faith investors will have in the ability of the Federal Reserve to engineer a rebound. The real danger in the Fed's efforts to revive the economy is not that its actions will cause inflation -- of which there is no evidence -- but that they will fail to revive the economy by any meaningful measure, denting investor confidence and, in the process, the stock market.
That is not to blame the Fed. For years, Congress and the Obama administration have been working at cross-purposes to the Fed, as strategies to cut the budget have taken priority over strategies to increase growth, jobs and pay. Republicans have insisted on austerity for ideological and political reasons. The administration has done better by adding new taxes and investments to the cuts, but the reductions are still deep and damaging. The budget fights have endured even as the intellectual arguments for near-term deficit reduction have collapsed. They have endured even as the economies that have enforced budget cuts most strenuously have contracted, notably in Britain and in much of the rest of Europe. And they endure even as the United States remains impaired by fiscal wounds that are, unfortunately and undeniably, self-inflicted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



884 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2492 words

HEADLINE: Before Bombs, a Battered American Dream

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG, DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and SERGE F. KOVALESKI; Deborah Sontag and Serge F. Kovaleski reported from Boston, and David M. Herszenhorn from Makhachkala, Russia. Reporting was contributed by Michael Schwirtz, John Eligon, Ian Lovett and Dina Kraft from Boston; Andrew Roth from Makhachkala; Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Julia Preston from New York; and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow. Kitty Bennett and Sheelagh McNeill contributed research.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- It was a blow the immigrant boxer could not withstand: after capturing his second consecutive title as the Golden Gloves heavyweight champion of New England in 2010, Tamerlan Anzorovich Tsarnaev, 23, was barred from the national Tournament of Champions because he was not a United States citizen.
The cocksure fighter, a flamboyant dresser partial to white fur and snakeskin, had been looking forward to redeeming the loss he suffered the previous year in the first round, when the judges awarded his opponent the decision, drawing boos from spectators who considered Mr. Tsarnaev dominant.
From one year to the next, though, the tournament rules had changed, disqualifying legal permanent residents -- not only Mr. Tsarnaev, who was Soviet-born of Chechen and Dagestani heritage, but several other New England contenders, too. His aspirations frustrated, he dropped out of boxing competition entirely, and his life veered in a completely different direction. 
Mr. Tsarnaev portrayed his quitting as a reflection of the sport's incompatibility with his growing devotion to Islam. But as dozens of interviews with friends, acquaintances and relatives from Cambridge, Mass., to Dagestan showed, that devotion, and the suspected radicalization that accompanied it, was a path he followed most avidly only after his more secular dreams were dashed in 2010 and he was left adrift.
His trajectory eventually led the frustrated athlete and his loyal younger brother, Dzhokhar, to bomb one of the most famous athletic events in this country, killing three and wounding more than 200 at the Boston Marathon, the authorities say. They say it led Mr. Tsarnaev, his application for citizenship stalled, and his brother, a new citizen and a seemingly well-adjusted college student, to attack their American hometown on Patriots' Day, April 15.
Mr. Tsarnaev now lies in the state medical examiner's office, his body riddled with bullets after a confrontation with the police four days after the bombings. He left behind an American-born wife who had converted to Islam, a 3-year-old daughter with curly hair, a 19-year-old brother charged with using a weapon of mass destruction, and a puzzle: Why did these two young men seemingly turn on the country that had granted them asylum?
Examining their lives for clues, the authorities have focused on Mr. Tsarnaev's six-month trip to the Russian republics of Chechnya and Dagestan last year. But in Cambridge, sitting on the front steps of the ramshackle, brown-shingled house where the Tsarnaev family lived for a decade, their 79-year-old landlady urged a longer lens.
''He certainly wasn't radicalized in Dagestan,'' the landlady, Joanna Herlihy, said.
Ms. Herlihy, who speaks Russian and was friends with the Tsarnaevs, said she told law enforcement officials that his trip clearly merited scrutiny. But she said that Mr. Tsarnaev's embrace of Islam had grown more intense before that.
As his religious identification grew fiercer, Mr. Tsarnaev seemed to abandon his once avid pursuit of the American dream. He dropped out of community college and lost interest not just in boxing but also in music; he used to play piano and violin, classical music and rap, and his e-mail address was a clue to how he once saw himself: The_Professor@real-hiphop.com He worked only sporadically, sometimes as a pizza deliverer, and he grew first a close-cropped beard and then a flowing one.
He seemed isolated, too. Since his return from Dagestan, he, his wife and his child were the only Tsarnaevs living full time in the three-bedroom apartment on Ms. Herlihy's third floor.
Mr. Tsarnaev's two younger sisters had long since married and moved out; his parents, now separated, had returned to Dagestan, his mother soon after a felony arrest on shoplifting charges; and his brother had left for the University of Massachusetts at Dartmouth, returning home only on the occasional weekend, as he did recently after damaging his 1999 green Honda Civic by texting while driving.
''When Dzhokhar used to come home on Friday night from the dormitory, Tamerlan used to hug him and kiss him -- hold him, like, because he was a big, big boy, Tamerlan,'' their mother, Zubeidat, 45, said last week, adding that her older son had been ''handsome like Hercules.''
Not long after he gave up his boxing career, Mr. Tsarnaev married Katherine Russell of Rhode Island in a brief Islamic ceremony at a Dorchester mosque in June 2010. She has declined to speak publicly since the attacks.
His wife primarily supported the family through her job as a home health aide, scraping together about $1,200 a month to pay the rent. While she worked, Mr. Tsarnaev looked after their daughter, Zahira, who was learning to ride the tricycle still parked beside the house, neighbors said. The family's income was supplemented by public assistance and food stamps from September 2011 to November 2012, state officials said.
It was probably not the life that Anzor Tsarnaev had imagined for his oldest child, who, even as a boy, before he developed the broad-shouldered physique that his mother described as ''a masterpiece,'' dreamed of becoming a famous boxer.
But then the father's life had not gone as planned, either. Once an official in the prosecutor's office in Kyrgyzstan, he had been reduced to working as an unlicensed mechanic in the back lot of a rug store in Cambridge.
''He was out there in the snow and cold, freezing his hands to do this work on people's cars,'' said Chris Walter, owner of the store, Yayla Tribal Rug. ''I did not charge him for the space because he was a poor, struggling guy with a good heart.''
Tamerlan Tsarnaev was born on Oct. 21, 1986, five years before the dissolution of the Soviet Union, in Kalmykia, a barren stretch of Russian territory by the Caspian Sea. A photograph of him as a baby shows a cherubic child wearing a knit cap with a pompom, perched on the lap of his unsmiling mother, who has spiky black bangs and an artful pile of hair. Strikingly, she did not cover her head then, as she does now; she began wearing a hijab only a few years ago, in the United States, prodded by her son just as she was prodding him, too, to deepen his faith.
When he was still little, his parents moved from Kalmykia to Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, where their other three children were born. They left there during the economic crisis of the late 1990s and spent a few brief months in Chechnya, then fled before the full-scale Russian military invasion in 1999. They sought shelter next in his mother's native Dagestan.
In an interview there, Patimat Suleimanova, her sister-in-law, said the family had repeatedly been on the run from war and hardship in those days. ''In search of peace, they kept moving,'' she said.
Finally, Anzor Tsarnaev sought political asylum in the United States. He arrived first, with his younger son, in the spring of 2002. His older son, a young man of 16, followed with the rest of the family in July 2003.
Their neighborhood in Cambridge was run-down, with car repair lots where condominiums have since arisen. But the city has long been especially welcoming to immigrants and refugees; its high school has students from 75 countries.
The schools superintendent, Jeffrey Young, described Cambridge as ''beyond tolerant.''
''How is it that someone could grow up in a place like this and end up in a place like that?'' he said of the Tsarnaevs.
Unlike his little brother, who was well integrated into the community by the time he started high school, Mr. Tsarnaev was a genuine newcomer when he entered the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, from which he graduated in 2006. Enrolled in the large English as a Second Language program, he made friends mostly with other international students, and his demeanor was reserved, one former classmate, Luis Vasquez, said.
''The view on him was that he was a boxer and you would not want to mess with him,'' Mr. Vasquez, now 25 and a candidate for the Cambridge City Council, said. ''He told me that he wanted to represent the U.S. in boxing. He wanted to do the Olympics and then turn pro.''
Jumping right into boxing after his arrival in the United States, he called attention to himself immediately in more ways than one. During registration for a tournament in Lowell, he sat down at a piano and lost himself for 20 minutes in a piece of classical music. The impromptu performance, so out of place in that world, finished to a burst of applause from surprised onlookers.
''He just walked over from the line and started playing like he was in the Boston Pops,'' his trainer at the time, Gene McCarthy, 77, recalled.
Having trained in Dagestan, where sport fighting has an impassioned following, Mr. Tsarnaev boxed straight-legged like a European and not crouched, American-style. He also incorporated showy gymnastics into his training and fighting, walking on his hands, falling into splits, tumbling into corners. So as he started working out in Boston-area clubs -- and winning novice tournament fights -- he made an impression, although not an entirely positive one.
''For a big man, he was very agile,'' said Tom Lee, president of the South Boston Boxing Club. ''He moved like a gazelle and was strong like a horse. He was a big puncher. But he was an underachiever because he did not dedicate himself to the proper training regimen.''
In 2009, Mr. Tsarnaev won the New England Golden Gloves championship in the 201-pound division, which qualified him for the national tournament in Salt Lake City in May. Introducing what would become his signature style, he showed up overdressed, wearing a white silk scarf, black leather pants and mirrored sunglasses.
Stepping into the ring, as The Lowell Sun described it, Mr. Tsarnaev floored Lamar Fenner of Chicago with an explosive punch that required an eight-count from the referee, and then he seemed to control the rest of the fight.
Bob Russo, then the coach of the New England team, said: ''We thought he won. The crowd thought he won. But he didn't.''
Mr. Fenner's mother, Marsha, said her son had called her the night of his ''bout with the bomber,'' thrilled to have defeated an opponent he described as unnervingly strong. Her son, who died of heart problems last year at 29, ended up coming in second in the tournament and turning professional, she said.
If Mr. Tsarnaev was chastened by the defeat, it did not temper his behavior. During a preliminary round of the New England Golden Gloves in 2010, in a breach of boxing etiquette, he entered the locker room to taunt not only the fighter he was about to face but also the fighter's trainer. Wearing a cowboy hat and alligator-skin cowboy boots, he gave the two men a disdainful once-over and said: ''You're nothing. I'm taking you down.''
The trainer, Hector Torres, was furious and subsequently lodged a complaint, arguing that Mr. Tsarnaev should not be allowed to participate in the competition because he was not a citizen.
As it happened, Golden Gloves of America was just then changing its policy. It used to permit legal immigrants to compete in its national tournament three out of every four years, barring them only during Olympic qualifying years, James Beasley, the executive director, said. But it decided in 2010 that the policy was confusing and moved to end all participation by noncitizens in the Tournament of Champions.
So Mr. Tsarnaev, New England heavyweight champion for the second year in a row, was stymied. The immigrant champions in three other weight classes in New England were blocked from advancing, too, Mr. Russo said.
Mr. Tsarnaev was devastated. He was not getting any younger. And he was more than a year away from being even eligible to apply for American citizenship, and there appeared to be a potential obstacle in his path.
The previous summer, Mr. Tsarnaev had been arrested after a report of domestic violence.
His girlfriend at the time had called 911, ''hysterically crying,'' to say he had beaten her up, according to the Cambridge police report. Mr. Tsarnaev told the officers that he had slapped her face because she had been yelling at him about ''another girl.''
Eventually, charges against him would be dismissed, the records show, so the episode would not have endangered his eventual citizenship application.
But his life was changing. He married. He had a child. And he largely withdrew from Cambridge social life, and from many of the friendships he had enjoyed. ''He had liked to party,'' said Elmirza Khozhugov, 26, his former brother-in-law, who lost touch with him in 2010. ''But there was always the sense that he felt a little guilty that he was having too much fun, maybe.''
In 2011, the Russian security service cautioned the F.B.I., and later the C.I.A., that ''since 2010'' Mr. Tsarnaev had ''changed drastically,'' becoming ''a follower of radical Islam.'' The Russians said he was planning a trip to his homeland to connect with underground militant groups. An F.B.I. investigation turned up no ties to extremists, the bureau has said.
In early 2012, Mr. Tsarnaev left his wife and child for a six-month visit to Russia. His parents, speaking in Dagestan, portrayed it as an innocuous visit to reconnect with family and to replace his nearly expired passport from the Republic of Kyrgyzstan with a Russian one. His father said he had kept his son close by his side as they visited relatives, including in Chechnya, and renovated a storefront into a perfume shop.
But American officials say Mr. Tsarnaev arrived in Russia months before his father returned to Dagestan and so did not have the continuous tight supervision described by his father.
Also, Mr. Tsarnaev, with no apparent sense of urgency about his travel documents, waited months to apply for a Russian passport, and returned to the United States before the passport was ready for him.
After his return, Mr. Tsarnaev applied for American citizenship, a year after he was eligible to do so. But the F.B.I. investigation, though closed, had caused his application to be stalled. Underscoring how detached he had become, he no longer had any valid passport, or international travel document, and Cambridge, to which he had a hard time readapting, was now his de facto home more than ever.
He grew a five-inch beard, which he shaved off before the bombings, and interrupted prayers at his mosque on two occasions with outbursts denouncing the idea that Muslims should observe American secular holidays. He engaged neighbors in affable conversations about skiing one week and heated ones about American imperialism the next.
At a neighborhood pizzeria, wearing a head covering that matched his jacket, he explained to Albrecht Ammon, 18, that ''the Koran is great and flawless, and the Bible is ripped off from the Koran, and the U.S. used the Bible as an excuse to invade different countries.''
''I asked him about radical Muslims that blow themselves up and say, 'It's for Allah,' '' Mr. Ammon said. ''And he said he wasn't one of those Muslims.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tamerlan Tsarnaev, right, lost at the Golden Gloves championships in 2009. A year later, a new citizenship rule blocked him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLENN DEPRIEST/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Tamerlan Tsarnaev in Dagestan with, from left, his parents, Anzor and Zubeidat, and an uncle, Muhamad Suleimanov. Below left, Tamerlan behind his brother, Dzhokhar, and sisters. The father and his younger son emigrated to the United States in 2002, and the rest of the family in 2003. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS)
Mr. Tsarnaev's wife, Katherine, in North Kingstown, R.I. Right, his mother, Zubeidat, center, last week with his father, Anzor, and an aunt, Patimat Suleimanova. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ZEZIMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DMITRY KOSTYUKOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (90%); BOXING (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (65%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (64%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); KINGSTOWN, SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (56%) NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



885 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Ready (or Not?) for a Great Coming Shale Boom

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
SWEETWATER -- About a year ago, talk began circulating in this West Texas town about a huge oil-producing formation called the Cline Shale, east of the traditional drilling areas around Midland.
Then the oilmen and their rigs arrived. Now homes and hotels are sprouting, ''help wanted'' signs have multiplied, and a major drilling company has cleared land to build an office and equipment yard.
''It is coming, and it is big,'' said Greg Wortham, the mayor of Sweetwater, who also serves as executive director of the Cline Shale Alliance, a new economic development group.
The Cline Shale, thousands of feet underground in a roughly 10-county swath, is just one of many little-tapped shale formations in Texas and across the nation, geologists say. That means the potential for oil and gas discoveries is theoretically huge, and the reason is technology. The rock-breaking process known as hydraulic fracturing, coupled with the ability to drill horizontally underground, has allowed drillers to retrieve oil and gas from previously inaccessible areas. 
Many shales will be too expensive or too small to develop, especially if oil prices fall or environmental regulations tighten. But in Texas, which is already the top oil-producing state, bullishness about a new era is pervasive.
''We're back into another phase of wildcatting, like the old-timers,'' said Jamie Small, the president of Icon Petroleum, a Midland-based company that has worked in areas including the Cline Shale and another early-stage formation, the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale. Barry Smitherman, chairman of the Railroad Commission of Texas, the state's oil and gas regulatory agency, has said that oil production in Texas could roughly double by 2020.
Much of Texas' production in the near future is likely to come from well-known formations like the Eagle Ford Shale of South Texas and the shales of the Permian Basin of West Texas. Figures from the Railroad Commission show that oil production in the Eagle Ford Shale nearly tripled between 2011 and 2012.
But with oil prices relatively high, around $90 a barrel, the quest for new shales is under way, often in regions where drillers had found oil (as they had in the Cline Shale area) in the pre-fracking era. Nearly every month brings reports of promising explorations, from New Mexico to Alaska, though some reports may deserve to be taken with ''a grain of salt,'' Mr. Small of Icon cautioned. Within Texas, shales besides the Cline that are not household names include the Midway Shale, which is closer to the coast than the Eagle Ford in South Texas, and deeper layers beneath well-known formations in the Permian Basin. There is also shale under Austin, geologists say.
Large-scale extraction of oil and gas from shale is relatively new, which is why modern-day oilmen feel like explorers. Hydraulic fracturing -- or fracking, the process of breaking up underground rock with a high-pressure mix of water, sand and chemicals -- took off in the late 1990s in the Barnett Shale near Fort Worth. In recent years, aided by companies' ability to drill thousands of feet horizontally under the earth, fracking has expanded into areas like the Eagle Ford and the Bakken Shale of North Dakota.
Shale, a fine-grained type of sedimentary rock, underlies much of the nation, according to Mr. Small, a geologist.
In Texas, shales are especially abundant. That is partly because hundreds of millions of years ago, sediment from much of what is now North America washed down toward modern-day Texas, according to Don Van Nieuwenhuise, director of professional geosciences programs at the University of Houston. Marine organisms, from the days when Texas was covered by a shallow sea, were buried and cooked by the earth's heat and eventually became oil.
''We have one of the thickest sedimentary wedges in the world,'' Dr. Van Nieuwenhuise said.
Sedimentary rock in the Gulf of Mexico can reach 50,000 feet in thickness, whereas it is about 3,000 feet thick near the Atlantic coastline, he said. That means that Texas could theoretically drill deeper than current onshore norms of about 10,000 feet to 15,000 feet.
The existence of a shale does not guarantee successful oil and gas production, geologists say. A formation may hold little oil or gas -- or it may not be brittle enough for the fracking process to work effectively. Fracking is expensive; one well can easily cost $4.5 million, Dr. Van Nieuwenhuise said. So drilling is likely to slow if global oil prices drop, as they have slightly from a year ago when they topped $100 per barrel. Natural gas drilling has already been slowed by lower gas prices.
On the other hand, improving technology could boost production.
''The most optimistic of people believe that we've only seen the beginning of a burst of technological innovation, and if you look back from 2020 to fracking techniques in 2013, by 2020 you'll think these are sort of feudal times,'' said Edward Morse, global head of commodities research for Citigroup.
Mr. Morse noted that recent production forecasts had ''fallen short of where production growth has been.'' Still, he said, political or environmental concerns could slow the rush to drill, as could a fall in oil prices.
But with oil prices still high, some areas that were once an afterthought for oilmen feel like boomtowns.
There are ''a lot more people coming in looking for hotels,'' said Mikala Brownfield, manager of the Hampton Inn in San Angelo, a city in the Cline Shale region. She also gets business from oil workers who cannot find rooms in Midland, a two-hour drive away.
Devon Energy, an Oklahoma City-based drilling company known for pioneering work in the Barnett Shale, has opened offices in the past 18 months in San Angelo and Abilene, in addition to the planned Sweetwater location. It has nine rigs operating in the Cline and in the nearby Wolfcamp Shale. ''We've had some encouraging results in the Cline, and we are hopeful and optimistic about our prospects for being successful in this play,'' Chip Minty, a Devon spokesman, said.
Cities with fast-developing shales may find it hard to keep up with the boom.
If the Cline Shale gets going, ''Where are the workers going to be? Where are you going to put them?'' asked Diana Davids Hinton, a professor of history at the University of Texas of the Permian Basin and a co-author of ''Oil in Texas'' (2002). Already, she noted, Midland's hotels and schools are full. (The University of Houston and the University of Texas of the Permian Basin are corporate sponsors of The Texas Tribune.) In Sweetwater, Mr. Wortham acknowledged that housing remained a concern. However, he said, the schools and roads were well prepared, partly because the area had already experienced a build-out of wind farms.
''There's a lot more traffic than there used to be,'' he said. ''And we haven't started yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The office of Greg Wortham, Sweetwater's mayor and executive director of the Cline Shale Alliance, an economic development group.
 A pump jack near wind turbines in the Cline Shale region. Fracking makes many little-tapped formations more accessible. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



886 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Where Sea Lions Romp, Eco Concerns

BYLINE: By ELISABETH EAVES

 BODY:
Something big zoomed by in my peripheral vision. I whipped around for a better look, but whatever it was had disappeared into the permanent twilight of the underwater world. Was it a gigantic grouper? A small whale?
Either was possible, 30 feet below the surface of the Sea of Cortez, which separates the Baja California peninsula from the Mexican mainland. But the shape and high velocity of the apparition were strange. I couldn't place it until another one appeared, then another, and soon more than a dozen, twisting and turning around us seven divers, coming eye-to-eye close before speeding away: sea lions.
I should have figured it out sooner; I knew we were diving near a colony of the pinnipeds. But while I'd seen any number of sea lions above the water line, lolling in the sun or awkwardly dragging their blubbery bodies from rock to rock, I hadn't imagined them transformed into these svelte underwater missiles, each one larger, stronger and faster than a human. 
I was scuba diving in Mexico in the Cabo Pulmo National Marine Park, a 27.5-square-mile ecosystem with an unusual history and an uncertain future. At least 226 fish species live in the park, and it is home to the only living hard coral reef in the Sea of Cortez. But environmentalists fear that a major resort development could significantly alter this delicate fringe of Baja, both above ground and underwater.
Though I had been visiting the region for 15 years, I'd never been scuba diving in this spot. I was finally motivated to take the plunge because of the threat of impending damage. Today Cabo Pulmo remains hard to reach and full of sea life, but in a few years, the reverse could be true.
Underwater, a current carried us past the sea lion colony, and as we began to ascend, sunbeams lighted up schools of tropical fish: sergeant majors in their jailhouse stripes, Moorish idols trailing scimitar fins, giant hawkfish covered with squiggly Keith Haring lines. Back on the surface, a green turtle, one of an endangered species, circled our small motorboat.
After diving I retreated to the village of Cabo Pulmo, another unusual ecosystem. Perched on the edge of the reef, this dot on the Tropic of Cancer lies just 60 miles from the megaresorts of Los Cabos, but feels like a world apart. It is accessible only via a dirt road that runs along the southeastern shore of the peninsula, where you're as likely to encounter cows and rattlesnakes as other cars. When I asked for a key to my bungalow at the Cabo Pulmo Beach Resort, I was told they didn't use them.
The town has perhaps 250 residents, including locals from one-time fishing and ranching families as well as refugees from Canada, the United States and mainland Mexico who spend some of the year here. Even as nearby parts of the peninsula have changed exponentially over the last decade, bringing big-box stores and an expanding network of paved roads, power lines and cellphone towers, Cabo Pulmo has remained sleepily off the grid. Solar power and generators provide electricity. Water comes from a well or is trucked in. I counted one grocery store, five restaurants and three dive shops that were regularly open.
Also known as the Gulf of California, the Sea of Cortez is a 62,000-square-mile finger of water with a distinguished list of admirers. The ocean explorer Jacques Cousteau called it ''the world's aquarium.'' In 2005, Unesco declared 244 islands and coastal areas in the Sea of Cortez, including Cabo Pulmo, a World Heritage Site. In 1940 John Steinbeck traveled the length of the sea with the marine biologist Edward F. Ricketts and penned ''The Log From the Sea of Cortez,'' a blend of science, philosophy and travelogue. Of Cabo Pulmo Steinbeck wrote:
''Clinging to the coral, growing on it, burrowing into it, was a teeming fauna. Every piece of the soft material broken off skittered and pulsed with life -- little crabs and worms and snails. One small piece of coral might conceal thirty or forty species, and the colors on the reef were electric. The sharp-spined urchins gave us trouble immediately, for several of us, on putting our feet down injudiciously, drove the spines into our toes.''
In the '70s and '80s, though, overfishing decimated the region's sea life. Local people lobbied to protect the area, and in 1995 the Mexican government made Cabo Pulmo a national park, banning fishing. This turned out to be a huge environmental success: between 1999 and 2009, the fish population grew by 463 percent, according to a study from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography -- the biggest such increase ever measured in any marine reserve in the world. It was also an economic success, as one-time fishermen became dive, snorkel and kayak guides.
Consternation about the reef surfaced again in the late 2000s, when a Spanish developer announced plans to build a complex with 30,000 hotel rooms less than seven miles north of the park. The company's vision for Cancún-style sprawl was the opposite of the low-key eco-tourism that has taken hold in Cabo Pulmo. Conservationists noted that construction runoff can kill coral reefs, as can too many clumsy divers. A coalition led by Mexican environmental organizations protested; President Felipe Calderón responded by canceling permits for the megaresort in June 2012.
And that was supposed to be that. Just two months later, though, another Spanish developer resurrected plans for a resort in the same spot, filing with Mexico's Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources to begin an environmental impact assessment. The project was called (with unintentional irony) ''Los Pericúes,'' after an indigenous group made extinct by Spanish colonization.
The plan includes two golf courses, a marina with 300 moorings, 3,450 hotel rooms and 6,650 residential units. Spread over 14.5 square miles, the project would take such precautions as erecting a desalination plant and building away from sand dunes to limit interfering with nesting sea turtles. The ministry issued a report saying that the project would only ''marginally'' affect the marine and terrestrial ecosystems, and that Los Pericúes ''does not represent a significant change from the trend in the absence of the project.''
The organizations Wildcoast and the Mexican Center for Environmental Law have said they will continue to put up a fight. Not all environmentalists think the project would be a disaster, though.
Patrick Moore, a founding member of Greenpeace, is a part-time resident of Cabo Pulmo, having bought property here in 1999. He said he believed that a big resort could, in theory, be done right.
''I think most people would accept a sustainable development,'' he said, adding, ''It would bring economic benefits.''
Some locals are not so sure.
''What they're doing could put a lot more pressure on the reef,'' said Cole Barrymore, an owner of Cabo Pulmo Beach Resort, one of the oldest hotels in town. ''If the large resort goes ahead and the national park doesn't enforce new rules on numbers of divers, it's not going to be diving like it used to be.''
It may be, though, that nature itself keeps industrial-scale tourism at bay. After arriving in Cabo Pulmo I had to wait three days to dive because of the high winds that affect the area four months of every year -- the same months that Mexico's northern neighbors take their winter vacations. In the summer, the air is still and underwater visibility can extend to a spectacular 100 feet, but temperatures on land climb into the 90s.
Two days after diving with the sea lions I went out to a different part of the park. From the motorboat, I watched mother-and-child humpback whales breach the surface and slide back into the deep. After I tumbled off the gunwale and began my descent, a school of cownose rays, a near-threatened species, soared by overhead. Blue and black angelfish, yellow butterflyfish and speckled puffer fish patrolled their respective patches of coral, while a moray eel glared from beneath a rock. For now, at least, the reef was teeming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, scenes from the underwater world of the Cabo Pulmo National Marine Park in Mexico. Center, the author on the hills above the village of Cabo Pulmo on the Baja California peninsula. Above, Cabo Pulmo as seen from the Sea of Cortez. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LUIS ACOSTA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
 FRANCO BANFI/ZUMAPRESS.COM, VIA NEWSCOM) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); WATER SPORTS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); SCUBA DIVING (89%); RESORTS (87%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); BEACHES (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); REFUGEES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (94%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



887 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Revolutions Per Minute

BYLINE: By CRISTINA GARCÍA. 
Cristina García's new novel, ''King of Cuba,'' will be published next month. She teaches creative writing at Texas State University-San Marcos.

 BODY:
THE FLAMETHROWERSBy Rachel Kushner
383 pp. Scribner. $26.99.
In ''The Flamethrowers,'' her frequently dazzling second novel, Rachel Kushner thrusts us into the white-hot center of the 1970s conceptual art world, motorcycle racing, upper-class Italy and the rampant kidnappings and terrorism that plagued it. It's an irresistible, high-octane mix -- and a departure from the steamier pleasures of her critically acclaimed first novel, ''Telex From Cuba.'' The language is equally gorgeous, however, and Kushner's insights into place, society and the complicated rules of belonging, and unbelonging, can be mordantly brilliant. None of the characters in ''The Flamethrowers'' are quite what they seem, fabricating pasts as nonchalantly as they throw together their art. Above all, they hunger to be seen, to distinguish themselves from the ordinary. One artist, responding to the question of why he invents, defends his florid lies as ''a form of discretion.'' 
Speed is another operative element in the novel; speed -- ''an acute case of the present tense'' -- and its necessary correlative, time. It's the speed of the fastest motorcycles on the planet, the dizzying trajectories of artists in a capricious world, the precipitous rise and decline of fortunes, reputations, social status, sanity and, perhaps most acutely, love. It's also about time slowed to the flip side of speed, to an utter, velvet stillness: ''an operatic present, a pure present.''
At the heart of ''The Flamethrowers'' is Reno, a young artist from Nevada who, after a childhood of downhill skiing and racing dirt bikes, moves to New York with the vague idea of making it in the art world. ''It was an irony but a fact that a person had to move to New York City first, to become an artist of the West.'' She is beautiful, of course, and lonely, and not a little lost, spending the better part of her first Sundays in the city watching the chauffeured limousines of Mafia bosses, ''lined up like bars of obsidian-black soap,'' clogging the street in front of her Little Italy tenement. Reno is a modern Henry James heroine -- a rough-riding Daisy Miller, say -- who wanders far from home and submits to what turns out to be a very unsentimental education at the hands of reputed sophisticates.
After she catches the eye of Sandro Valera, an older Italian artist and estranged scion of a motorcycle-and-tires empire (he fashions high-sheen metal boxes popular in New York art circles), Reno's life, predictably, heats up, at least on the surface. Their romance is interlarded with -- and often hijacked by -- the story of Sandro's father, referred to throughout simply as Valera, as if there could be none other. A former radical and World War I veteran of a motorcycle assault battalion with the Arditi, famous for deploying flamethrowers against their enemies, Valera has journeyed to the pinnacle of social and economic success on the backs of the peons he virtually enslaves in the remote rubber tree forests of northwestern Brazil.
Kushner confidently manages huge swaths of politics and history, intersecting them with the personal lives of her characters, often through cultural or commercial motifs. And she draws interesting, wildly smart parallels between the cultural-political chaos of New York and Italy in the '70s, with Little Italy serving as a distorted mirror of defunct Old World values. All the while, Kushner fearlessly tackles the bigger questions of what constitutes authenticity, voice, identity, class, pitting the aesthetics of wealth against the pragmatics of poverty. What, ultimately, can society afford, she seems to be asking in scene after scene. And where does art fit into the scheme of things? Are artists, as Sandro's father contends, ''those who are useless for anything else''? Or is their purpose closer to what Sandro believes: ''Making art was really about the problem of the soul, of losing it. It was a technique for inhabiting the world. For not dissolving into it.''
It is too bad, then, that so much of the novel depends on the lovers, Sandro and Reno. Their romance, sadly, is a rather dyspeptic affair, mysterious in the way all love is mysterious -- who knows what lies at the core of any connection? -- but unsatisfying as either a May-December romance, a convenient careerist coupling or, for that matter, true love. There is minimal heat or magnetism between them, and no clue as to what sustains the couple besides the mild frisson of their differences -- age, culture, class -- and their vague concerns over what constitutes meaningful art. The two, essentially, are ciphers, more composites of intriguing characteristics than living, breathing individuals. Contributing to the malaise is the fact that the aspiring, even reckless Reno we glimpse in the early pages of the book bears little resemblance to the Reno who forgoes much of her own agency to stand by her man and be carried along by events, however dramatic, instead of pursuing her own agenda. Reno admits early on that she is capable of waiting: ''To expect change to come from outside, to concentrate on the task of meeting it, waiting to meet it, rather than going out and finding it.'' So is it wrong to anticipate more from this Western heroine?
The vivid specificity and authority Kushner demonstrates over the rest of her material saves the day. Her secondary characters, and especially her crowd scenes -- whether it's the chaos of a blackout in Times Square or the melee of a protest spiraling out of control in Rome -- are meticulously rendered, giving us both the discrete and the aggregate experience with perfectly modulated precision. Kushner's descriptions and skewering of the denizens of New York's art world are particularly hilarious. In one scene, a dilettante named Gloria does a daylong performance piece in which she occupies a small, curtained booth within which waits her naked pelvis. ''A sign invited people to Place Hand in Window.'' Another artist does just that, lost to the musings of the gender differences in the phrase ''to finger,'' and brings the hapless Gloria to climax. ''I should get one of those T-shirts that says orgasm donor,'' the artist deadpans. Naturally, the married Gloria thinks she's fallen in love with him.
Kushner doesn't spare the Italian upper class either. Sandro's mother, in particular, is deliciously depicted in her Bellagio villa as a frustrated, acid-tongued dowager. ''She was in her 70s now, her complexion like wet flour, clammy and pale, with the exception of her nose, which had a curiously dark cast to it, a shadow of black under the thin tarp of skin, as if her nose had trapped the toxins from a lifetime of rich food and heavy wines.'' Even Signora Valera's egg-shaped French bulldog, Gorgonzola, whimpered ''the way little dogs did, with needs that could not be met simply, with food and company.''
But the delights of Kushner's writing cannot entirely compensate for the novel's ultimate loss of momentum. This is due, in part, to the ill-fated couple's unsurprising denouement, but it also results from the confusing sequencing in the last third of the book. While the narrative is meant, I believe, to achieve a kaleidoscopic 1970s effect, it succeeds more in draining the well-earned energy of preceding scenes with too much back story, superfluous events and overwrought explanations. Though Reno is pulled from the apex of Valera luxury to the epicenter of Italy's revolutionary movement, her own feelings, self-effaced into the crowd, blockade us from a more intimate experience. ''Enchantment,'' Reno says, ''means to want something and also to know somewhere inside yourself . . . that you aren't going to get it.'' That said, there is still plenty of enchantment to go around in this generous, ambitious and original novel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF RACHEL KUSHNER BY LUCY RAVEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MOTORCYCLES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TERRORISM (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEVADA, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



888 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: A Single Seven-Year Term for the President?

 BODY:
Would a constitutional change make our leaders more accountable and effective, or less?
To the Editor:
Our Constitution -- and the political system it created -- is one of the remarkable creations of man. It justly deserves our reverence, but not slavish orthodoxy. What was exquisitely suited to the society of the 1780s is less well matched to our contemporary world.
Our current political cycles are too short and too much dominated by the exhausting critiques of an omnivorous media, more desperate for gossip than wisdom. Political opposition has become a nonstop competitive enterprise rather than a principled dialogue. Would we not be better served by some structural changes to our very old system?
For example, the job of president of the United States is doubtless the most burdensome job on earth. The president is C.E.O. of the most complex organization on earth, the federal government, and must also become expert in managing foreign policy. An entire administrative team must be set up when administrations change. Personal relationships with other leaders around the world must be established. 
Surely the learning curve for such a huge job should allow for terms longer than four years, especially since much energy during those four years must be expended in the effort to secure a second four years.
I would propose, at least to energize some discussion of the topic, that we alter our Constitution. Consider electing our president for a single seven-year term. Similar proposals have been made before and have been given scant serious attention.
And then we must trust that we have made a wise choice. We would allow the man or woman in the office to mature in the job, and disentangle that person from preoccupations with a second term.
NICK BROWNING Lexington, Mass., April 22, 2013
Readers React
Dr. Browning is looking at too small a piece of a more widespread need for term limits. William Wordsworth could have been talking about the re-election process when he wrote, ''Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers.''
Congress will be less beholden to the influence of campaign donations if its members think more about doing the country's business rather than planning a lifelong career there. Representatives start raising money for the next election as soon as they take office. Senators fall prey to believing too much in themselves and their legacy.
For the president, the last two years of the first term are compromised by the need to raise money for re-election. Worse yet, the last two years of the second term are weakened by lame-duck status.
My suggestion: one six-year term for the president, two six-year terms for senators and six two-year terms for Congress. Will this happen in our country? A resounding no.
MAURICE BARANCIK Naples, Fla., April 24, 2013
Dr. Browning has it backward. Instead of limiting presidents to a single term, we should repeal the 22nd Amendment, which keeps them from serving more than two. Term limits are said to be an answer to perceived defects in our political system. They really represent a shirking of our responsibilities as citizens.
Restrictions on the number of terms an officeholder may serve limit the voters' choice and are, therefore, antidemocratic.
The cure for the problems of democracy is more democracy, not less. If the American people want to elect a president to a third or even a fourth term -- as we did with Franklin D. Roosevelt -- they should be entitled to do so.
A number of states have enacted term limits. They have resulted in the replacement of experienced governors and legislators by people with less knowledge of the governing process. There is no evidence that these changes have led to more responsive or efficient government, or that they have reduced undue influence or corruption.
JONATHAN J. MARGOLIS Brookline, Mass., April 24, 2013
Dr. Browning's suggestion is certainly worth taking seriously. However, adoption of such a proposal should be accompanied by a method of expressing ''no confidence'' in a president well short of the end of the seventh year.
A modern president, for better and worse, often possesses great powers over peace and war and life and death, not to mention the impact of major economic decisions. It is vitally important that we be able in effect to ''fire'' a president in whose judgment we have lost confidence.
The House and the Senate meeting together could declare a vote of ''no confidence'' by a two-thirds vote. Such a vote could trigger either a new national election or the selection of a replacement far more rapidly by the joint Congressional caucus of the president's own party. We could give the president at least two or three years before being subject to the ''no confidence'' trigger.
But what could be worse than awakening to the realization that some president in whom we collectively have lost confidence will spend several years more in office?
SANFORD LEVINSON Austin, Tex., April 24, 2013
The writer is a professor at the University of Texas Law School and the author of books about the Constitution.
While I understand Dr. Browning's frustration over the polarization of our political culture, altering the Constitution to allow the president to serve a single six- or seven-year term has been addressed before. In a 1986 Op-Ed essay published in these pages, the esteemed presidential historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. responded to the suggestion as ''a terrible idea.'' Professor Schlesinger rightly argued that the concept ''is profoundly anti-democratic in its implications.''
Perhaps that was the reason the initiative was defeated when it was debated at the Constitutional Convention in 1787. The framers believed that the more power a government has, the more responsible it should be to those it is governing. They also believed that giving presidents the option to run for re-election would make them more aware of the concerns of not only those who voted for them, but those who voted against them.
LAURENCE JURDEM Port Chester, N.Y., April 24, 2013
The writer is a doctoral student in American political history at Fordham University.
While the proposal for a seven-year presidential term may appear reasonable, the four-year presidential term allows the American people to hold our executive branch accountable at regular intervals. A guaranteed seven-year term allows too much potential for hubris, mismanagement and indifference to the needs of the American people at the service of powerful corporate and moneyed interests. Poor policy decisions are more difficult to correct after seven years than after four.
DOMINIC QUINTANA Astoria, Queens, April 24, 2013
Dr. Browning is absolutely correct that our 225-year-old Constitution needs a fresh look and a total review. We need a Select Presidential Commission to review everything in the Constitution, including whether we need an Electoral College; whether we should constitutionally eliminate the filibuster; whether we can eliminate gerrymandering; and whether having lifetime appointments to the federal courts is appropriate or whether we should institute a mandatory retirement age.
While I would be reluctant to put our nation's fate in the hands of one man for seven years, this too ought to be considered by the commission.
JACK B. HARTOG New York, April 24, 2013
Dr. Browning is right. Our political cycles are too short and we need structural changes. But his single, seven-year presidential term doesn't sync with two-year House and six-year Senate terms. Although he could achieve his aims with a single six-year term, even that is too long for a president to be a lame duck.
We could, however, add a year between national elections by changing House terms to three years, the president's first term to six years and, most important, his or her second term to just three years. This only adds one year to a president's maximum term of service and cuts its lame-duck status from half to a third.
RICK LaRUE Silver Spring, Md., April 24, 2013
The writer is working on a book, ''Every Third Year: The Election Reform That Is About Time.''
The Writer Responds
The energizing idea behind my letter was to reconsider the structural elements that define our political processes. Most of these thoughtful letters reflect a similar concern, although the writers have differing views.
Mr. Levinson expresses a common worry: that by having a longer presidential term, we may be left with a president in whom we have lost confidence. His solution -- to permit an expression of no confidence -- may allow us to consider a longer term more easily.
Mr. LaRue makes a fascinating proposal in which the first term is six years, and the second is three.
Mr. Hartog suggests something I fear, yet agree with: that a commission (presumably consisting of our best and brightest) consider many aspects of our Constitution in the context of our contemporary world.
Unless we are willing to consider structural fixes to the system we have inherited from our forefathers, we risk perpetuating the flaws of a system conceived for another time.
The visionary courage of our founders stretched the concepts of governance in their own time. Might we not follow their example today?
NICK BROWNING Lexington, Mass., April 25, 2013

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY OTHER MEANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); FUNDRAISING (86%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



889 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Who Says New York Is Not Affordable?

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL. 
Catherine Rampell is an economics reporter for The Times. Adam Davidson is off this week.

 BODY:
One of the first things you learn when living in New York is that what qualifies as wealthy somewhere else seems barely middle-class here. On the Upper West Side, where I live, it's hard not to feel as if Manhattan is impossibly expensive for young professionals. The average nondoorman, one-bedroom apartment in the neighborhood rents for about $2,500 a month. Oatmeal-raisin cookies at Levain Bakery cost $4 each. A pair of sensible, unstylish walking flats from Harry's Shoes can set you back $480. I suppose, by comparison, that the $198 chef's menu at Jean-Georges doesn't sound so ridiculous. 
New Yorkers assume that we live in the most expensive city in the country, and cost-of-living indexes tend to back up that assertion. But those measures are built around the typical American's shopping habits, which don't really apply to the typical New Yorker -- especially not college-educated New Yorkers with annual household incomes in the top income quintile, or around $100,000. According to a recent study by Jessie Handbury, an economist at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, people in different income classes do indeed have markedly different purchasing habits. That may not be surprising, but once you account for these different preferences, it turns out that living in New York is actually a relative bargain for the wealthy.
While compiling her research, Handbury looked at Nielsen shopping data for 40,000 American households, across more than 500 food categories, with details on everything from organic labeling to salt content. Remarkably, she found that for households earning above $100,000, grocery costs are 20 percent lower in cities with a high per-capita income (like New York) than in cities with a low per-capita income (like New Orleans). There's evidence that the same forces hold true for other products that cater to upper-income people, from high-end retail to beauty services. The average manicure, for example, is about $3 cheaper in New York City than in each of the rest of the top 10 biggest cities in the United States, according to Centzy, a company that collects data on the prices of services.
Part of the reason high-income residents get good deals, Handbury explains, results from a particular economic system. Highly educated, high-income New Yorkers are surrounded by equally well-educated and well-paid people with similar tastes. More vendors compete for their business, which effectively lowers prices and provides variety. There's also a high fixed cost to distributing a niche product to an area; if there's more demand for that product, then the fixed cost can be spread across more customers, which will justify bringing the product to the market in the first place. That's why companies go through the expensive hassle of distributing, say, St. Dalfour French fruit spreads in rich cities but not in poor ones and why New York can support institutions like the Metropolitan Opera.
Of course, not everything that wealthy New Yorkers spend money on is cheaper here. Housing, after all, is absurdly expensive, even for the rich. Complex zoning regulations and limited land make it all but impossible for supply to grow alongside demand. Still, it's somewhat unfair to compare housing costs here to those in a place like Buffalo, or even Atlanta, since perks like access to amenities and unusually lucrative jobs are baked into the cost of New York real estate. Yet those higher rents all but ensure that tenants will appreciate an amazing bakery or a fancy shoe store -- and that retailers will have to lower prices to compete for their business. Regardless, the rent burden isn't actually as onerous as people assume: the typical resident here pays roughly the same share of her income in rent as does her counterpart in Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and Houston, according to N.Y.U.'s Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy.
Professional-class workers who like to moan about the cost of living in New York -- and I'm including myself in this group -- don't realize how spoiled we are by both variety and competitive pricing. Truthfully, things seem more expensive here because there's just way more high-end stuff around to tempt us, and we don't do the mental accounting to adjust sticker prices for the higher quality. We see a sensible shoe with a $480 price tag or an oatmeal cookie for $4 and sometimes don't register that these are luxury versions of normal items available from Payless or Entenmann's. The problem, in part, is that people tend to anchor their own expectations for what they should buy based on what their neighbors are buying, not what some abstract, median American buys. It's a phenomenon known by some as affluenza, and it partly explains the overborrowing by the lower and middle classes during the bubble years, when their incomes were flat but their high-income neighbors' incomes were growing phenomenally.
There is, however, an ominous flip side to Handbury's findings. When you look at the cost of living for low-income people based on their tastes and preferences, New York's poor turn out to be even poorer than you think. According to her research, a household earning $15,000 a year faces approximately 20 percent higher grocery costs in cities with relatively high per-capita income. The same is very likely to be true for other essentials, like clothing. Real estate is most crushing for all but those lucky enough to get into subsidized housing. For the poor, it is impossible to unbundle apartments from all the perks that help drive up costs.
A concentration of rich consumers should lead to better salaries for low-skilled jobs like waiters or manicurists. But federal programs intended to help the poor, like food stamps or child-care subsidies, are generally not adjusted for the local cost of living. In New York, the poor are ''getting disqualified from a lot of these programs because they're being paid $10 an hour rather than $7.50 an hour,'' says David Albouy, an economist at the University of Michigan, ''which can sort of artificially put them above the poverty line or wherever the threshold is.''
Between these competing forces of higher-paying jobs and high living costs, the high costs seem to be winning out. As I talked to Handbury, I began to realize why, in part, New York seems so wealthy. It's not so much that the city has been colonized by hedge-fund millionaires (though it often feels that way) as it is losing its lower classes. The greater New York area now has the longest average commute in the country (35 minutes, compared to a national average of 25). Many of the less-educated are leaving the metro area altogether: from 1980 to 2010, the population of college-educated workers rose by 73 percent, while the population of workers without college degrees fell by 15 percent, according to Rebecca Diamond, an economics graduate student at Harvard.
What's happening in New York is just part of a national shift. Highly paid, college-educated people are increasingly clustering in the college-graduate-dense, high-amenity cities where they get good deals on the stuff they like, while low-skilled people are increasingly flowing out to cheaper places with a worse quality of life. The end result, Diamond's research shows, is that measures of the growing income gap between the high-skilled and the low-skilled, which already look pretty shocking, seriously understate the inequality between these two classes.
This two-tier economy can seem inevitable, but other middle-income cities -- particularly Sun Belt hubs like Houston and Charlotte -- are now offering a third option, says Edward L. Glaeser, an economist at Harvard. A large part of their appeal has to do with policies that make it easier to build homes and expand the affordable housing stock for those people fleeing cities like New York. Places like Detroit are cheap, Glaeser told me, because they have become drastically less attractive locations to live and work. But places like Houston are cheap -- and staying cheap, even as they grow -- because the local governments have realized their comparative advantage is in deregulation, not in fancy cookies.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. New Yorkers don't shop like other Americans.
2. Which is good news for some and bad news for others.
3. Hello, Houston!

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BAKERIES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); FOOD LABELING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



890 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, April 28th 2013

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the April 28, 2013 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending April 13, 2013. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList115LEAN IN, by Sheryl Sandberg with Nell Scovell. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The chief operating officer of Facebook urges women to pursue their careers without ambivalence. 2225PROOF OF HEAVEN, by Eben Alexander. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A neurosurgeon recounts his near death experience during a coma from bacterial meningitis. 3133BRAIN ON FIRE, by Susannah Cahalan. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A medical mystery in which doctors struggle to discover why a young reporter suddenly experiences seizures, hallucinations and eventually near catatonia. 41GIVE AND TAKE, by Adam Grant. (Penguin Group) A Wharton professor&#8217;s research discloses that success depends on how we interact with others, and he argues that &#34;givers&#34; do better than &#34;takers.&#34;&#160; 5542WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) A woman&#8217;s account of a life-changing 1,100-mile hike along the Pacific Crest Trail during the summer of 1995. 61128KILLING KENNEDY, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Henry Holt &#38; Company) The host of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 732GULP, by Mary Roach. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company) A science writer&#8217;s pilgrimage down the digestive tract; by the author of &#8220;Stiff,&#8221; &#38;#8201;&#8220;Spook,&#8221; &#38;#8201;&#8220;Bonk&#8221; and &#8220;Packing for Mars.&#8221; 8628AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals who had the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. Kyle was recently shot to death in Texas. 9122UNSINKABLE, by Debbie Reynolds and Dorian Hannaway. (HarperCollins Publishers) A second memoir by the actress, singer and dancer presents stories about her show-business friends, her man and money troubles, and her children.&#160; 1049AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL, by Ben C. Carson and Candy Carson. (Zondervan) A doctor explores what makes America great. 111521QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 121850BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 131THE WAY OF THE KNIFE, by Mark Mazzetti. (Penguin Group) The Times&#8217;s national security correspondent describes how the lines between the C.I.A. and the American military have been blurred. 1479KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Henry Holt &#38; Company) The host of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 152AFTER VISITING FRIENDS, by Michael Hainey. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A journalist&#8217;s investigation into the mysterious death of his father, himself a newspaperman who had worked in a vanished world of Chicago journalism. 16167SALT SUGAR FAT, by Michael Moss. (Random House Publishing) A New York Times reporter reveals how food companies rely on scientific research to encourage us to consume more of their products. 171CARRIE AND ME, by Carol Burnett. (Simon &#38; Schuster) The comedian recalls her oldest daughter, who died in 2002.&#160; 1872THE GREAT DEFORMATION, by David Stockman. (PublicAffairs) A revisionist account of economic history since the New Deal by President Reagan&#8217;s former budget director frames his account of the current crisis.&#160; 19114UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific. 2097HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
21. ESCAPE FROM CAMP 14, by Blaine Harden. (Penguin Group)
22. ANGELA&#39;S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
23. ROGER AILES, by Zev Chafets. (Penguin Group)
24. MY WAY, by Paul Anka. (St. Martin&#39;s Press)
25. THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
26. A MIND AWAKE, by C. S. Lewis and Clyde Kilby. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
27. MY BELOVED WORLD, by Sonia Sotomayor. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
28. DRINKING AND TWEETING, by Brandi Glanville with Leslie Bruce. (Gallery Books)
29. MOM &#38; ME &#38; MOM, by Maya Angelou. (Random House Publishing)
30. SUM IT UP, by Pat Summitt with Sally Jenkins. (Crown Publishing)
31. A HIGHER CALL, by Adam Makos with Larry Alexander. (Penguin Group)
32. MOST TALKATIVE, by Andy Cohen. (Holt)
33. CLEAN, by David Sheff. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
34. BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House Publishing)
35. THE GIRLS OF ATOMIC CITY, by Denise Kiernan. (Simon &#38; Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); RETAILERS (73%); MENINGITIS (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (64%); HISTORY (64%); HIKING (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (71%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



891 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: A Borough Seeks the Spotlight

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

 BODY:
The 19th-century buildings at the former lighthouse service depot on the North Shore of Staten Island are in such a state of decay that tree branches reach out of the dormer windows. But the city hopes this abandoned site, which dates to the French and Indian War, will soon re-emerge as a bustling urban center with shops, restaurants, a hotel and housing.
The lighthouse area, which was abandoned by the Coast Guard in the 1960s, is one target of an ambitious redevelopment plan for downtown Staten Island. Nearly $1 billion in private investment is expected to pour into the North Shore around the Staten Island Ferry terminal over the next decade, bringing the borough the world's tallest Ferris wheel, an outlet mall, and rentals and condominiums. In June, developers will break ground on a sprawling residential development on the site of a former naval base in the Stapleton neighborhood, a mile and a half south of the terminal. 
''We really believe that this is a transformational moment for the North Shore of Staten Island,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''Staten Island is entering into a golden age.''
This next phase of development is intended to persuade two groups to stay on Staten Island: the 1.5 million tourists who arrive by ferry each year only to turn around and immediately return to Manhattan, and young Staten Islanders, who have been leaving for decades. Between 1990 and 2009, Staten Island has lost 2,000 residents ages 20 to 34, resulting in a nearly 6 percent decline among that population group, according to a report by the Center for an Urban Future. Developers hope the new apartments will entice more homegrown Staten Islanders to stay, and maybe even draw residents from elsewhere.
Much of the private and public investment along the waterfront was committed even before parts of Staten Island were severely damaged by Hurricane Sandy. Last September the city unveiled plans for a 625-foot-tall Ferris wheel, an outlet mall, and a 200-room hotel to rise within steps of the ferry terminal. A month later, after the storm devastated the island's eastern shore, the city reaffirmed its commitment to the North Shore. ''Now more than ever we need to focus on energizing the economy of Staten Island,'' Mr. Pinsky said.
The city has been zeroed in on the North Shore for the last decade, investing more than $200 million in public funds on a restoration of the ferry terminal and the nearby waterfront among other projects. Still, despite the terminal and the waterfront ballpark for the minor-league Staten Island Yankees, the area remains a disjointed hodgepodge of government buildings, bodegas, liquor stores and dollar stores.
At the lighthouse depot, which will be reinvented as Lighthouse Point, the crumbling 19th-century buildings overlook a newly restored waterfront plaza steps from the ferry terminal. By the end of the year, the developer Triangle Equities hopes to begin construction on 53,000 square feet of retail there. As part of the $250 million plan, the developer will restore some of the historic buildings, adding a 164-room hotel and 96 housing units.
Subterranean storage vaults will eventually house restaurants and shops. The brick-lined vaults ''are very cool,'' said Elysa Goldman, the director of development for Triangle Equities. ''They have a lot of character. It just lends itself to a winery or a cheese shop or a coffee shop.''
The city, which still owns two of the buildings at the lighthouse site, has requested proposals from developers to use one for a nonprofit organization, possibly as a new home for the National Lighthouse Museum. (There are no immediate plans for the other.)
Drawing young people to Staten Island may take some work, as the area has a decidedly unhip reputation. But with housing prices high in markets like Hoboken, N.J., and Brooklyn, young commuters may take a second look at the North Shore, which is a 25-minute ferry ride from Lower Manhattan.
''I've been calling Staten Island the last development frontier for some time,'' said Donald A. Capoccia, a managing principal of BFC Partners, which is developing the outlet mall on the site of a parking lot near the ferry terminal.
In June, Ironstate Development of Hoboken will break ground on a mixed-use development on Homeport, a 35-acre decommissioned Naval base overlooking the New York Harbor. The first $140 million phase will include two buildings with 27,000 square feet of retail space and 571 rental units, a swimming pool, garden and gym. Rents will range from $1,200 a month, for a studio, to $2,600 a month for a two-bedroom. As part of the New Stapleton Waterfront Development project, the city is investing $33 million in an esplanade, a waterfront park and infrastructure. Ironstate hopes to draw young professionals from Staten Island and south Brooklyn.
''Staten Island is losing a lot of young people because there are no options to attract them,'' said David Barry, the president of Ironstate Development, which has developed properties in Hoboken and Jersey City. ''You can't have old housing stock and expect to attract your best and brightest.''
Developments newly available for purchase in downtown Staten Island have been selling well, said Jacqueline Urgo, the president of the Marketing Directors, which is marketing two properties in the area for the developer Meadow Partners.
The Pointe, a 57-unit luxury condo in St. George, is 90 percent sold, with most of the buyers coming from elsewhere on Staten Island. Prices ranged from $365,000, for a one-bedroom, to $495,000 for a two-bedroom. ''Sales really surpassed our expectations,'' Ms. Urgo said.
Meadow Partners will begin marketing another full-service luxury condo, the rebranded Accolade at 90 Bay Street Landing. The developer anticipates that prices will start at $275,000, for a studio, and exceed $1 million for a penthouse.
Despite the prospect of a $1 million condo, the North Shore still lacks amenities like high-end grocery stores or boutique shopping. And it continues to suffer from a punishing reputation. But residents, developers and city officials see an eventual end to both problems.
''People all over the country know Staten Island,'' said Frank Rizzo, the broker/owner of Cornerstone Realty Partners. ''It might be the butt of their jokes, but they're talking about it. Now it's our time to say: 'No, you don't know Staten Island. Here's what we are.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The decommissioned Homeport naval base will become home to a mixed-use development, top right, overlooking New York Harbor, with housing, shops and a hotel. The project, along with another on the site of decaying 19th-century lighthouse depot buildings, above, is part of a major plan to revamp Staten Island's North Shore. Among the recent additions is the pearl-colored luxury condominium Accolade at 90 Bay Street Landing, top left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CONCRETE
 ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FERRIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); NAVIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); BASEBALL (62%); HURRICANE SANDY (61%); HURRICANES (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



892 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
An article last Sunday about 38 Studios, the video game company of the former baseball star Curt Schilling, misstated the given name of the director of the Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation who voted against investing in the company in 2010. He is Karl Wadensten, not Kurt. The article also referred incorrectly to another director (not named in the article) who served during that period. The director, Alfred J. Verrecchia, was the chairman and a past chief executive of Hasbro, not the C.E.O. at the time. 
The article also misattributed the statement that the development corporation's various committees held 63 meetings from September 2010 to May 2012 without discussing 38 Studios' financial health. It was reported on GoLocalProv.com, not in The Providence Journal. And the article referred incorrectly to work on a highway running through the Providence ''knowledge district'' for new businesses. The highway was relocated but was not buried underground.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BASEBALL (88%); COMPUTER GAMES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

PERSON: ALFRED VERRECCHIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (57%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2013



893 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: In South Carolina Congressional Race, Drama Outpaces Discussion of Issues

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
CHARLESTON, S.C. -- Mark Sanford has taken to debating a life-size poster of Nancy Pelosi on the streets. His Democratic opponent, Elizabeth Colbert Busch, issued a tribute to Margaret Thatcher, the conservative former British prime minister who died last month.
Those are among the least theatrical aspects of a Congressional race that has been long on drama and short on examination of the issues that concern voters in this sunny coastal district.
One has to scratch hard to get through the divorces and lovers, the tearful odes to Mama, the exploitation of celebrity and the Sharks-versus-Jets nature of the political parties to find out what the candidates propose to do if they win a special election on May 7 to succeed Representative Tim Scott, a Republican who was appointed to the Senate.
''You really have to search for any campaigning on the issues,'' said Scott Buchanan, the executive director of the Citadel Symposium on Southern Politics. ''It's been really more about what comes up on Sanford. This election has become a referendum on Mark Sanford, pure and simple.'' 
Despite several attempts by civic groups and news organizations to schedule debates, the candidates have agreed to only one. They will take the stage together on Monday at the Citadel, where every one of the 500 seats has long been reserved.
The next day the candidates, including Eugene Platt of the Green Party, a former Army paratrooper, will appear together at a forum sponsored by a local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P.
In a race expected to have a low turnout, the black vote could mean a lot. About 22 percent of registered voters are black, and most of them vote Democratic in a country club Republican district that supported Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential election by 18 percentage points.
Still, even with the two candidates side by side, it might be hard to parse the differences. Each accuses the other of not being supportive enough of Boeing, which is based in the Charleston area and is the largest private sector employer in the state.
Both give a nod to the importance of education and conservative government spending. Each has laid claim to being the best fiscal manager, with Ms. Colbert Busch referring to her experience as a business executive in the maritime industry and as a mother who had to start with nothing after a messy divorce left her to raise three children alone.
With regularity, she invokes the word ''trust'' when referring to Mr. Sanford. It is an effort to remind anyone who might have forgotten that while governor in 2009, he gave aides a fake story about hiking the Appalachian Trail when he disappeared to spend time with an Argentine woman who later became his fiancée after his wife, Jenny, divorced him.
''He can't be trusted to seek common-sense solutions that we need to grow our economy,'' Ms. Colbert Busch said during a campaign appearance last week.
Mr. Sanford, a Republican who likes to say he was Tea Party before the Tea Party was cool, emphasizes his record. The Cato Institute, a libertarian group, rated him the most fiscally conservative governor during his tenure; for six years before holding that post, he held the seat he is running to fill now.
Once considered the likely victor in the race, Mr. Sanford has of late found himself scrambling. He is attacking Ms. Colbert Busch for her ties to the national Democratic Party, which has spent nearly $800,000 from various sources, including the House Majority PAC (thus the faux debates with Ms. Pelosi, a former House speaker).
But he is most vocal about Ms. Colbert Busch's relative silence on the issues. She has given few interviews lately and has refused several offers for debates. Her strategy, it appears, is to count on Mr. Sanford to implode.
In a recent interview, when pressed to describe the top three issues in the campaign, Mr. Sanford said her unwillingness to express her views more publicly made them hard to define.
''I don't know that I can fully answer that question,'' he said. ''The question of this campaign is, what does she believe in?''
Governmental concerns pale when from the start the race has played more like reality TV. For those just tuning in, a recap:
After a campaign that began as an apology tour and moved quickly into a redemption tour, Mr. Sanford gained traction with voters based on experience and a well-articulated plan to manage government spending.
Ms. Colbert Busch courted the vote of women, who make up 55 percent of the district. She leaned heavily on her personal story, gave tearful homages to her mother and raised money in a series of high-priced fund-raisers featuring Stephen Colbert, her younger brother and the star of ''The Colbert Report'' on Comedy Central.
On April 16, The Associated Press released sealed divorce documents. Mr. Sanford's ex-wife claimed that he had slipped into her house to watch the Super Bowl with their 14-year-old son in violation of court orders. She found him leaving the property, using his cellphone as a flashlight. The two are scheduled to appear in court on May 9, two days after the election, to resolve the issue.
The Republican Party immediately pulled its support. Even if the Republicans lose the seat, the thinking went, the party can come back next year during the regular election cycle and easily take it back with a more appealing candidate.
''It's hard to find a weaker candidate than Sanford,'' said Tom Davis, a former head of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
All in all, it made for a bad week for the Sanford campaign.
''We were in free-fall,'' Mr. Sanford said.
So he took out a full-page ad in The Charleston Post and Courier last Sunday to explain himself. He said that he wanted to make sure his son was not watching the game by himself, and that he could not get in touch with his wife to tell her what he was going to do.
He painted himself as the underdog, ''outgunned, outmanned and outspent'' by the Democrats. Referring to William Travis, the South Carolinian said to have drawn a line in the sand with his sword during the battle to defend the Alamo, Mr. Sanford asked voters to cross the line and fight with him.
Meanwhile, Ms. Colbert Busch leaned in with an appeal to Republicans, asking that they cross the line in her favor.
On Tuesday, she announced the formation of Republicans for Colbert Busch. In a particularly soapish turn, one of the organizers is Leslie Turner, a Charleston lawyer who had a contentious divorce from Teddy Turner. He is the son of the media mogul Ted Turner and is one of the candidates who ran against Mr. Sanford in the Republican primary, which was held in the first week of April.
Late last week, the House Majority PAC turned up the heat, sending a fund-raising e-mail to supporters that included Mr. Sanford's personal cellphone number, which he had included in his newspaper ad. He said he was flooded with calls from people around the country.
Now, local polls put Ms. Colbert Busch in the lead, and Tea Party conservatives have pushed for a write-in candidate.
But with just over a week until the election, there is still plenty of time for more drama to unfold.
''That's the great thing about South Carolina politics,'' said Robert Oldendick, a political science professor at the University of South Carolina. ''You don't have to make up anything about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Mark Sanford, center, a former governor once considered the likely victor in a House race, is now scrambling against Elizabeth Colbert Busch, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); US GREEN PARTY (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); HIKING (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (83%); NEW YORK JETS (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); TIM SCOTT (74%); NANCY PELOSI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2013



894 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: The Urban Fire Next Time

BYLINE: By PATRICK SHARKEY. 
Patrick Sharkey is an associate professor of sociology at New York University and the author of ''Stuck in Place: Urban Neighborhoods and the End of Progress toward Racial Equality.''

 BODY:
FOR the past several years all the ingredients have been in place for an urban crisis. Unemployment has hovered above 15 percent in many of our most distressed cities. High-poverty neighborhoods have spread beyond cities and into the suburbs. The housing collapse has left large sections of communities boarded up.
And yet our cities have been relatively quiet. Crime remains at its lowest point since the early 1970s, public housing complexes have not fallen into disrepair, and large numbers of homeless people have not emerged on the streets. 
I don't mean to minimize the hardships faced by American families. But the downturn never made its way out of their homes and onto the streets. It has been labeled the Great Recession, but it could also be called the Private Recession.
Compare the current conditions in urban America with those in the early 1980s, when the nation saw a less severe recession, yet neighborhoods were deteriorating and violent crime was much higher. Cities were trying to overcome a range of economic and demographic transformations: the loss of manufacturing jobs, the migration of whites and middle-class minorities out of central city neighborhoods and declining tax revenues.
Meanwhile, cities saw their federal aid decline rapidly as the Reagan administration slashed programs like the Community Development Block Grant and public housing.
The consequences were predictable. Housing agencies were unable to maintain their complexes. Public schools crumbled, police forces were overwhelmed. Public transit deteriorated. It took two decades for many cities to recover.
There are many factors that help explain the difference between now and then, but I believe the primary one is the unpopular, $840 billion fiscal stimulus program in 2009, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act.
Many of the largest and most important investments made by the ''stimulus'' went to institutions and organizations that were essential to functioning communities. Abandoned homes did not become hot spots for crime because almost $2 billion went to acquiring, renovating or demolishing them.
Class sizes did not swell and police officers did not disappear from city streets because stimulus money was used to stabilize state budgets, improve underperforming schools and rehire officers for community-oriented policing.
The question is, what comes next, now that the stimulus is over? A historical perspective on urban policy reveals a cycle in which periods of major investment are followed by periods of neglect, disinvestment and decline. This pattern is in the process of repeating.
The early days of the Obama administration saw the announcement of a White House Office of Urban Policy, the unveiling of several high-profile programs to invest in urban communities, and the passage of the stimulus. But the Office of Urban Policy never took off, programs like ''Promise Neighborhoods'' have been diluted by the political process, and the stimulus money has been spent. In the cycle of urban policy making, we are entering another period of neglect.
To end this cycle requires a shift in the federal approach to urban policy. Our nation's cities and suburbs do not need more initiatives that are unveiled with fanfare and then abandoned a few years later. Urban communities and the institutions within them need a sustained commitment from the federal government, a durable policy agenda with the capacity to generate change in America's most disadvantaged communities.
Such an agenda does not require a vast influx of new money, but it does mean a shift of priorities. For example, the growing segregation of the rich from the poor could be slowed by a federal effort to counter the practice of exclusionary zoning, which allows localities to exclude low-income residents by restricting the types of housing that can be built.
The risks associated with growing up in a high-poverty neighborhood could be mitigated if money being used to imprison our young people went instead to re-integrating former prisoners into society, bolstering connections between the police and community groups and maintaining clean streets and safe parks.
The shortage of affordable, high-quality housing could be addressed if federal money forfeited to the home mortgage interest deduction was instead used to expand the supply and improve the quality of affordable public and private housing.
The Recovery Act provided these types of investments to communities across the country. But almost four years later, joblessness has declined only slightly in many cities, and state tax revenues have only partially recovered.
With the impending cuts to housing, schools, and community organizations from the sequestration, vulnerable communities are in danger of falling apart. A sustained commitment to urban neighborhoods is necessary to end the erratic cycle of urban policy, and to avoid the next urban crisis.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKE MCQUADE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SUBURBS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (51%); DIVESTITURES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



895 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released include personal income and spending, pending home sales and the Dallas Fed's manufacturing activity (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, the Chicago Purchasing Managers' Index and consumer confidence for April (Tuesday); A.D.P. employment for April, the I.S.M. manufacturing index for April and United States vehicle sales for April (Wednesday); the trade deficit for March and weekly initial jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for April (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly reports include Loews, Newmont Mining, Express Scripts and Hertz Global (Monday); Avon Products, Starwood Hotels, Tenet Healthcare, Pfizer, Aetna, Sirius Radio, McGraw-Hill, Western Union, Deutsche Bank, UBS, SoftBank, Lloyds Banking, Anheuser Busch InBev, IAC/ InterActiveCorp , Office Depot, U.S. Steel and Marathon Petroleum (Tuesday); Clorox, CVS Caremark, Merck, Time Warner, Chesapeake Energy, MasterCard, Humana, Knight Capital, Allstate, Marriott, Archer-Daniels Midland, Avis Budget, CBS, MetLife, Facebook, Visa, Yelp, the Jones Group, Comcast, Intercontinental Exchange and Viacom (Wednesday); MGM Resorts, PG&E, Cardinal Health, Beazer Homes, Estée Lauder, the CME Group, Och-Ziff, HCA Holdings, Cigna, Fortress, Hillshire Brands, Kellogg, Kraft Foods, American International Group, Weight Watchers, LinkedIn and General Motors (Thursday); and Newell Rubbermaid, Moody's, Berkshire Hathaway, Leucadia National and Orbitz Worldwide (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the Milken Institute Golbal Conference is being held in Los Angeles, through Saturday; and a bankruptcy judge will consider a $101.9 million tax settlement between the Ambac Financial Group's bond insurance unit and the United States.
On Tuesday, the Bloomberg Washington Summit will be held, featuring Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee will release a policy statement following its two-day meeting, and the American insurance unit of I.N.G. plans to price shares in its initial public offering.
On Thursday, Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, will speak at a meeting of the Investment Company Institute.
On Friday, Berkshire Hathaway will begin its annual meeting, held over three days in Omaha, Neb.; and shareholders of Occidental Petroleum will vote on retaining its chairman, Ray Irani, at the company's annual meeting in Los Angeles.
OVERSEAS On Thursday, the Asian Development Bank annual meeting begins outside New Delhi; Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, will speak along with others at the St. Gallen Symposium in Switzerland; and the European Central Bank will announce its decision on interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); FUTURES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); SATELLITE RADIO (54%); DIETING (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (70%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (69%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (69%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (69%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (66%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (61%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); MARATHON OIL CORP (56%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (56%); WESTERN UNION CO (56%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (56%); PFIZER INC (56%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (55%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (55%); HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (55%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); ALLSTATE CORP (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); CME GROUP INC (55%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (54%); LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (51%)

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (70%); BUD (NYSE) (69%); ABI (BRU) (69%); IACI (NASDAQ) (69%); CVS (NYSE) (69%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); OWW (NYSE) (66%); ATB (ASX) (61%); GS (NYSE) (57%); NEM (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); MRO (NYSE) (56%); MPC (NYSE) (56%); WU (NYSE) (56%); AVP (NYSE) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); ADM (NYSE) (55%); EL (NYSE) (55%); HSH (NYSE) (55%); HSH (LSE) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); ALL (NYSE) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); CME (NASDAQ) (55%); ICE (NYSE) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); NWL (NYSE) (54%); LUK (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (54%); OXY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (70%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (70%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (70%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (70%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (69%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (69%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (66%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (61%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (55%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (55%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (55%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (54%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (54%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (51%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (55%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (53%); RAY R IRANI (52%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ST GALLEN, SWITZERLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



896 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: New Suburban Dream Born Of Asia and Southern California

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
SAN MARINO, Calif. -- Beneath the palm trees that line Huntington Drive, named for the railroad magnate who founded this Southern California city, hang signs to honor families who have helped sponsor the centennial celebration here this year. There are names like Dryden, Crowley and Telleen, families that have lived here for generations. But there are newer names as well: Sun, Koo and Shi.
A generation ago, whites made up roughly two-thirds of the population in this rarefied Los Angeles suburb, where most of the homes are worth well over $1 million. But Asians now make up over half of the population in San Marino, which has long attracted some of the region's wealthiest families and was once home to the John Birch Society's Western headquarters.
The transformation illustrates a drastic shift in California immigration trends over the last decade, one that can easily be seen all over the area: more than twice as many immigrants to the nation's most populous state now come from Asia than from Latin America. 
And the change here is just one example of the ways immigration is remaking America, with the political, economic and cultural ramifications playing out in a variety of ways. The number of Latinos has more than doubled in many Southern states, including Alabama, Georgia and North Carolina, creating new tensions. Asian populations are booming in New Jersey, and Latino immigrants are reviving small towns in the Midwest.
Much of the current immigration debate in Congress has focused on Hispanics, and California has for decades been viewed as the focal point of that migration. But in cities in the San Gabriel Valley -- as well as in Orange County and in Silicon Valley in Northern California -- Asian immigrants have become a dominant cultural force in places that were once largely white or Hispanic.
''We are really looking at a different era here,'' said Hans Johnson, a demographer at the Public Policy Institute of California who has studied census data. ''There are astounding changes in working-class towns and old, established, wealthy cities. It is not confined to one place.''
Asians have become a majority in more than half a dozen cities in the San Gabriel Valley in the last decade, creating a region of Asian-dominated suburbs that stretches for nearly 30 miles east of Los Angeles. In the shopping centers, Chinese-language characters are on nearly every storefront, visible from the freeways that cut through the area.
Monterey Park, a middle-class city that began attracting Asian immigrants more than a generation ago, is still widely seen as the area's center and retail hub. But as Asians have continued to arrive in Southern California, they have moved into some of the most exclusive cities in Los Angeles County, making up more than 60 percent of the population in San Gabriel and Walnut, along the county's eastern edge.
Many of the immigrants come here from China and Taiwan, where they were part of a highly educated and affluent population. They have eagerly bought property in places like San Marino, where the median income is nearly double that of Beverly Hills and is home to one of the highest-performing school districts in the state. The local library now offers story time in Mandarin.
But the wealth is not uniform, and there are pockets of poverty in several of the area's working-class suburbs, particularly in Vietnamese and Filipino communities.
''This is kind of ground zero for a new immigrant America,'' said Daniel Ichinose, a demographer at the Asian Pacific American Legal Center. ''You have people speaking Mandarin and Vietnamese and Spanish all living together and facing many common challenges.''
The children of the immigrants who began transforming the area a generation ago are beginning to come of age, becoming cheerleaders for the region, running for political office and creating businesses that cater to a distinctly American-born audience.
There are countless stores that display signs in Mandarin, sell restaurant supplies and Chinese herbs, or advertise acupuncture or brokerage services. But perhaps the most common storefront is the boba tea shop, where young patrons spend hours drinking cold milk tea with jellylike tapioca balls. Nearly every one of the region's hundreds of strip malls boasts a cafe -- or even two -- offering a dizzying number of variations on the sweet drink.
Andrew and David Fung, who grew up in Seattle, were surprised to see the pervasiveness of Chinese and Taiwanese culture in the San Gabriel Valley.
After moving to the area a couple of years ago to try to break into the entertainment industry, the Fung brothers created several hip-hop videos celebrating what they termed the ''boba life,'' to embrace the area where, as their lyrics explain, ''kids drink more milk tea than liquor.'' The videos became so wildly popular on the Internet that local leaders began showing them in official meetings.
''People here think it's normal, hanging out to drink boba all day long, but this culture doesn't exist everywhere, and we're trying to tell them to embrace it, to own it,'' said David Fung, 26. ''We've got to teach ourselves to be proud of who we are and tell others about it.''
The Fung brothers have helped create a local ethnic pride that would have been unimaginable a generation ago, said Oliver Wang, a professor of sociology at California State University, Long Beach, who grew up in San Marino in the 1980s and returned to the area three years ago. The area could become central to Asian-American identity in the region in the way East Los Angeles is to Latinos or South Los Angeles is to African-Americans, he said.
''It wasn't cool to be Chinese or cool to be Asian,'' he said. ''The idea that the San Gabriel Valley could be the locus of some kind of cultural movement or identity is fascinating. They are asserting cultural capital to create Asian-American identity that wasn't there before, and one that is homegrown, not imported from Taiwan or Hong Kong.''
But the growth has not come without some backlash. While there is rarely overt tension in the area these days, there is a history of clashes over English-only ordinances, and some people still speak in hushed tones about Chinese immigrants taking over the region.
More recently, there have been renewed complaints of ''maternity tourism,'' a cottage industry that brings Chinese women here to give birth so their children can have American citizenship. Residents, including immigrants, have complained to officials about large houses that host dozens of pregnant women at a time.
Jay Chen, 35, a member of the Hacienda Heights school board in the San Gabriel Valley, recalled a 2010 controversy over a plan to create a Chinese-language class at a local middle school. Last year, when Mr. Chen challenged a longtime Republican congressman, Ed Royce, to represent a newly drawn district, he received a handful of messages using anti-Asian slurs.
''There's still this conservative element that said teaching Chinese meant you were teaching communism,'' said Mr. Chen, who lost the race. ''Meanwhile, people are fighting to get into our district so their children -- of whatever ethnicity -- can take these classes.''
Food often draws outsiders to the region, which is packed with mom-and-pop restaurants where a feast can cost less than $20.
Last summer, Jonny Hwang, 32, a son of Taiwanese immigrants, created the 626 Night Market. (Its name is play on the region's area code.) At the first event, with dozens of local food vendors, more than 15,000 people clogged the streets to get in. ''It surprised everyone,'' Mr. Hwang said. ''All of the sudden we had a community and something that even other people wanted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A bridal shop window in the San Gabriel Valley. Below from left, David Fung, Matthew Hui and Andrew Fung at Mr. Hui's Asian fusion shaved ice shop. ''This culture doesn't exist everywhere,'' David Fung said. (A9)
 Left, the Factory Tea Bar, one of the hundreds of boba tea shops in the San Gabriel Valley. Right, a San Gabriel shopping center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAPS: Pockets of Asian Growth: The population growth of Asians has outpaced that of Hispanics in the last 10 years, especially near California's urban centers. In Southern California, some of the largest increases in the Asian population were in wealthy white suburbs in the San Gabriel Valley. (Source: socialexplorer.com) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CENSUS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); RETAILERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



897 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: After 100 Days, Little Progress in Washington

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The 100-day mark is a measure for first-term presidents, not re-elected ones.
Yet as April ends, it's a propitious moment for an early evaluation of how President Barack Obama and congressional Republicans are meeting the aspirations set out in January.
The answer: Both are falling short. 
The White House thought a comfortably re-elected president would have more clout, and face less-resistant Republicans, to strike a compromise on the deficit, avoid the mindless across-the-board ''sequestration'' cuts, pass a gun-control measure and immigration overhaul, and get Congress to embark on a broad new agenda, including universal preschool education, a higher minimum wage, an ambitious infrastructure program and something on climate change.
With the exception of immigration, this agenda is going nowhere.
Democrats as well as Republicans on Capitol Hill say this is partly because of the Obama style, which is unchanged from the first administration: a reticence to negotiate and an inability to close on what supporters think are good deals. Complaints about White House insularity are as pronounced as ever.
Critics say the Obamaites deluded themselves in suggesting that they had a mandate from the November election.
''Their campaign strategy was to say Mitt Romney is a rich white guy that doesn't care about people like you, a vulture capitalist who ships jobs overseas,'' said Haley Barbour, the former Republican governor of Mississippi. ''Where do you get a mandate from that?''
Some issues, like ending tax cuts for the wealthy, were joined last autumn. But if Republicans do not feel threatened by Mr. Obama on those questions, any mandate is meaningless.
It would then seem reasonable to assume that the Republicans are the beneficiaries of these shortcomings. Wrong.
After losing a presidential election it expected to win, the party had public post-mortems and came to some obvious conclusions: Republicans have a problem with young voters, Hispanics and women, the groups that hold the future of the body politic.
A special panel created by Reince Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, cited those concerns, as well as deficiencies in technology and communications, and a perception that the party is not inclusive and is ''for the rich.'' To escape an image as the party of privilege, the report suggested that Republicans attack business malfeasance, corporate welfare and lavish executive retirement packages.
They have made a little progress on the social-cultural matters. The anti-gay-marriage rhetoric has tamped down, and a few Republicans, like Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, have switched their position. Other Senate Republicans, notably John McCain of Arizona and Marco Rubio of Florida, are central players in trying to forge a comprehensive immigration overhaul package. ''They've curbed the racism around immigration and started to stop speaking chiefly to the far right,'' said Stephanie Cutter, deputy campaign manager for Mr. Obama in 2012.
Still, look for more attacks on gay marriage in Republican primaries next year; that message still appeals to the party's political base. And even if an immigration bill is successful in the Senate, it's likely that a majority of Republicans will vote against it; House Republicans are already trying to water down any comprehensive measure.
On economic and business issues, there has been no discernible change.
''They're doing the same things, like reintroducing the Paul Ryan budget,'' said Ms. Cutter, who argues that voters ultimately will blame Republicans for refusing to accept a palatable alternative to the across-the-board budget cutbacks under sequestration.
A telling illustration is the reaction to the proposal for the Securities and Exchange Commission to require publicly traded companies to disclose their political donations, much of which can be now hidden from shareholders and voters. House Republicans, at the behest of corporate interests, are pushing legislation that would prohibit the S.E.C. from requiring this transparency.
Even for those rare issues on which there is some bipartisan agreement, like corporate tax overhaul, the odds of any action are slim.
Already, six months after the November referendum and more than a year and a half before the next national elections, leading strategists from both parties privately say that those next contests may be the opportunity to break this impasse.
Yet the more Democrats look at the House, the less optimistic they are. Part of the gloom is caused by the way districts were drawn after Republicans won control in many states in the 2010 election. A larger reason is population patterns; Democrats cluster heavily in fewer districts.
Republican hopes to take back the Senate -- Democrats hold a 55-to-45 majority, including the two independents who caucus with them -- seemed promising with seven seats held by Democrats in play and a plethora of big-name retirements. Yet those open seats in states like Iowa, Michigan and Montana look like an uphill climb for Republicans. The best odds now: Republicans will gain several seats, but fall short of the half-dozen they need for control.
If little changes over the next 18 months, there is one sure outcome: Mr. Obama and Republicans will posture for the last two years of this administration, looking for a new message to give voters in 2016.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); MISCONDUCT (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); RACE & RACISM (61%); GUN CONTROL (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MARCO RUBIO (57%); ROB PORTMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



898 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: NET WORTH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Spreading the Risk With Real Estate

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

 BODY:
SINGAPORE -- Commercial real estate has long had a place in the portfolios of wealthy investors, who see it as a useful diversification away from more volatile assets like stocks or bonds.
But lately the trend has accelerated, in particular among Asian investors, who are taking advantage of the strength of their currencies and the environment of low interest rates to increase their investment in these physical assets.
They are not the only ones. According to the Sovereign Investment Lab at Bocconi University in Milan, sovereign wealth funds made 38 commercial property investment deals across the world last year for a total value of almost $10 billion, as they continued to seek alternatives to volatile equity markets and low-yielding bonds.
Hedge funds have also been reported as increasing their stakes in commercial, mortgage-backed securities. 
A lot of wealthy individuals ''are already well invested with residential properties in different countries, and they have shown some interest in diversifying further in commercial properties,'' said Joseph Poon, head of ultra high net worth, South Asia, at UBS Wealth Management in Singapore. He said that he was seeing interest from Asian clients in commercial properties in London and Australia, as well as in distressed commercial properties in Europe and the United States.
Su Shan Tan, the group head of wealth management at DBS, agreed. ''Traditionally, ultrahigh-net-worth individuals'' -- defined as those with $50 million in investable assets -- ''have always invested in commercial properties to some extent, be it office, retail or hospitality, often depending on which business sector they have an operating business'' in, she said. ''But the recent trend has been primarily driven by loose monetary policies globally, as you have very cheap money available everywhere, and by central bankers, all trying to talk down their own currencies.''
Ms. Tan noted that there had been particular interest from Asian buyers in the British commercial property market, based on the significant depreciation of the pound against many Asian currencies in recent years: The pound has fallen about 6 percent against the Singapore dollar in the past two years and 20 percent against the renminbi.
Other factors, she said, are that British common law is familiar, especially to clients in Singapore and Hong Kong, both former colonies, and many Asian clients already own residential properties in Britain and thus understand the property market there.
She said there had also been some investment flows into the property market in the United States, but mainly through mortgage-backed securities, rather than through the purchase of the physical assets, though the bank has had clients who have invested directly in New York, San Francisco and Boston.
Other wealth managers confirmed that they too were seeing an upward trend in investment in commercial property.
According to Megan Walters, the head of research for Asian Pacific markets at Jones Lang LaSalle, global direct commercial investment rose 24 percent year-on-year in 2012 to total about $440 billion, and the company is forecasting that it could reach $450 billion to $500 billion this year.
''The relatively robust end to the year demonstrates that real estate markets are well through the recovery phase of the cycle,'' Ms. Walters said. ''We anticipate that 2013 will record a similar performance.''
Wealthy individuals ''like buying in cities they know well, which means either home locations, or cities with family links, often where family members have been to school or university,'' she said. ''They particularly like London, as a global city with ease of entry for foreign capital.''
London topped the list of commercial real estate by transaction volumes last year, with $56.1 billion, Ms. Walters said, citing figures compiled by her company. ''About 63 percent of the buyers were from overseas,'' she said.
She said major markets would continue to do well as investors remained attracted to real estate for its yields, currently higher than can be achieved in many other asset classes.
''We see some upside potential in the secondary markets, which have remained subdued since the global financial crisis but are starting to witness greater investor interest, given their more attractive yields,'' she said. ''Countries to watch are Indonesia, Vietnam and India in Asia, and Mexico and Canada in the Americas.''
She said she did not expect much change in Europe because ''the challenging debt market conditions continue to constrain the market.''
Wilson Aw, the head of private banking at United Overseas Bank in Singapore, noted that by casting their nets wide for commercial properties around the world, wealthy investors were ''able to negate the downsides of differing property cycles in various markets and enjoy the benefits of diversification in their property portfolios.''
He added, however, that investors considering commercial properties were not always aware of all the associated risks.
''The cost of financing has dropped tremendously in the last three to four years, so clients see it as an opportunity to take advantage of the yield gap between the cost of funding and what they receive as a rental or income flow,'' Mr. Poon of UBS said. ''However, we're in a very unusual low-interest environment. Investors are projecting the current low environment to infinity, while expecting a 7 to 8 percent asset yield on their property. That pairing is not going to hold, and people need to know that.''
''We're advising clients to be extremely careful and use our powerful analytical tools to see what the real world could become in a three- to five-year time frame,'' he added.
Currency risk, too, can be a significant factor, especially if a foreign buyer intends to sell the property quickly to capture a gain in a local currency. Mr. Poon took the case of a dollar-based investor who was planning such a ''flip'' in Japan; with the U.S. currency having appreciated 15 percent against the yen in the past two to three months, ''that could mean a big loss on your investment without the assets having done anything yet in terms of price appreciation.''
Mr. Aw of United Overseas also warned that clients should remember the economic risk associated with commercial properties, which is different from that with residential properties.
''Even in a severe economic environment, shelter remains an essential need and people will still need a roof over their heads,'' he said. ''Investors renting out residential units will need to adjust rentals downwards until they find the point of demand.''
But unless a commercial property is in a top location, he said, ''there may not be takers for shop units or offices for an extended period of time in an economic downturn.''
''This will severely impact an investor's ability to sell the property for a reasonable price,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (93%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); BONDS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TRENDS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%)

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



899 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Erasing History

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
One of my favorite coffee-table books is an odd volume called ''The Commissar Vanishes,'' a portfolio of doctored photographs from Stalin's Russia. When Stalin purged one of his fellow Bolsheviks, the comrade who fell from favor was duly cropped or airbrushed out of official photographs. ''The Commissar Vanishes'' juxtaposes the before and after. Here is the party stalwart grinning alongside Lenin in Red Square; and now -- poof! -- he's gone. Person, un-person. History, un-history.
For a contemporary take on the subject of un-history, I take you now to a lawsuit scheduled for argument next month in a Connecticut courtroom. The case tests the proposition that in America in the Internet age, there are benign, even humane reasons that sometimes history should be erased.
Connecticut has a law that allows people accused of crimes to expunge the official record if a case is dismissed. Most states have some version of expungement laws, or erasure laws as they are sometimes called. They are intended to let those whose cases have been dropped or overturned get on with their lives, unencumbered by the taint of arrest. Thus under the Connecticut law any person whose record is erased ''shall be deemed to have never been arrested'' and ''may swear so under oath.'' 
Lorraine Martin, a nurse in Greenwich, was arrested in 2010 with her two grown sons when police raided her home and found a small stash of marijuana, scales and plastic bags. The case against her was tossed out when she agreed to take some drug classes, and the official record was automatically purged. It was, the law seemed to assure her, as if it had never happened.
But Martin found that when she applied for jobs that should have been well within her reach, she got the cold shoulder. She Googled herself and discovered what any vigilant employer would have seen: stories still sitting in online news archives with headlines like ''Mother and sons charged with drug offenses.''
''It's essentially a scarlet letter,'' her lawyer, Mark Sherman, told me. ''She's become unemployable in spite of the fact that she has no criminal arrest record.''
So Martin filed a class action against local news outlets, claiming that they had defamed her and everyone in a similar situation. Defamation is the publication of information that is both damaging and false. The arrest story was obviously true when it was first published. But Connecticut's erasure law has already established that truth can be fungible. Martin, her suit says, was ''deemed never to have been arrested.'' And therefore the news story had metamorphosed into a falsehood.
There are passages in the court briefs that make you think the lawyers were possessed by the ghost of Lewis Carroll. They debate the difference between ''historical fact'' and ''legal fact.'' They dispute whether something that was true when it happened can become not just private but actually untrue, so untrue you can swear an oath that it never happened and, in the eyes of the law, you'll be telling the truth. Several pages and copious footnotes are devoted to considering what the meaning of ''publish'' is. Martin's lawyers insist that every time a search engine delivers the old story to a new reader, it amounts to republishing, and constitutes a new libel. The defending news companies say that is ridiculous.
The plaintiff's brief concedes that the suit is ''novel,'' and most lawyers I talked to predicted the case would probably be dismissed. It seems to collide head on with the First Amendment. The closest thing I could find to a similar case, in New Jersey's Supreme Court, was thrown out with a ruling that suggested the plaintiff's logic was ''Orwellian.''
But the dilemma underlying this case is real, and not so simple. The Connecticut case is just one manifestation of an anxious backlash against the invasive power of the Internet, a world of Big Data and ever more powerful search engines, in which it seems almost everything is permanently recorded and accessible to almost anyone -- potential employers, landlords, dates, predators. In Europe, where press freedoms are less sacred and the right to privacy is more ensconced, the idea has taken hold that individuals have a ''right to be forgotten,'' and those who want their online particulars expunged tend to have the government on their side. In Germany or Spain, Lorraine Martin might have a winning case.
I sense that the idea is gaining traction here. Erasure laws seem to be proliferating. States feel greater pressure to put public records offline. (After a New York newspaper published names and addresses of local handgun permit-holders, the Legislature in Albany sharply limited access to that information.) Google's latest transparency report shows a sharp rise in requests from governments and courts to take down potentially damaging material. Editors tell me they are increasingly beset by readers who once cooperated with a reporter on a sensitive subject -- nudism, anorexia, bullying -- and years later find that old story a recurring source of distress. (It's called ''source remorse.'')
Greg Brock, who handles reader complaints for The Times, says he now gets about four pleas a week from readers who want something purged. Most involve items from the police blotter, though he also gets requests to delete announcements of weddings that have since ended in ugly divorce. The most heartbreaking appeal he has heard involved the story of a toddler who apparently mistook her newborn twin siblings for dolls, pulled them from their cribs to play with them and inadvertently killed them. Nearly 30 years later, the toddler is now a teacher. When her students plugged her name into Google, the first thing that popped up was a headline tying her to the death of the twins.
As if that were not enough, there is a growing flock of buzzards to feed on your distress. Mugshots.com, for example, collects and posts arrest records from all over, complete with lurid mug shots, and then offers to redact your information -- for $399.
However understandable the yearning to escape painful memories, The Times's policy is not to censor history, because it's history. The paper will update an arrest story if presented with evidence of an acquittal or dismissal, completing the story but not deleting the story.
Some papers have compromised by agreeing in certain instances to insert a bit of code in online articles that prevents them from being fetched by the major search engines. The stories can still be found in the paper's digital archive, just as they can be found in bound volumes at the local library, but they do not show up on Google. The Hearst Corporation, a defendant in that Connecticut libel suit, is experimenting with such a program. The Times considered a similar policy a few years ago, and we decided it was a slippery slope. But perhaps it's time to reopen that discussion.
A number of privacy protection firms use another technique. They prepare packets of non-damaging information about their clients -- academic records, philanthropic work -- and ''optimize'' them so they pop up in search-engine rankings before the more embarrassing stuff.
Last month Owen Tripp, a co-founder of Reputation.com, which has made a business out of helping clients manage their digital profile, advocated a ''right to be forgotten'' in a YouTube video. Tripp said everyone is entitled to a bit of space to grow up, to experiment, to make mistakes.
''How do we give people a chance to go back and to edit, to trim around the edges, or at least drop the veil across those things that are most private?'' he asked.
''This is not just a privacy problem,'' said Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, a professor at the Oxford Internet Institute, and author of ''Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age.'' ''If we are continually reminded about people's mistakes, we are not able to judge them for who they are in the present. We need some way to put a speed-brake on the omnipresence of the past.''
What that brake might be, he says, is not entirely clear. He is wary of legislation, but would like to see search engine companies -- the parties that benefit the most financially from amassing our information -- offer the kind of reputation-protecting tools that are now available only to those who can afford paid services like those of Reputation.com. Google, he points out, already takes down five million items a week because of claims that they violate copyrights. Why shouldn't we expect Google to give users an option -- and a simple process -- to have news stories about them down-ranked or omitted from future search results? Good question. What's so sacred about a search algorithm, anyway? After all, nobody ever called Google the first draft of history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); LITIGATION (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); CANNABIS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



900 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Here's to the First 48, in Lessons of Word and Song

BYLINE: By VIVIEN SCHWEITZER

 BODY:
During one section of ''Gabriel's Guide to the 48 States,'' which received its New York premiere at Carnegie Hall on Saturday evening, the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra stood and sang a sacred harp hymn, a genre of a cappella choral music that evolved in the South. The excerpt came under the heading ''Alabama,'' one stop on a musical voyage from the young composer Gabriel Kahane that was commissioned by Orpheus to celebrate its 40th anniversary this year. 
The 40-minute song cycle was inspired by the American Guide Series, books commissioned in the 1930s by the Federal Writers' Project, which, under the auspices of the Works Progress Administration, assigned unemployed writers to compile guides to the 48 states.
Mr. Kahane created a libretto that weaves text from the guides alongside snippets from interviews conducted for the project and excerpts from ''Spending to Save,'' a 1938 book by Harry Hopkins (one of Franklin D. Roosevelt's confidants) to document the organization's activities.
The printed program included a map to highlight destinations on Mr. Kahane's road trip, which began in Southern California and ended in New York City. Introducing the work from the stage, he said he conceived of the piece as ''a song cycle, oratorio and middle-school social studies lecture.''
Mr. Kahane is one of a generation of musically omnivorous composers whose music freely plumbs pop, musical-theater and classical traditions. There were many appealing moments in this song cycle, which featured Mr. Kahane singing; playing banjo and electric guitar; and narrating the spoken excerpts.
His gifts as a melodist were apparent in the lovely tunes featured in the sections ''San Franciscans at Work'' and ''The Dim Narrow Trail.'' He imbued his reading of ''I Boycott the World,'' taken from an interview with an unemployed man in New York, with comic flair, setting the text to witty orchestration. The violins strummed like guitars during a reading about cowboys in Kansas. The vivid scoring in ''Chicago'' reflected bustling, animated street scenes.
Despite its admirable components and the energetic contributions from Orpheus, though, the piece didn't convince as a whole. The eclectic elements and disparate sections resulted in a journey that at some intersections seemed to meander aimlessly, with Mr. Kahane at times seeming an uneasy tour guide.
There was no such hesitation in the excellent performance of Schoenberg's ''Verklärte Nacht,'' which opened the program with brooding intensity from the strings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gabriel Kahane , at microphone, performing with the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra in his new ''Gabriel's Guide to the 48 States'' at Carnegie Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); THEATER (76%); WRITERS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



901 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Robbed at Gunpoint, Some Bronx Victims Resist

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
The first armed robbery attempt was in October, on a residential Bronx block near an elevated train stop. The victim fought back. He was shot in the leg.
The next came a month later and roughly a mile away. Once again, the victim resisted and was shot.
After the third robbery attempt, in February, two distinct patterns became apparent. The police suspected a single group was to blame, a group that cruised in cars and attacked lone men at night. But a more unusual pattern was seen among the three victims: when faced with a gun and a straightforward proposition -- your money or your life -- they had opted to take their chances with their lives.
''Being held at gunpoint, for some people, is not that scary,'' said Brian Melford, 21, a Bronx youth activist and student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''Around here, people think they're strong. They just say, 'I'm not going to give it up.' ''
Criminologists have for decades studied the responses of victims to violent crime. Robberies in particular became a topic of scholarly research in the 1980s and 1990s, as random street crime spread through urban areas, with those studies mostly confirming the obvious: if you resist a robber, you are more likely to get hurt or, possibly, killed. 
''From any perspective of rationality, the thing to do with a robber is to cooperate politely,'' said Franklin E. Zimring, a criminologist at Berkeley Law School. But, he added, both robbers and recalcitrant victims have never been the most rational actors.
''You don't have much money on you; it's nuts for the victim to refuse,'' he said. ''Here's the second layer of nuts: You've got a rational robber. If the victim refuses, why doesn't he just find somebody else?''
National victim surveys in more recent years suggest little change in the number of people standing up to their muggers, or even a slight decrease.
But with decade-long declines in crime, some scholars have noted a change in the nature of robberies. A 2009 study of national victim surveys taken since 1993 found that not only were robberies becoming less frequent over time, they were also becoming more violent, in part because of what the authors describe as ''victim hardening.''
''Softer victims take precautions,'' said Rajiv Sethi, a Barnard College economist and one of the study's authors. In addition, he said, many people who may have become robbers in the past may instead have gotten jobs as urban economies improved, leaving the more-hardened criminals to encounter more-hardened victims on the streets of certain neighborhoods.
''You get more resistance in high-crime areas than low-crime areas,'' he said. ''People who would not resist have left the areas. Those who stay can't afford to leave or to give up the little property that they have in their possession.''
The general perception of bad guys may have changed as well. Decades ago, many harbored an understandable fear that a gun-wielding assailant, fueled by drugs or desperation, would shoot at the smallest provocation. But a spreading sense of safety in many areas of the city, fostered by the falling murder rate, may lead some to doubt that a gunman these days will pull the trigger.
''It does sound plausible that when you have less of a climate of fear, you have more resistance,'' said Mr. Sethi, though he cautioned that research has not been conducted in this area.
In the Bronx, ballistics tests last month matched a 9-millimeter handgun from the first two botched robberies to the one in February, also on a deserted residential street in the middle of the night. In that case, too, the 31-year-old victim held on to his valuables -- and was shot in the leg.
Another attempted armed robbery, in December, involved a different weapon but the same behavior by the assailants. It was not certain that the same men were responsible for that shooting, said Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, but the reaction of the 28-year-old victim matched the others: ''Tough guys who said, No, I'm not giving up my stuff.''
None of the attempted robberies resulted in any property being taken, Mr. Browne said. ''They're batting a thousand in their lack of success,'' he said.
The first mugging, on Oct. 15, involved a 42-year-old man, singled out as he returned home shortly after 11 p.m. The police said at least four men in two cars -- a dark-colored Toyota Land Cruiser and a two-door Honda Civic with custom rims -- pulled up alongside the victim before a passenger in each car got out and confronted him.
With the gun visible, the men demanded money from the man. They fired a single shot when he refused, then climbed back into the cars empty-handed and drove away.
The next month the same group fired a bullet into the leg of an 18-year-old.
Around the neighborhood, many offered theories for why four of their neighbors, when confronted with a gun, had decided to put up a fight.
''You figure he worked hard for his money and it's rightfully his,'' said Margaret, 60, who declined to give her last name because the site of the first shooting, on Light Street and Harper Avenue, is only steps from her home. ''It's not fair.''
A crumpled police poster describing the crimes and offering a $12,000 reward hung low on a nearby pole.
Several doors down, Maureen Peddler, 49, described how her husband had been held at gunpoint in the fall at the gate of their single-family home, where she also operates a day care center. ''I heard the commotion, and came to the door and he ran away,'' she said, adding that her husband and the man had been locked in a violent struggle but that no shots were fired. ''He was grabbing the chain off my husband's neck.''
Mr. Browne said that the police have seen fewer crimes in the north Bronx than in some areas of the city. ''It's not the 7-5,'' he said, referring to the precinct in East New York, Brooklyn. But, he added, it is among the higher-crime areas of the Bronx. The 47th Precinct has recorded at least 118 felony assaults and 107 robberies this year. Over the weekend, the precinct had its first murder of the year, the shooting death of a 34-year-old man; the police said it did not appear to have occurred in the course of a robbery.
''We are not under siege by the vigilantes and the criminals that come out at night,'' said Andy King, a city councilman whose district includes the area. He offered his own theory as to why some in the community resisted armed robbers.
''The pride, the respect factor'' takes hold, he said. ''It's a violation, and some people are at a stage in our communities that they will stand up for certain beliefs.''
Leaning in the doorway of a home on Paulding Avenue, Gareth Wilson, a 30-year-old graphic designer, said he could understand why some of his neighbors might put up a fight.
''Sometimes people catch you in the wrong mood,'' he said. ''There's times when you're not going to do it. Even with a gun.''
Others expressed shock that anyone would think to tangle with an armed robber in defense of a little bit of pocket lucre.
''You only live once,'' said Omar Dailey, 35, while cutting the hair of a local tailor at a Bronxwood Avenue barbershop near the site of one of the shootings. ''I'm giving up everything. What you want?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: During a robbery attempt on Light Street and Harper Avenue in October, a 42-year-old man fought back. He was shot in the leg.
At the Skyline Barbershop on Bronxwood Avenue, some expressed shock that anyone would tangle with an armed robber. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A sketch of a member of the group suspected of robbery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (93%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



902 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Push to Require Online Sales Tax Divides the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Legislation that would force Internet retailers to collect sales taxes from their customers has put antitax and small-government activists like Grover Norquist's Americans for Tax Reform and the Heritage Foundation in an unusual position: they're losing.
For years, conservative Republican lawmakers have been influenced heavily by the antitax activists in Washington, who have dictated outcomes and become the arbiters of what is and is not a tax increase. But on the question of Internet taxation, their voices have begun to be drowned out by the pleas of struggling retailers back home who complain that their online competitors enjoy an unfair price advantage.
Representative Scott Rigell, Republican of Virginia, calls them ''the hardworking men and women who have mortgaged their homes to buy or to rent a little brick-and-mortar shop.''
And each time Mr. Norquist and others in the antitax lobby take a loss, they start to seem more vulnerable, Republican lawmakers acknowledge, with ramifications for the continuing fights on the deficit and the shape of the tax code. 
''I have a lot of constituents saying to me, 'Grover Norquist did not elect you,' '' said Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the author of the Internet tax bill in the House. ''Members that come to Washington and kowtow to special interests end up contributing to this very polarized government. These are tough decisions we have to make up here.''
The legislation cleared its final procedural hurdle Thursday evening on a bipartisan Senate vote, 63 to 30. Final Senate passage is scheduled for May 6, and that tally is likely to be even more strongly in favor. Earlier test votes won as many as 75 yeses. And House action, once seemingly unthinkable, may be unstoppable.
''I have some concern about the legislation,'' said Representative Bob Goodlatte of Virginia, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction on the issue, ''but we also recognize the fairness issue -- certain items being taxed in certain circumstances, other items being not -- is a problem for brick-and-mortar businesses, so we're going to try and solve that.''
The Marketplace Fairness Act would allow state governments to force Internet retailers to collect sales taxes from their customers and remit the proceeds to state and local governments, just as brick-and-mortar retailers have done for decades. The states would be required to provide free software that would be embedded in retail Web sites to do the calculations.
Mr. Norquist, whose organization maintains the antitax pledge that virtually every Republican in Washington has signed, calls it the ''Let People in Alabama Loot People in New York Act.'' To him, the bill is a money grab by cash-poor state and local governments that would get the power to tax consumers who do not have the power to vote them out of office.
''It reduces the pressure on governments to offer the best services at the lowest cost,'' he said in an interview. ''We think it's a very, very bad idea.''
His group has suggested that a yes would violate the taxpayers' pledge, although Mr. Norquist has been cautious about whether passage of the law would constitute a tax increase, since consumers are already supposed to pay sales taxes even if a merchant does not collect it.
The Heritage Foundation and its more overt political arm, Heritage Action, have made no such equivocations. It is making a yes vote a black mark for a lawmaker on Heritage's conservative scorecard, urging its members to call their representatives and senators, ''pretty much everything we can,'' said Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action.
Many Republicans have just shrugged. Supporters of the bill include Tea Party conservatives like Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, and Republican leaders like Senator John Thune of South Dakota. They argue that the bill, which could generate as much as $24 billion in new tax revenues, is not a tax increase at all. It only ensures that taxes already owed are actually paid. Most states collect 4 to 7 percent on retail purchases.
''It's obviously an issue that can be divisive for Republicans because a lot of the antitax groups are weighing in against it,'' Senator Thune said. ''But in states like mine where you've got a lot of smaller retailers trying to compete in smaller communities, people are going to do their business online, and that has grown dramatically over the last few years.''
The real pull has come from personal experiences back home, and the emergence of reliable Republican business voices who have provided a rare counterargument to the activists in Washington.
For Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, it is a bridal shop in St. Louis where customers try on dresses, check the labels for the product code, and then order the same product online, free of sales tax.
For Representative Austin Scott, an ardent conservative Republican from Georgia, it's Ken's Trading Company, where the profit margin on a Leupold rifle scope is lower than the sales tax too many Georgians are avoiding by shopping for the same scope on their computers.
''We respect their opinion. I'm glad they're there as conservatives,'' Mr. Scott said of the antitax groups. ''But the fact of matter is, in the end we have a job to do.''
For opponents of the bill, the impotence of the antitax arguments has been a revelation.
''I don't think any one group drives an issue. It's the issue itself,'' said Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, whose state is one of five with no sales taxes. ''What does surprise me, put aside the groups for a minute, is that there are people who describe themselves as conservatives who are going to support this act, when regardless of how you look at it, whether your state has a sales tax or not, it's going to put some fairly rigorous and onerous requirements on online businesses to collect taxes for other states. That's counter to conservative principles.''
The Internet sales tax is not the first battle such groups have lost, but it might be one of the clearest. In 2010, just before all of the Bush-era tax cuts were first set to expire, President Obama and Senate Republican negotiators reached agreement to extend all of the tax cuts for two years, except one.
The estate tax had actually expired. Rather than have it reborn at the relatively high top rate of Bill Clinton's era, negotiators allowed it to come back at a considerably lower rate. It was still a tax increase from zero, but not as big as it could have been. Mr. Norquist blessed it.
He took his argument even further this year when all those tax cuts expired again. This time, Mr. Obama insisted that tax rates rise considerably on upper-income families' wages, estates, capital gains and dividends. Almost all Republicans saw that as a tax increase, and a big one, but Mr. Norquist -- seeing that passage was inevitable -- again declared that the deal did not violate his group's no-new-taxes pledge since letting all the tax cuts expire would be worse.
This time, Mr. Norquist and other conservatives are not mincing words. Heritage Action predicted that the Internet bill would usher in ''tax audits from hell'' for online retailers who could be subject to scrutiny from taxing authorities all over the country at year's end.
The Heritage Foundation e-mailed to members its 10 reasons to oppose the bill, contending ''it will hobble the Internet economy,'' erode ''state sovereignty,'' force ''small businesses to become tax collectors for other states'' and unleash ''all the nation's tax collectors on small businesses.''
Mr. Blunt grimaced at such assertions and recalled an interview he did with a television reporter in St. Louis. After the cameras were turned off, the reporter told him of his wife's friend and her bridal store -- which for many customers has turned into a showroom to try out the wares before buying them online.
''They use the parking lot. They use the sidewalk. They benefit from police protection, and then the local merchant who pays for all of that doesn't get the sale,'' he said, suggesting that the groups' angry opposition in Washington could prove to be something of a watershed with Republicans.
Mr. Scott said he was in no way ready to renounce his support of the taxpayer pledge, but on this one, he has made his choice: ''I'm a co-signer of the pledge. I'm a co-signer of the legislation. We have to collect the taxes that are due.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); INTERNET SALES TAX (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (91%); SALES TAX (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); UNFAIR PRICING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (84%)

PERSON: BOB GOODLATTE (58%); STEVE WOMACK (56%); SCOTT RIGELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



903 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: President Picks Mayor Of Charlotte For Cabinet

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Monday plans to nominate Anthony R. Foxx, the mayor of Charlotte, N.C., to be the next secretary of transportation, choosing a rising young African-American from the South to balance out a cabinet criticized for a lack of diversity.
Mr. Obama also appeared close to nominating Penny Pritzker, a hotel magnate, longtime friend and fund-raiser, as the next commerce secretary, and Michael Froman, his international economics adviser, as the United States trade representative, although neither nomination was scheduled to be announced on Monday. 
The selections, all of which would require Senate confirmation, would help fill out Mr. Obama's second-term cabinet more than five months after his re-election. Consumed by fiscal clashes and legislative battles and delayed by painstaking vetting, Mr. Obama has been slow to finish assembling a team to carry him through the second half of his administration.
Word of Mr. Foxx's nomination, confirmed on Sunday by White House officials who insisted on anonymity to discuss it before the formal announcement, comes at a time when the president has been scrutinized for the demographic makeup of his circle. After drawing criticism that many of his initial second-term national security picks were men, Mr. Obama has named a succession of women and minorities to other top-level posts.
The issue provoked one of the laugh lines at the annual dinner of the White House Correspondents' Association on Saturday night. ''Mr. President, your hair is so white it could be a member of your cabinet,'' Conan O'Brien joked.
Mr. Foxx, who turns 42 on Tuesday, has served as mayor for nearly four years. But just three weeks ago, he announced that he would not seek re-election this year because he wanted to spend more time with his family, including two children born after he joined the Charlotte City Council in 2005. ''I do not want to be a father who looks back and wishes I had spent more time with them,'' he said in a statement on April 5.
Mr. Foxx, who was raised by a single mother and his grandparents, became the first black student body president at Davidson College and earned a law degree from New York University. He worked as a lawyer for a private firm as well as for the House Judiciary Committee and the Justice Department before returning to Charlotte to begin his career as an elected politician.
He has said that during his four years as mayor, he has turned around an economically afflicted city, adding 13,000 jobs, making Charlotte more hospitable to business and hosting the Democratic National Convention last year.
While Mr. Foxx does not have a transportation background, he did work as mayor to extend a light-rail line, open another runway at the airport, complete a major highway widening, improve a major bridge and bring streetcars back to Charlotte.
He would be the second black member of the cabinet, joining Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. He would succeed Ray LaHood, a former Republican congressman who led the Transportation Department for four years and said in January that he would step down as soon as his successor was confirmed.
The commerce job has been open for nearly a year since John E. Bryson stepped down in June, citing medical reasons after a sequence of car crashes. The deputy secretary, Rebecca M. Blank, has filled in since then. Ms. Pritzker, an heiress to the Hyatt hotel fortune, has been in the wings for months as the likely candidate, but vetting her family's wealth and intricate business ties evidently delayed the nomination.
Mr. Froman, a former managing director of Citigroup and a law school friend of Mr. Obama who serves as his deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, appears likely to be the new trade representative, a cabinet-level post. Ron Kirk, a former Dallas mayor who had the job in the first term, stepped down last month; he spent time with Mr. Obama during the president's trip to Dallas last week and played golf with him over the weekend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony R. Foxx 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (61%); LAWYERS (61%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (91%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



904 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE QUEEN OF VERSAILLES (2012) The director Lauren Greenfield traces the lives of David Siegel, the billionaire founder of the Westgate Resorts time-share business, and his wife, Jackie, a former model 31 years his junior, as they embark on the construction of what is to be the largest home in America. The couple, above, plan to build a 90,000-square-foot mansion with 10 kitchens, a 6,000-square-foot master suite, a bowling alley, two tennis courts and a roller rink, modeled after the palace of Versailles in France and with room for their 8 children, 19 household employees and array of pets. But their blueprints don't take into account the financial crisis. On the eve of the Sundance Film Festival in January 2012, Mr. Siegel sued Ms. Greenfield for defamation, alleging that ''The Queen of Versailles'' depicted Westgate Resorts ''in an array of defamatory, derogatory and damaging ways.'' Ms. Greenfield won the directing award at the festival, where this documentary was nominated for the grand jury prize. 
8 P.M. (TMC) SYLVIA (2003) Gwyneth Paltrow portrays the poet Sylvia Plath, who was 30 when she committed suicide in 1963, in this biopic directed by Christine Jeffs. Daniel Craig is her husband, Ted Hughes, who survived her and became the poet laureate of Britain in 1984. Some of Plath's admirers treated Hughes as her symbolic murderer; others preferred to see him as someone who suffered himself, a talented man married to an emotionally disturbed woman. ''Although partisans on both sides may disagree,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, the movie ''tries to address the Plath-Hughes marriage evenhandedly and resists the urge to turn its heroine's life into allegory. It is more like opera, which is braver, and also more fitting. Ms. Paltrow looks a lot like Plath'' and plays her ''with radiant conviction.'' But how, Mr. Scott asked, to dramatize the creative process and its psychic costs? ''It helps, in this case, that Ms. Jeffs has a lyrical sensibility that matches her subject,'' he said. ''Ms. Jeffs's understanding of Plath, like Ms. Paltrow's, is deep and sincere, and ultimately more intuitive than analytical. 'Sylvia,' rather than trying to explain Plath, wants to burrow into her personality without disturbing its mysteries.''
9 P.M. (Sundance) RECTIFY Daniel (Aden Young), who spent 19 years on death row, becomes reacquainted with his small Georgia town after being exonerated by DNA evidence in the rape and murder of his teenage girlfriend. But not everyone is happy to see him home. At 10, his sister, Amantha (Abigail Spencer), worries that the anger might spiral out of control.
10 P.M. (Showtime) THE BIG C: HEREAFTER The story of Cathy Jamison (Laura Linney) and her battle with melanoma ends with four hourlong episodes. In this Season 4 premiere she decides to host a 16th-birthday party for Adam (Gabriel Basso) over his objections. She also makes an appointment with a therapist after receiving news from Dr. Sherman (Alan Alda). Paul (Oliver Platt), meanwhile, gets some help on his motivational-speaking campaign. And Andrea (Gabourey Sidibe) has problems with her new roommate at fashion school.
10 P.M. (Cinemax) CONTAGION (2011) A mysterious pathogen sets off a pandemic after catching a flight from Hong Kong to Chicago in this Steven Soderbergh film. Manohla Dargis, writing in The Times, called it a ''smart, spooky thriller about a thicket of contemporary plagues -- a killer virus, rampaging fear, an unscrupulous blogger,'' adding that the movie was ''as ruthlessly effective as the malady at its cool, cool center.'' Gwyneth Paltrow plays one of the first casualties, an executive who has traveled to Hong Kong. Matt Damon, above left, is her husband, who watches as the disease cuts down seemingly everyone who has been within touching, kissing or handshaking distance of a carrier. The ensemble cast is filled out by Laurence Fishburne, Kate Winslet and Jennifer Ehle as employees of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Marion Cotillard as a doctor for the World Health Organization; and Jude Law as a San Francisco blogger looking to profit from the crisis. ''Mr. Soderbergh doesn't milk your tears as things fall apart,'' Ms. Dargis said, ''but a passion that can feel like cold rage is inscribed in his images of men and women isolated in the frame, in the blurred point of view of the dying and in the insistent stillness of a visual style that seems like an exhortation to look.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN GREENFIELD/MAGNOLIA PICTURES
 CLAUDETTE BARIUS/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FORENSICS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); EVIDENCE (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); DRAMA FILMS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); POETRY (71%); WRITERS (71%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (71%); TENNIS (70%); SPORTS (70%); FILM (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); SEX OFFENSES (61%); BOWLING CENTERS (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); SUICIDE (51%); DNA (50%)

PERSON: GWYNETH PALTROW (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



905 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Twitter Speaks, Markets Listen, And Fears Rise

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK and NICOLE PERLROTH

 BODY:
Could the global economy hinge on 140 characters?
That is the question the financial industry and government regulators are trying to answer after a Twitter hoax on Tuesday that claimed President Obama was injured in an explosion at the White House. That report caused the Dow Jones industrial average to drop temporarily by 150 points, erasing $136 billion in market value.
The markets recovered in minutes, but the episode has heightened concern among regulators about the combination of social media and high-frequency trading.
The vulnerability, in part, stems from the Securities and Exchange Commission's decision this month to let companies and executives use social media sites like Twitter and Facebook to broadcast market-moving news. 
High-frequency trading systems are designed to make trades based on keywords within milliseconds. The hoax message also went out on a new feature on Bloomberg's financial data terminals that delivers select Twitter posts to hedge funds, investment banks and other users.
On Tuesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission plans to hold a public meeting in Washington with a couple of dozen high-frequency traders to discuss whether there should be additional safeguards to protect against the effects of social media on markets.
Even as markets rebounded on Tuesday, some investors lost money on the quick decline while others made money if they bet on a sharp drop.
''In 2010, we passed Dodd-Frank, the big financial reform bill, but nowhere in there do they mention high-speed trading or technology,'' said Bart Chilton, a member of the trading commission. ''That's how quickly markets are morphing. Now, here we are three years later, woefully unprepared.''
The false report (''Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured'') was posted on Tuesday after Syrian hackers broke into The Associated Press's Twitter feed.
Immediately, the mood shifted on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
''It was nine, 10, 11 seconds and it was fast and then the question was 'Why'?'' said Andrew Frankel, co-president of the brokerage firm Stuart Frankel & Company.
He said traders realized shortly after that the post was a hoax since the television screens showing Bloomberg and CNBC had nothing about an explosion at the White House. Still, the episode recalled the 2010 ''flash crash,'' when an automated trading program caused the Dow to sink more than 600 points, and it left a deep skepticism of social media on the trading floor.
''You look at how quickly that happened and now everyone wants to release corporate earnings on Twitter,'' Mr. Frankel said, in between calling out, ''Sell!'' to his team. He added: ''The concern is 'How do you know what's right and what's not? How do you know what's hacked and what isn't?' ''
Spokesmen for Twitter and The A.P. declined to comment.
Even though Syrian hackers remain the prime suspects, the trading commission is now investigating 28 different futures contracts and specifically examining the five-minute period before and after The A.P.'s Twitter account was hacked. It is looking to see if there were anomalous trades, and investors who benefited from them.
''To think it was all lost because of this hack attack is very disconcerting,'' Mr. Chilton of the commission said. ''We would be irresponsible if we turned a blind eye to these debacles.''
The decision to allow market information on social media came after Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix, had posted on Facebook that the service had exceeded one billion hours of streamed video a month, sending its stock price up.
''We appreciate the value and prevalence of social media channels in contemporary market communications, and the commission supports companies seeking new ways to communicate,'' the S.E.C. said on April 2.
Two days later, Bloomberg introduced a feature on its financial data terminals that incorporates a stream of relevant Twitter posts delivered to investors. All of Bloomberg's more than 310,000 subscribers, who pay at least $20,000 a year for access to the terminals, now have access to those posts, which the company says are clearly identified as Twitter messages.
''The S.E.C.'s decision reflects the reality that we were dealing with in that this information is being distributed by companies and investors are consuming it and we needed to get it on the terminal,'' said Brian Rooney, the company's core product manager for news, adding, ''We're not in a world where people live in a vacuum.''
At the same time, the use of algorithms designed to peruse millions of sources of information like blogs and social media to analyze and execute trades is only becoming more widespread.
''The macro trend of finding patterns in words is something that will be used more and more,'' said Paul Rowady, a senior analyst at Tabb Group, a capital markets research and consulting firm.
The incorporation of social media in these algorithms is relatively new and is therefore particularly susceptible to hacking.
''A Twitter feed is structured in a way that is machine-readable, and there's a broad following so you get strong signals about topics,'' Mr. Rowady said.
Hedge funds, investors and Wall Street banks are hiring companies to sift through the hoards of social media messages. DataSift, a company that filters real-time content on social media, started in 2011 and now has more than 20 financial services clients, including Bloomberg L.P.
DataSift's computer programs siphon through posts to deliver only relevant information in two to three milliseconds.
''There's a massive tidal wave of data we can clean up and process and deliver out back to clients,'' said Rob Bailey, the company's chief executive.
The A.P.'s account was the sixth prominent Twitter account to be hacked in recent months. Accounts for CBS, NPR and BBC were all hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army, a group based in Syria, which has been attacking the accounts of Western news outlets in retaliation for what it says is one-sided coverage of the Syrian civil war.
The attack on The A.P.'s Twitter account meant that its nearly two million followers quickly disseminated the false report. Security experts who have been tracking the Syrian Electronic Army now fear that the group has been emboldened.
''It wouldn't be surprising, given the impact of this attack, for the S.E.A. to try this attack again,'' said John Scott-Railton, a research fellow at the Citizen Lab, an organization at the University of Toronto that focuses on Internet security.
Experts in electronic trading cautioned that it was not only programmed trades but also human beings who played a part in the market drop on Tuesday.
''Hundreds of thousands of financial professionals would have seen this information with chaos ensuing,'' said Rich Brown, global head of Elektron Analytics, a division of Thomson Reuters. ''There's no doubt in my mind that humans were reacting to this and it wasn't just robots.''
But, he added: ''The nature of electronic trading exacerbated the problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bart Chilton of the trading commission, which plans to discuss the effects of social media on markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); US DODD FRANK ACT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); FRANKEL & CO (63%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



906 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Recession Worsened Wealth Gap For Races

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Millions of Americans suffered a loss of wealth during the recession and the sluggish recovery that followed. But the last half-decade has proved far worse for black and Hispanic families than for white families, starkly widening the already large gulf in wealth between non-Hispanic white Americans and most minority groups, according to a new study from the Urban Institute.
''It was already dismal,'' Darrick Hamilton, a professor at the New School in New York, said of the wealth gap between black and white households. ''It got even worse.''
Given the dynamics of the housing recovery and the rebound in the stock market, the wealth gap might still be growing, experts said, further dimming the prospects for economic advancement for current and future generations of Americans from minority groups. 
The Urban Institute study found that the racial wealth gap yawned during the recession, even as the income gap between white Americans and nonwhite Americans remained stable. As of 2010, white families, on average, earned about $2 for every $1 that black and Hispanic families earned, a ratio that has remained roughly constant for the last 30 years. But when it comes to wealth -- as measured by assets, like cash savings, homes and retirement accounts, minus debts, like mortgages and credit card balances -- white families have far outpaced black and Hispanic ones. Before the recession, non-Hispanic white families, on average, were about four times as wealthy as nonwhite families, according to the Urban Institute's analysis of Federal Reserve data. By 2010, whites were about six times as wealthy.
The dollar value of that gap has grown, as well. By the most recent data, the average white family had about $632,000 in wealth, versus $98,000 for black families and $110,000 for Hispanic families.
''The racial wealth gap is deeply rooted in our society,'' said Caroline Ratcliffe, one of the authors of the Urban Institute study. ''It's here, it's not going away, and we need to care about it.''
Many experts consider the wealth gap to be more pernicious than the income gap, as it perpetuates from generation to generation and has a powerful effect on economic security and mobility. Young black people are much less likely than young white people to receive a large sum from their parents or other relatives to pay for college, start a business or make a down payment on a home, for instance. That, in turn, makes their wealth-building prospects shakier as they move into adulthood.
Two major factors helped to widen this wealth gap in recent years. The first is that the housing downturn hit black and Hispanic households harder than it hit white households, in aggregate. Many young Hispanic families, for instance, bought homes as the housing bubble was inflating and reaching its peak, leaving them saddled with heavy debt burdens as house prices plunged in places like suburban Phoenix and inland California.
Black families also were hit disproportionately by the housing collapse, because heading into the recession housing constituted a higher proportion of their wealth than for white families, leaving them more exposed when the market crashed. Higher unemployment rates and lower incomes among blacks left them less able to keep paying their mortgages and more likely to lose their homes, experts said.
Discriminatory lending practices were also a factor. ''We know that communities of color, their rate of subprime or predatory loans was twice what it is in the overall population,'' said Tom Shapiro, the director of the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University.
Black families also suffered bigger hits to their retirement savings, the Urban Institute found. On aggregate, the value of black families' retirement accounts shrank 35 percent between 2007 and 2010, while white families' accounts actually gained 9 percent over the same period. With lower earnings and higher unemployment rates leaving them with a thinner safety net to begin with, black families were more likely to take funds out of the market when it was depressed, leaving them out in the cold as the market recovered.
''That reservoir of what you can dig into for emergencies and contingencies is a lot shallower in communities of color,'' Professor Shapiro said. ''That pushes black families to sling off assets, like I.R.A.'s or stocks, that you might have had another goal in mind for.''
Something similar may be happening as the housing recovery takes hold. ''Some people talk about it in terms of a land grab,'' said Professor Hamilton of the New School, as mainly white investors are buying foreclosed homes from disproportionately minority owners. ''As the housing market starts to appreciate, some of those minority buyers might not be back.''
All in all, Hispanic families lost 44 percent of their wealth between 2007 and 2010, the Urban Institute estimates, and black families lost 31 percent. White families, by comparison, lost 11 percent of their wealth. The economic turbulence worsened a gap that has persisted for as long as social scientists have measured it, and has its roots in institutional racism, they said, which, for instance, prevented black Americans from benefiting fully from the G.I. Bill back in the 1940s and 1950s.
The Urban Institute study looked at mean wealth figures, where a small number of high-net-worth families skews the averages upward. Median wealth figures -- where half of households have more wealth and half less -- produces lower numbers, but the trends are the same, the Urban Institute researchers said.
Even if blacks and Hispanics make progress in the years ahead as the economy improves, the persistence of the wealth gap has pushed many public policy scholars to recommend the adoption of more ambitious programs to help reduce worsening inequality.
The Urban Institute suggests reforming government policies that encourage savings but disproportionately benefit the already wealthy and families with high incomes, like the home mortgage interest deduction. Automatic savings vehicles also might help lower-income and lower-wealth families start saving, it said.
Professor Hamilton has proposed ''baby bonds,'' granting savings accounts to infants, seeded with funds that allocate greater sums to families with less wealth. (Such accounts would be race-blind, Professor Hamilton emphasized.) Accountholders could tap that money as young adults, to pay for college or start a business. ''That's really going to break the link of intergenerational poverty, and the intergenerational wealth gap,'' Professor Hamilton argued.
But in the absence of such far-reaching measures, scholars and advocates remain generally pessimistic that the wealth gap will narrow even as members of minority groups increase their share of the American work force.
''The growth in the wealth divide is going to be very hard to close,'' said Dedrick Muhammad, the senior director of the economic department at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the civil rights organization. ''I don't have a positive feeling about racial wealth inequality resolving itself with the recovery.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Wealth Gap: The gap between the wealth of different races grew during the recession, with the average white family now about six times as wealthy as black and Hispanic families. The ratio of white average income to that of blacks and Hispanics has remained smaller and more steady.
Average family wealth
 Ratio of average wealth and income of whites to blacks and Hispanics (Source: The Urban Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PARENTING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); HOME PRICES (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



907 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Does Going to Church Make You Healthier?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As a seminarian and an admirer of the Stanford anthropologist T. M. Luhrmann's work, I read ''The Benefits of Church'' (column, April 21) with interest. 
While Ms. Luhrmann presents provocative findings about the benefits of worship on mental health, church leaders would be wise to temper their excitement over such positive press.
Faith and liturgy should not only build community but also challenge us to rethink the oppressive structures many of us perpetuate and benefit from. Worship that ''improves'' us is dangerous unless it also helps us turn outward to serve our neighbors.
JOSEPH PAILLÉ
Princeton, N.J., April 22, 2013
To the Editor:
Do healthy people go to church, or does church make you healthy? If the answer is that church makes you healthy, what is the mechanism? Leaving out divine intervention, what happens in church that produces health?
Economists and other social scientists have examined the relationship between health and social capital, which includes church, social clubs and having a support network of friends. Social capital provides information on health habits, better doctors or hospitals, and reduces stress, which can lead to heart disease and mental problems.
But we must confront the problem of causation. Those who attend church are on average healthier than those who do not: the selection effect. To deal with this, we would need to study the health of those who are randomly assigned to attend church and who do not attend.
Without this evidence, we can only hope that going to church makes us healthier, though it might be a good thing anyway.
RICHARD SCHEFFLER Madrid, April 22, 2013
The writer is a professor of health economics and public policy at the University of California, Berkeley.
To the Editor:
T. M. Luhrmann's claims about the health benefits of attending church simply don't stand up to scientific scrutiny. The evidence that attendance boosts the immune system and lowers blood pressure comes from studies that are significantly flawed.
Moreover, the findings about the health benefits of religious devotion often vary between men and women, and younger and older people, and are overwhelmingly derived from studies of Christians to the exclusion of other religious groups.
Finally, evidence increasingly points to religiosity as a mere marker of underlying physiological and genetic factors that are the true influences of health and well-being. People should attend religious services because they choose to, not in futile pursuit of some specious health effects.
RICHARD P. SLOAN New York, April 22, 2013
The writer, a professor of behavioral medicine at Columbia University Medical Center, is the author of ''Blind Faith: The Unholy Alliance of Religion and Medicine.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); WRITERS (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); HEART DISEASE (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



908 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5020 words

HEADLINE: A Drug War Informer in No Man's Land

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON; Karla Zabludovsky contributed reporting, and Lisa Schwartz contributed research.

 BODY:
The forecast called for record snowstorms, and Luis Octavio López Vega had no heat in his small hide-out.
Thieves had run off with the propane tanks on the camper that Mr. López had parked in the shadow of a towering grain elevator, near an abandoned industrial park. Rust had worn through the floor of his pickup truck, which he rarely dared to drive because he has neither a license nor insurance. His colitis was flaring so badly he could barely sit up straight, a consequence of the breakfast burrito and diet soda that had become part of his daily diet. He had not worked in months and was down to his last $250.
Going to a shelter might have opened him to questions about his identity that he did not want to answer, and reaching out to his family might have put them at odds with the law.
''I cannot go on like this, living day to day and going nowhere,'' Mr. López, 64, said one night last winter. ''I feel like I'm running in place. After so many years, it's exhausting.'' 
Mr. López, a native of Mexico, said in Spanish that he has lived under the radar in the western United States for more than a decade, camouflaging himself among the waves of immigrants who came across the border around the same time. Like so many of his compatriots, he works an assortment of low-wage jobs available to people without a green card. But while Mr. López blends into that resilient population with his calloused hands and thrift-store wardrobe, his predicament goes far beyond his immigration status.
Mr. López played a leading role in what is widely considered the biggest drug-trafficking case in Mexican history. The episode -- which inspired the 2000 movie ''Traffic'' -- pitted the Mexican military against the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. Throughout the 1990s, Mr. López worked closely with them both. He served as a senior adviser to the powerful general who was appointed Mexico's drug czar. And he was an informant for the D.E.A.
His two worlds collided spectacularly in 1997, when Mexico arrested the general, Jesús Gutiérrez Rebollo, on charges of collaborating with drug traffickers. As Washington tried to make sense of the charges, both governments went looking for Mr. López. Mexico considered him a suspect in the case; the D.E.A. saw him as a potential gold mine of information.
The United States found him first. The D.E.A. secretly helped Mr. López and his family escape across the border in exchange for his cooperation with its investigation.
Dozens of hours of testimony from Mr. López about links between the military and drug cartels proved to be explosive, setting off a dizzying chain reaction in which Mexico asked the United States for help capturing Mr. López, Washington denied any knowledge of his whereabouts and the D.E.A. abruptly severed its ties with him.
The reserved, unpretentious husband and father of three has been a fugitive ever since, on the run from his native country and abandoned by his adopted home. For more than a decade, he has carried information about the inner workings of the drug war that both governments carefully kept secret.
The United States continues to feign ignorance about his whereabouts when pressed by Mexican officials, who still ask for assistance to find him, a federal law enforcement official said.
The cover-up was initially led by the D.E.A., whose agents did not believe the Mexican authorities had a legitimate case against their informant. Other law enforcement agencies later went along, out of fear that the D.E.A.'s relationship with Mr. López might disrupt cooperation between the two countries on more pressing matters.
''We couldn't tell Mexico that we were protecting the guy, because that would have affected their cooperation with us on all kinds of other programs,'' said a former senior D.E.A. official who was involved in the case but was not authorized to speak publicly about a confidential informant. ''So we cut him loose, and hoped he'd find a way to make it on his own.''
These are the opaque dynamics that undermine the alliance between the United States and Mexico in the war on drugs, a fight that often feels more like shadow boxing. Though the governments are bound together by geography, neither believes the other can be fully trusted. Mr. López's ordeal -- pieced together from classified D.E.A. intelligence reports and interviews with him, his family, friends, and more than a dozen current and former federal law enforcement officials -- demonstrates why the mutual distrust is justified.
The absence of any facts to either condemn Mr. López or exonerate him of corruption has wrought havoc on the former informant, and his fugitive's existence has been a ball and chain on his family, whom he sees during sporadic rendezvous. They all exhibit symptoms of emotional trauma, bouncing among flashes of rage, long periods of depression, episodes of binge drinking and persistent paranoia.
During several long interviews, Mr. López repeatedly said he was not guilty of any wrongdoing. He said he has refused to turn himself in to the Mexican authorities because he believes he will be killed rather than given a fair hearing. But years of living an anonymous, circumscribed life have been nearly as suffocating as a jail cell.
He starts most mornings at McDonald's, where breakfast costs less than $2 for seniors and free Wi-Fi allows him to peruse Mexican newspapers on his battered laptop for hours, his mind replaying the life choices that landed him there.
''I risked my life in Mexico because I believed things could change. I was wrong. Nothing has changed,'' Mr. López said. ''I helped the United States because I believed that if all else failed, this government would support me. But I was wrong again. And now, I've lost everything.''The Military Steps In
These days, Mr. López wonders whether he is losing his mind as well. Last September, he took his troubles to a psychiatrist at a health clinic, telling her how his emotions were running erratically from hot to cold and about his difficulty sleeping. An hour later, he left with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder and a bottle of pills he decided not to take.
Sipping Diet Coke in a sunlit hotel room, Mr. López explained that he felt it was riskier to become dependent on medication that could be confiscated if he fell into police custody. More important, he said, the whole diagnosis was based on a lie -- one of the many he tells to get by each day. When the doctor asked him what might be causing his stress, he told her that his family had turned against him.
''Imagine telling her what is really going on in my life,'' Mr. López said. ''Where would I start? That I once helped capture El Güero Palma, and now I'm being treated like a delinquent?''
Ballads were written in Mexico about the day in 1995 when the authorities took down Héctor Luis Palma Salazar, known as ''El Güero,'' the fearsome kingpin of the Sinaloa cartel. Mr. Palma met his fate on the outskirts of Guadalajara in suburban Zapopan, a nexus for everybody who was anybody in the drug war.
Mr. López served nearly two decades in the municipal police department there, most of them as chief. Politically astute and streetwise, he caught the attention of the D.E.A., which developed him as a confidential source during the mid-1990s and valued him for the reliability of his information.
Drug violence was raging. When things got too heated, Mr. López sought backup from General Gutiérrez, a powerful ally whose territory spanned five Mexican states. It was part of a secret arrangement, Mr. López said, in which his officers shared information about the cartels with the military and the general provided extra muscle to the Zapopan police.
At home, Mr. López's wife and three children lived surrounded by bodyguards and snipers. With her husband often absent, Soledad López had her hands full with the children. Their oldest child, David, got his high school girlfriend pregnant. Luis Octavio failed eighth grade three times. Cecilia, the youngest, did not understand the tumult around her, and Mrs. López worked to protect her from it.
By the time Mr. Palma crossed his path, Mr. López had retired to start a private security firm. Mr. Palma had been on his way to a wedding when his private plane crashed in the mountains near Zapopan. Federal police officers who were on the Sinaloa payroll swept him from the scene and hid him in a house belonging to a supervisor.
When Mr. López's security guards began receiving reports of suspicious activity there, they alerted him and the military. No one realized they had stumbled across one of the world's most notorious drug traffickers until Mr. López discovered a .45 Colt with the shape of a palm tree, or ''palma,'' encrusted on its handle in diamonds, rubies and sapphires.
''It could only belong to one person,'' Mr. López said.
The arrest was hailed on both sides of the border to justify the unprecedented role the Mexican military was beginning to play under President Ernesto Zedillo. The D.E.A. had long been pressuring Mexico to deploy the military against the cartels instead of the federal police, which often worked with traffickers instead of against them.
The agency was already secretly collaborating with General Gutiérrez. Ralph Villarruel, a veteran D.E.A. agent who had been working with Mr. López, said he pursued suspects the general believed were in hiding in the United States and seized loads of cocaine moving across the border. In return, he said, the general allowed him ''unbelievable access'' to crime scenes, suspects and evidence.
After Mr. Palma's arrest, Mr. López and General Gutiérrez let Mr. Villarruel make copies of names and numbers in the drug trafficker's cellphone. An appreciative Mr. Villarruel said he arranged with his bosses in Mexico City to award the general a special commendation.
''We were doing things we hadn't ever been able to do, and I wanted to acknowledge that,'' Mr. Villarruel said, pulling out a photograph of the closed-door occasion.
By December 1996, Mr. Zedillo elevated General Gutiérrez to run counternarcotics efforts as the director of Mexico's National Institute to Combat Drugs. The move was a victory for the administration of President Bill Clinton, which had put in effect the North American Free Trade Agreement and orchestrated a $50 billion bailout of the Mexican economy. Cracking down on drug traffickers hardly seemed too much to ask of the United States' neighbor.
In General Gutiérrez, who had the face and demeanor of a pit bull, the United States saw the no-nonsense partner it had been seeking. The administration invited him to Washington for briefings, and the United States' drug policy coordinator, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, praised him as a soldier ''of absolute, unquestioned integrity.''
It seemed a head-spinning turn of events for a little-known military leader who could count his suits on one hand and had never traveled outside Mexico. When the general asked Mr. López to be his chief of staff, though, he was apprehensive about moving to the capital. But the general insisted.
''Going to work in Mexico City felt like falling into a snake pit,'' Mr. López said. ''I had a bad feeling about the whole thing.'''There's a Problem'
Less than three months later, Mr. López was in Guadalajara for the birth of a grandchild when he suspected something had happened to his boss. He had been calling General Gutiérrez for days without success. Finally, he got the general's driver on the phone.
''I don't know where he is,'' the driver said, according to Mr. López. ''You shouldn't call here anymore. I can't talk on this phone. Perhaps they're already listening. What the hell, you need to know. There's a problem.''
''Is it a bad problem?'' Mr. López asked.
''It's global,'' the driver exhaled.
When Mr. López hung up and called the military base in Guadalajara, the commander there summoned him to a ''counternarcotics operation.''
''I didn't know exactly what was going on,'' Mr. López said, ''but I knew that a trap was waiting for me at the base.''
He told his family to leave Zapopan and warned his aides to stay away from the base. For several days, Mr. López kept out of sight, camping out in abandoned barns and beneath bridges while the military seized his house and searched his belongings.
On Feb. 19, 1997, the Mexican defense minister, Enrique Cervantes Aguirre, held a dramatic televised news conference and accused General Gutiérrez of using his authority to help protect Amado Carrillo Fuentes, a drug baron nicknamed ''The Lord of the Skies,'' for his use of converted jetliners to move multiton shipments of cocaine.
The defense minister said that when General Gutiérrez was confronted with evidence of the association, he collapsed from what appeared to be a heart attack.
With checkpoints going up around Guadalajara, it seemed impossible for Mr. López to leave, and he was so well known he feared he could not hide for long. Borrowing a page from the drug trafficker's playbook, Mr. López went to see a plastic surgeon to alter his appearance. Using a false name, he handed the surgeon $2,000 in cash and got a face-lift.
In Washington, the Clinton administration summoned Mexican diplomats, demanding to know why their government had not shared its suspicions about General Gutiérrez before his trip to the United States. Congress called on the White House to void Mexico's standing as a reliable ally in the drug war, a move that could lead to sanctions against a country buying up American exports. The episode threatened security cooperation between the two countries.
The Justice Department ordered the D.E.A. to explain how it could have missed evidence that General Gutiérrez was dirty. The D.E.A. turned to Mr. Villarruel, who began looking for Mr. López.
Most of Mr. López's staff members had disappeared, said Mr. Villarruel, who learned that the military had rounded them up for questioning and that some of them had been tortured or worse. ''My sources were dropping like flies,'' said Mr. Villarruel, a veteran agent and native of East Chicago, Ind., who has family roots in Guadalajara. ''One day I'd be talking to a guy, the next day he'd be dead.''
The D.E.A.'s message reached Mr. López in May 1997, just as he and his family thought they had run out of options. The scars around his face had healed and he had dropped 70 pounds, trading his ''Vitamin T diet'' -- tacos, tostadas and tamales -- for salads and turkey sandwiches. He had dyed his hair blond and shaved his beard. Still, he said he feared the military would eventually catch up with him.
Meanwhile, his family was struggling with an even more pressing matter. The grandchild born around the time of the general's arrest was sick. Her complexion was turning blue and her breathing was labored.
The family was so terrified of being discovered that it agonized for days before taking the child to the hospital. Doctors diagnosed pulmonary stenosis, which restricted the blood flowing to her lungs. She was breathing easier after surgery, but her father, David, was not. ''I knew she was going to need a lot more care,'' he said. ''How could I take care of her if I couldn't even give her a home?''
Only 22, he was now the de facto head of a family on the run. For safety's sake, he was the only one who knew his father's whereabouts, a secret he hoped he could keep if the military found him.
''I remember telling my dad, 'If the military detains me, give me three days,' '' he recalled. ''The first day of torture would be the hardest. The second day, they might realize I was not going to tell them where he was and let me go. But if I didn't appear the third day, I might never appear again.''
Later that May, the D.E.A. opened an escape hatch, offering the family a haven in the United States and arranging work permits and visas. Making the trip were Mr. López's wife, three children, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. The family members made their way to Utah, where they had a friend.
Mr. López followed a couple weeks later. Wearing a navy blue suit and a fedora he bought for the journey, he arrived in the United States with a briefcase packed with his life's savings, $100,000, and visions of starting over.On the Run
This January, Mr. López and his son Luis Octavio headed to Wendy's for a 99-cent hamburger special. When his son handed over two dollars for their order, a few cents short of the total, an embarrassed Mr. López had to tell him that he could not cover the difference.
Money, or the lack of it, has been the hardest part of living in hiding, Mr. López said. His savings ran out long ago, and most employers are not interested in a 64-year-old man with no Social Security card or documented work history. He has tried day jobs as a dishwasher and a construction worker, but his back is not strong enough.
Fortunately, he said, he has an eye for junk. He inherited it from his father, who ran a car battery repair shop. Mr. López has taken that talent up a notch, scavenging for discarded auto parts, office equipment and home appliances that he restores and resells. But it is always a skate across thin ice, and Mr. López wakes up many days with no money and nothing left to sell.
His dire circumstances reflect a precipitous fall from his arrival in the United States as a prized informant. The inside account he gave to Mr. Villarruel and other D.E.A. officials amounted to a bombshell, according to former agents involved with the case and classified intelligence reports obtained by The New York Times.
He claimed that the Mexican military was negotiating a deal to protect the cartels in exchange for a cut of their profits. Mr. López specifically accused several top officers of being involved, saying some had asked the cartels for $2,000 per kilogram of cocaine that passed through Mexican territory.
As a down payment, cartel operatives delivered satchels packed with tens of millions of dollars to senior members of the military, according to Mr. López. He also accused American-trained counternarcotics units of allowing kingpins to escape during sting operations.
''It is highly likely that military officials probably wanted to continue to profit from an ongoing relationship with the drug traffickers,'' concluded one intelligence report.
Mr. López said he told the D.E.A. that he did not believe General Gutiérrez was among those conspiring with traffickers. But the intelligence reports suggested that the general had ties to the Juárez cartel, and that the relationship may have posed a threat to other military officers who were being paid by rival drug-trafficking organizations.
By 1998, some of that information began appearing in Congressional briefings and newspaper reports, pitting the D.E.A. against the White House. It was inopportune timing for the Clinton administration, which was now applauding the general's arrest as proof of the Mexican military's commitment to combating corruption.
The White House opposed any measures that would undermine the United States' second-largest trading partner. The D.E.A. accused Mexico of failing to live up to its security commitments, and it advocated taking action that could lead to economic sanctions. ''There was definitely a split between us and the White House over Mexico,'' a former senior D.E.A. official said.
Mexico, which was still trying to track down Mr. López, intensified its search in 1999. The Foreign Ministry requested Washington's assistance to determine whether he lived in the United States, a senior American federal law enforcement official said. United States marshals reported back that he did.
Later that year, Mr. Villarruel asked Mr. López to meet him at a Denny's in San Diego. Mr. López could tell something was amiss when Mr. Villarruel arrived alone and had a hard time looking Mr. López in the eye.
''I told him I had orders from Washington that I couldn't have anything to do with him no more,'' Mr. Villarruel recalled. ''I could tell there was some kind of pressure, but I couldn't tell if it was from Congress, or from Mexico, or where. All I knew was that if I had anything more to do with him, I could get in trouble.''
The orders meant that ''from that moment, the agency wasn't going to protect me or my family,'' said Mr. López, who was shocked and confused.
When Mexico ousted the Institutional Revolutionary Party in 2000, an era of multiparty democracy did not clean the slate. The new government officially charged Mr. López, issuing an arrest warrant, and promptly asked the United States to find him, former American officials said.
Mexican officials discussed the matter with the American attorney general and the secretary of state at the time, John Ashcroft and Colin L. Powell, according to D.E.A. memos and e-mails. Federal marshals received two to three calls a day from the Mexican authorities asking how close they were to detaining Mr. López, one memo shows.
Mr. Villarruel implored the D.E.A. to ignore Mexico's extradition request. Mr. López is ''one of a few individuals remaining who can provide extremely damaging information on high-level, drug-related corruption within the Mexican government,'' Mr. Villarruel wrote to his bosses. He warned that ''if López Vega is returned to Mexican authorities, it is highly likely that López Vega will be tortured and/or killed.''
But D.E.A. officials refused to interfere with the arrest warrant.
Defying orders, Mr. Villarruel warned Mr. López to watch his back.
About five months later, Mr. López was meeting his sons at a relative's house in California when he noticed suspicious people hanging out in the neighborhood. He immediately jumped in a car and sped away.
Seconds later, SWAT teams, canine units and helicopters from the federal marshal's office descended. Officers tried to catch up with Mr. López but failed.
''I had a 20-second head start,'' Mr. López said. ''When you're on the run, 20 seconds is a lot of time.''Adjusting to a New Life
As Mr. López and his family contended with their new lives in the United States, a story with similar twists and turns began playing in movie theaters across the country. The film, ''Traffic,'' was hailed as a landmark for dissecting the cross-border forces driving the drug war. It featured the United States pinning its hopes on a mercurial Mexican general, inspired by General Gutiérrez, who is later caught working for the cartels.
The general was allied with a Mexican police officer, played by Benicio Del Toro, who crosses the border and gives information to the D.E.A. The character was a composite of informants developed with the help of a D.E.A. consultant and was not modeled on Mr. López, whose existence has never been acknowledged by the American government. The film ends with the officer returning to Mexico and using the money the agency paid him to have lights installed at a baseball field in a poor neighborhood.
Off screen, the real-life version headed in an unhappier direction. After Mr. López went into hiding, the American government revoked his family's visas and work permits, forcing them into their own kind of stealth existence among Utah's growing population of Mexican immigrants.
Mr. López's wife, Soledad, suddenly had to fend for herself, learn English and get a job. Their daughter, Cecilia, began drinking and dropped out of college, hoping that if she rebelled enough her father would return.
The couple's sons, David and Luis Octavio, managed the family's affairs and bore the brunt of the psychological trauma. ''We're all damaged,'' said Luis Octavio, 35. ''We don't talk much about the times when we wish we could run away from our situation. But we've all felt that way.''
In the aftermath of the raid in California, the brothers fended off questions from federal marshals who pointed guns in their faces and threatened to deport them unless they revealed their father's location.
For the next few years, the elder son, David, followed his father into hiding, rarely seeing his own wife and children. His movements underground were like something out of a spy novel. By day, he worked odd jobs. In the evenings, he ducked into gas stations, changed clothes and hired taxis so he could see his father without being followed. He created a code for their pager communications and rented places to hide.
''I promised him I would stand by his side until this whole thing was over,'' recalled David, 38. ''I had no idea it would go on for so long.''
In Utah, Luis Octavio worked two jobs to help support his family. Because he had married an American after arriving in Utah, he did not have to worry about deportation. But he tried to find a legal way out of the ordeal for the others.
In 2002, he met with the same federal marshals who were looking for his father, hoping to make the case that the elder Mr. López had been betrayed by the D.E.A. One marshal, Michael Wingert, told Luis Octavio that he sympathized, but that the United States could not shield his father from the Mexican charges, according to a recording of the meeting made by Luis Octavio.
''We can only assume with a case like this that your dad's got some enemies in really powerful positions in Mexico, and they want him back,'' Mr. Wingert said.
Several years later, in 2007, the López family made their own power play. They shared their story with aides to Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the former chairman of the influential Judiciary Committee. The senator's staff members in Salt Lake City would not comment on their role, except to say that they referred the matter to the Justice and Homeland Security Departments, which helped the family obtain political asylum in 2011.
By then, David had returned home to Utah, where his wife gave birth to their third child. With no consistent work history, he has not been able to find a full-time job.
Luis Octavio got a bachelor's degree and a recruitment job at a college. But his family's history continues to hold him back. Last year, when he was profiled in a local newspaper as a model of how much Mexican immigrants have contributed to Utah, he lied about why his family came to this country. When approached about possibly taking a business trip to Guadalajara recently, he was tempted to go, if only out of defiance.
''I feel a tremendous sense of impotence,'' he said, ''and the only tool I have to cope with that feeling is to separate myself, and act like my father's situation doesn't exist.''The Pursuit Continues
Mr. López had settled into a booth at McDonald's one recent morning when his cellphone rang. A woman on the line said she had a recorded message for him. The next voice he heard belonged to General Gutiérrez.
''They tried to finish me, but they didn't succeed. I'm still here,'' the general said, his voice barely above a whisper, according to Mr. López.
General Gutiérrez, 88 and suffering from terminal prostate cancer, was speaking from a bed in the same military hospital where he had collapsed after his arrest 16 years earlier. He has not quite served half of his 40-year sentence, but he had been released from prison and his relatives said his rank had been restored so that he could receive military medical care.
''They haven't left us with much,'' the general told Mr. López, ''but we must protect the little we have left.''
In January, the Mexican government once again raised Mr. López's case with the American authorities, according to a Mexican official. The Justice Department asked for confirmation that the charges against Mr. López were still valid, and the Mexican government is expected to report back within the coming weeks, the Mexican official said.
''Until then,'' he said, ''the case is not closed, as far as we are concerned.''
The Justice Department and the D.E.A. said they could not comment on a case that involved a confidential informant. But an American law enforcement official who has fielded some of Mexico's requests said Washington was stalling for time, hoping the charges would be dropped. The United States is no closer to understanding whether Mr. López is guilty or the target of Mexican officials who wanted to silence him, the American official said.
''If it was up to us, we'd make this case go away,'' the official said. ''But if Mexico decides it still wants him, I'm not sure how the United States is going to say no.''
Security cooperation between the United States and Mexico has been strained since December, when Enrique Peña Nieto began his term as president of Mexico. His administration believes that his predecessor, Felipe Calderón, allowed the United States to play too big a role in setting Mexico's security agenda and in staging law enforcement operations, officials in both countries said.
The Obama administration has struggled to negotiate new terms of cooperation, the officials said, and President Obama is scheduled to travel to Mexico this week.
Meanwhile, the violence that has left about 60,000 people dead over the past five years rages on. And the military has been so demoralized by accusations of corruption and human rights abuses that some of its leaders openly wonder whether to pull out of the fight against drug traffickers.
Mr. López religiously tracks these developments during his morning coffee breaks at McDonald's, looking for clues that might help him make sense of his own situation. Mr. Villarruel, now retired from the D.E.A., is one of his few contacts from his former life. Mr. López said he sees public attention as his only hope for a return to something resembling a normal existence. ''For better or worse, it's time that I defend myself,'' Mr. López said.
When asked what he would do if he ran out of money, Mr. López shrugged and said he would figure something out. He compares himself to Prometheus, the Greek mythological figure whose punishment for stealing fire and giving it to humans was to be tortured, surviving only to face the same torment the next day.
''Every day is like the first day for me,'' he said. ''From the moment I wake up until the moment I lay down, I am thinking, thinking, thinking about what happened to me. I try to make sense of things that don't make sense. And it eats away at me. And it eats away at my family. Then the next day, I wake up and start all over again.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with an article about Luis Octavio López Vega, a former Drug Enforcement Agency informant who has been living in hiding in the United States as Mexican officials seek his arrest, included an erroneous credit in some copies. The photograph of Mr. López as a police chief in Mexico was taken by Monica Almeida of The New York Times -- not Almando Gonzalez of The Associated Press.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A GLIMPSE OF THE PAST: Luis Octavio López Vega, left, once a police chief in Mexico, has been hiding in the United States for years and has changed his appearance. He played a leading role in what is widely considered the biggest drug-trafficking case in Mexican history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALMANDO GONZALEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Luis Octavio López Vega was an adviser to Mexico's chief counternarcotics official and a Drug Enforcement Administration informer. After the official's arrest, Mexico also sought Mr. López. He and his family escaped to America with the D.E.A.'s help, but the agency later severed ties with him.
After ties were cut and Mr. López, now 64, went into hiding, his wife, Soledad, 57, above, had to learn English and get a job. His son David, 38, top center, also hid, and his daughter, Cecilia, 28, top right, left school. (A12)
Ralph Villarruel, top and middle, worked with Mr. López as a D.E.A. agent in the 1990s. Mr. Villarruel arranged for Gen. Jesús Gutiérrez Rebollo, Mexico's drug czar, above center, to receive a special commendation for his help. Mr. López, before a face-lift, is on the far right, and Mr. Villarruel is second from the left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. López in 1995 helped capture Héctor Luis Palma Salazar, right, the head of the Sinaloa cartel who was known as ''El Güero.'' Mr. López then served as an adviser to General Gutiérrez, left, who was appointed chief counternarcotics official. In 1997, the general was arrested on charges of collaborating with traffickers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ALMANDO GONZALEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (86%); WEATHER (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (57%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); CARTELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



909 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Does the College Major Matter? Not Really

BYLINE: JEFFREY J. SELINGO


HIGHLIGHT: Rather than recommend majors of the future, here are four activities to help develop the skills necessary to succeed in the work force of tomorrow. If you focus on these activities, the majors won&#8217;t matter as much. 

 BODY:
 Jeffrey J. Selingo is the editor at large of The Chronicle of Higher Education and the author of "College (Un)Bound: The Future of Higher Education and What It Means for Students," to be published May 7 by New Harvest. This post is adapted from the book. 
This week, the last of the high school seniors who have yet to make up their minds about where they're going to college in the fall, will finally put their deposit check in the mail and end the college search process that for some began years ago. 
So much time, effort and money goes into picking the right college, but then too many students fail to engage in the process that follows: getting ready for their first year and figuring out what they want to get out of the entire college experience. It's why some 400,000 students drop out of college each year and why one-third of students now transfer at least once before earning a degree. 
One of the decisions you'll need to make early on - if you haven't already - is picking a major. Choosing what you want to do for the rest of your life is fraught with anxiety for many students, so you're not alone if you have no idea what to choose.

Nine in 10 college students say it is important to find a major that is interesting "no matter how practical it is," according to a survey conducted by the University of California, Los Angeles. Almost as many say that the skills they gain in college will be useful on the job no matter what they major in.
Majors are also seen as fungible - if you don't like your field of study, trade it in for another one or add a different major to the one you already have. By the end of their first year, a quarter of all freshmen change their minds about their field of study. 
So does the college major matter? I posed that question recently to my roommate at Ithaca College, who like me, majored in journalism. He had known since middle school what he wanted to do - become a television journalist. Now almost 20 years after we both graduated, David Muir is an anchor and correspondent for ABC World News. 
He works with plenty of people who do not have journalism degrees. The commonality among them, he says, is that "we all majored in what we were interested in. The curiosity and the willingness to adapt are more important than what the degree is in."
These are many of the same qualities that employers say, in survey after survey, they want in future workers. Hiring managers complain that they often find today's college graduates lacking in interpersonal skills, problem solving, effective written and oral communication skills, the ability to work in teams, and critical and analytical thinking. Employers say that future workplaces need degree holders who can come up with novel solutions to problems and better sort through information to filter out the most critical pieces.
The economy is changing at warp speed. Rather than recommend majors of the future, here are four activities to help develop the skills necessary to succeed in the work force of tomorrow. If you focus on these activities, the majors won't matter as much.
 1. Seek Passionate Faculty Members 
Finding passionate, engaged professors is critically important in the first year of college, when it is easy to remain anonymous in large lecture classes. Getting to know at least one faculty member well in that year improves the chances that you will get more from your college experience (including a degree).
 2. Dive Deep Into a Research Project 
Nearly a third of college seniors produce some sort of capstone project, and increasingly students are producing major research projects every year. Studies have found that undergraduate research stimulates critical thinking, gives students a better understanding of what they learned from a lecture, allows them to work in situations with uncertain results, and provides a sense of accomplishment.
 3. Go On a Transformative Global Experience 
There is growing recognition that overseas study in college helps in the global job market. Those who study abroad often see it as a life-changing experience. In one survey of alumni, it was the most significant aspect of their undergraduate years, ranking higher than college friendships and courses.
 4. Be Creative. Take Risks. Learn How to Fail. 
Many academics believe students have lost the ability to be creative - to learn through doing, to learn through failing, to learn through just having fun. Be sure to seek out learning environments where you can be creative, try things out, and, on occasion, fail.
It doesn't matter what you focus on, as long as you "focus on it in a rigorous way," says Richard Arum, the co-author of "Academically Adrift," a 2011 book which found that nearly a third of students failed to improve their writing, complex reasoning, or critical-thinking skills after four years of college. 
Like the credential itself, the high price of college has made the major a means to an end for students. For many, college increasingly is regarded as a long list to check off - classes to take, experiences to acquire, and a major to declare.
Gaining underlying skills and knowledge is often an afterthought and it shouldn't be. Spend as much time planning the next four years as you did getting to this point.
 To comment on what Mr. Selingo has written here, please join the discussion in the comments box below. 

        
Common Application Is Removing a Surprising Essay Topic
        
For the Undecided, Some Resources to Help Make a College Choice
        
Tip Sheet: Making the Final College Decision
        
Amherst, Yale or Elsewhere?
        
Leaving India for the Ivy League

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); LABOR FORCE (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (65%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%) Colleges and Universities; Chronicle of Higher Education; Ithaca College; Decision Time; For Counselors; For Parents; For Seniors; Tip Sheet

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Chronicle of Higher Education; Ithaca College

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



910 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: The Welfare Queen of Denmark

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Ronald Reagan&#8217;s &#8220;welfare queen&#8221; lives on, shadowing discussions of social spending and austerity, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
To anyone who lived through Ronald Reagan's presidency, it's a familiar story. It begins with a detailed description of a woman living high off the hog on welfare. Then it asserts that runaway social spending poses a threat to economic growth and well-being. The up-close-and-personal touch makes a more memorable case for austerity than an argument based on numbers like debt ratios and growth rates. 
The headline on Suzanne Daley's article about a political kerfuffle in Denmark, recently published in The New York Times, summarizes its main point: "Danes Rethink a Welfare State Ample to a Fault." The star of this story, dubbed "Carina," is real, unlike the single mother in Ronald Reagan's famously fictional anecdote. 
But the economic claims made in the debate go far beyond "welfare" (means-tested benefits) to concerns about the effects of excessive assistance to students and pensioners - recapitulating the evolution of austerity arguments in the United States from the early 1990s to the present. 
Certainly, policy debates in Denmark, as here, reflect partisan dynamics. In 2001, a conservative coalition came to power in Denmark, with the strong support of the anti-immigration Danish People's Party. The Social Democratic Party regained power by a narrow margin in 2011. Many members of this party see support for mothers like Carina as a means of reducing child poverty; as in the United States, conservatives put a lower priority on this goal. 
Most important, however, are the economic arguments that come into play, both within this article and the larger genre. Ms. Daley reports concern that public benefits reduce incentives to work. While Danish labor-force participation rates are higher than those in the United States, average hours worked are lower because of more part-time employment, longer vacations and paid family leaves from work.

Is this a problem? It's not as though the supply of hours to paid employment is constraining economic growth in Denmark or elsewhere. On the contrary, distressingly high rates of unemployment in both the United States and Europe indicate a shortfall of labor demand. Many Americans would love longer vacations and paid family leaves. 
As Ms. Daley points out, surveys rank Denmark as the happiest country in the world and even conservative politicians are not suggesting abandoning the Danish model. 
Christian Bjornskov, an economics professor at Aarhus Business School, elaborates: "We probably spend our money differently here. We don't buy big houses or big cars, we like to spend our money on socializing with others." 
But note that the Danes are neither lazy nor poor. Despite high marginal tax rates (or perhaps because of them) they are about as rich, on average, as Americans are. The World Bank estimates that gross domestic product per capita in Denmark for the 2008-12 period at $59,889, compared with $48,112 for the United States. Adjusted for differences in the cost of living, Danes' G.D.P. per capita is slightly lower than ours. 
The Danes spend far less on health care per capita than we do in the United States, yet achieve better health outcomes in many areas, including life expectancy. Their child poverty rates are far lower: About 6.5 percent of Danish children live in families with disposable incomes under 50 percent of the median, compared with 23.1 percent in the United States. 
The Danish banking system, like most, took a hit in the financial crisis. But its banking regulations prevented major losses in mortgage lending. Overall levels of public debt as a percentage of G.D.P. are far lower than ours, and remain well below the European Union average.
In short, the Danish record offers no support for the social-spending-hurts-growth position. That doesn't mean that some economists can't figure out a way to make that argument anyway. For instance, Daron Acemoglu, James A. Robinson and Thierry Verdier have devised a theoretical model to show why what they term "cuddly" capitalism of the Danish sort may just be free-riding on the "cutthroat" capitalism of the United States sort. 
The model posits that cutthroat levels of inequality, as in the United States, promote high levels of technological innovation. The benefits of these innovations cross national borders to help Danes and other Scandinavians achieve growth. In other words, they may be able to get away with being "cuddly," but some country (like the United States) just has to be tough enough to reward risk-taking, even if it leads to hurt feelings.
The gendered language deployed in this model echoes a general tendency to view social spending in feminine terms: women like to cuddle and are often described as more risk-averse than men. It's not uncommon to see the term "nanny state" used as a synonym for the welfare state. 
Call the Scandinavians sissies if you like, but plenty of evidence in the latest World Competitiveness Report testifies to high levels of overall innovation there - as you might expect in economies even more export-oriented than our own. Danes are world leaders in renewable energy technology, especially wind power. 
Danes may do plenty of cuddling, but their form of capitalism is more aptly described as team-based. And international competition remains, to a very large extent, a team sport. 
And about welfare queens: According to Ms. Daley, Carina is taking home about $32,400 a year in public assistance. A constitutional monarchy, Denmark spends roughly $52 million to $70 million a year supporting its royal family, headed by Queen Margrethe II. 
Yet the Danish royal family is considered the most popular in Europe. Maybe that's because queens can't always be judged by their record of paid employment. 

        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
The Labor Market Post-Budget Deal
        
Jobless Benefits as an Antipoverty Program
        
Social Insurance and Layoffs
        
Trickle-Down Fairy Dust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); CHILD POVERTY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Denmark; Politics and Government; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Social Conditions and Trends; Unemployment Insurance; Today's Economist

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%) Reagan, Ronald Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPE (79%) Denmark

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



911 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Hoax on Twitter That Moved Markets Raises Worries

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: After a Twitter hoax caused the Dow to drop temporarily by 150 points, regulators are increasingly concerned about the combination of social media and high-frequency trading. 

 BODY:
 Could the global economy hinge on 140 characters?
That is the question the financial industry and government regulators are trying to answer after a Twitter hoax on Tuesday that claimed President Obama was injured in an explosion at the White House. That report caused the Dow Jones industrial average to drop temporarily by 150 points, erasing $136 billion in market value, Amy Chozick and Nicole Perlroth report in The New York Times on Monday. 
The markets recovered in minutes, but the episode has heightened concern among regulators about the combination of social media and high-frequency trading.
The vulnerability, in part, stems from the Securities and Exchange Commission's decision this month to let companies and executives use social media sites like Twitter and Facebook to broadcast market-moving news.
High-frequency trading systems are designed to make trades based on keywords within milliseconds. The hoax message also went out on a new feature on Bloomberg's financial data terminals that delivers select Twitter posts to hedge funds, investment banks and other users.
On Tuesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission plans to hold a public meeting in Washington with a couple of dozen high-frequency traders to discuss whether there should be additional safeguards to protect against the effects of social media on markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); FUTURES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



912 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1884 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: 6,297 Chinese Restaurants

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Why the United States is a hot, emerging market. Here comes the online sales tax. And why you shouldn&#8217;t take taxis in Las Vegas. Also, do you think you understand your own business? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 Must Reads 
Mark Suster shares a favorite story about an entrepreneur. Jason Zweig maintains there are five compelling reasons the United States is a hot emerging market.
 The Economy: Increased Tonnage 
Growth fails to meet expectations. Orders for durable goods plunged 5.7 percent in March and recent factory data is indicating slowing growth. Charles Hugh-Smith laments the decline of small business. New residential home sales (pdf) increased in March, and there has been positive momentum for architecture billings. But existing home sales fell unexpectedly. Trucking tonnage increased again, but vehicle miles driven hit another post-crisis low. The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond said manufacturing activity pulled back in its district and Kansas City reported the same in its region (pdf). One study said that small-business owners remained mixed on the state of the economy and their growth outlook. Here's an updated state of the economy.
 Washington: Online Sales Tax 
The Senate votes for an online sales tax, but eBay says it is unfair to some small businesses - and it may be too late for others. A small but growing number of American corporations, operating in businesses as diverse as private prisons, billboards and casinos, are making an aggressive move to reduce - or even eliminate - their federal tax bills. A survey from Sage finds small businesses struggling with the complexity of tax regulations and code. Republicans advance a bill to prepare for another debt-ceiling fight. The sequestration budget cuts cause air travel delays and the furlough of 89,000 Internal Revenue Service employees (but the Justice Department is fine). A Chinese mother sues the Federal Reserve over her shrinking cash (this infographic explains how the central banking system really works). The economy will get a boost in July when the government recalculates gross domestic product. The president celebrates young inventors at a White House science fair, and a Pew study says American teenagers are doing better on science tests than the public realizes. 
 Entrepreneurs: Lessons Learned 
Brian Cauble shares 50 lessons he's learned as an entrepreneur, including: "If you don't figure out your sales, you will fail." Rosie Percy says self-employment is on the rise. Saint Louis University's Center for Entrepreneurship names its first "diamond in the rough" student entrepreneur, and the Western Pennsylvania Small Business Administration names its (reluctant) young entrepreneur of the year. The Wharton Business Plan Competition went to a pair of M.B.A. students who created Zenkars, an online used car dealer that aims to connect wholesale buyers with individual customers, and the grand prize winner of the University of California, Berkeley, Start-up Competition was Resido Medical, which has developed a small wearable device for patients with essential tremor.
 Management: Profit by Quitting 
Joe Taylor Jr. reports on the secrets of century-old businesses. Lisa J. Jackson suggests celebrating when you hit goals and milestones. Greg Digneo argues that quitting may be the most profitable thing you do this year. A UPS Store owner explains how her business works. Jason Fell explains how to be more like Steve Jobs. A new book says nice companies finish first. A Portland rap legend, Cool Nutz, discusses the secrets of his success. A manufacturing chief executive shares the seven skills of a "lean leader." Here are 10 quotes that inspire business leaders, and these 27 successful people reveal the things they can't live without.
 Finance: Shake It 
Greg Kumparak explains what is needed to raise a million bucks. A Kickstarter project aims to raise $155,000 for a cellphone that can be recharged by shaking it, and another company gets $5.9 million to create a "Kickstarter for people." Investors sink $30 million into a 3-D printing company. Bryan Goldberg feels some chief executives like to raise money just for the sake of it. Milton Berle's joke files go up for sale. The 15-year fixed mortgage rate hits a low. American Express Open introduces a tool to help small businesses simplify expense tracking. A financing firm announces an $82 million credit line to finance small businesses. Boston Beer expands its microlending and coaching program. Here is why big corporations are supporting the entrepreneurial ecosystem.
 People: 6,297 Chinese Restaurants 
A National Public Radio report explains how young adults with autism can thrive in high-tech jobs. These are the worst jobs of 2013. Adriana Gardella's business group debates whether employees can be rehabilitated (even if they bite people?). Martin Zabell reports on the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy on small businesses, and Sarah Green says much has been learned about communicating with employees in an emergency. Miranda Marquit writes about ways to protect yourself when you fire someone. A study finds more than two-thirds of small-business owners support increasing the federal minimum wage, and a Staples survey reveals that the boss is probably not the most trusted person in your company. After a bad quarter, I.B.M.'s chief executive urges employees to act faster. This guy has eaten in 6,297 Chinese restaurants in the United States and Canada.
 Going Green: Electric Cars 
Earth Day is celebrated, but the government's investment in electric cars is not doing well - even in the country's top 10 green car markets. The world's "greenest commercial building" opens in Seattle. An energy company introduces a program in Ohio that offers electricity and natural gas to small businesses at a fixed rate. Office Depot reports that 20 percent of small and midsize businesses are greener than last year.
 Around the Country: Luring Companies 
Rick Perry tries to lure companiesfrom Illinois. A national conference aims to help female veterans accelerate the growth of their small businesses and create jobs. Meanwhile, some women are cashing in on the North Dakota oil boom. Las Vegas taxis bilked passengers out of $15 million last year. Many Americans are breathing cleaner air. Catherine Rampell says New York may be more affordable than you think. A guy rides the tallest bike in Los Angeles, and NASA announces its 2012 small-business industry awards.
 Around the World: No Triple Dip 
World steel output ticked up during March, but Markos Kaminis is alarmed by the economic data from overseas. German private sector output declined for the first time since November but Britain escaped a triple-dip recession. Chinese stocks slumped the most in weeks as manufacturing slowed. This is how much food $5 buys around the world. A provider of language tools reports that business English proficiency scores have increased strikingly. Adam Dawood thinks Pakistan may be the next frontier for entrepreneurs: "The Internet industry in Pakistan is at an extremely exciting point, and the outlook for local entrepreneurs and venture capitalists is strong in the mid- to long run." These are five global trading tips for small businesses.
 Marketing: No Tricks 
Kristin Zaslavsky warns that when sending e-mails not to "trick your clients or potential clients." Brian Carroll lists four steps for sending e-mails that 85 percent of business-to-business businesses probably are not taking. This is how to use webinars as an e-marketing tool. Ben Bland has a few thoughts on how to write good proposals for tendered projects. Doug Kessler reveals four truths about his content-marketing clients, including "too many content-marketing clients don't understand their own business." There are eight types of content every business should consider publishing and five branding mistakes that will cripple your business. Vincenzo Ravina shares seven tips for generating leads at a trade show or conference - without attending. Nicole Crozier explains why marketing is your most important system. Shelly Kramer explains how smartphones can maximize sales, and here is what shoppers really want from mobile. This is why baseball is awesome.
 Social Media: Quitting Facebook 
A hacked Twitter post sinks the stock market, but new supercomputers could generate warnings of future impending crashes. Here are 25 social media influencers who should not be ignored. Publishing the right post at the right time is one of Brian Michaelson's four tips to help engage Facebook users. Tina Hamilton explains how a small business can find love on Yelp!, and Harrison Ford refuses to answer questions about "Star Wars." Sarah McLaughlin gives advice for making your blog post interesting regardless of the subject. A couple of Emerson College students use Facebook to raise $500,000 for a Boston Marathon charity. Ronni Ann Hall is trying to free herself from Facebook.
 Technology: Kill the Password 
These five Android apps will lessen the stress of the daily commute. These 26 mobile apps will improve your business and networking. These eight must-have apps will run your small business anywhere, and these are the top five software programs for a small business. The "Microsoft Princess" will make an appearance at a conference in May. (Will she make the "start" button magically reappear?). A study from Carbonite finds most small-business owners are not taking full advantage of the cloud. Google joins a PayPal-backed effort to kill the password. These are the new features of the Samsung Galaxy S4. A cool magnetic putty can absorb objects, and laser sensors can automatically fertilize the crops that need it most. This photo app will make your wife or husband look gorgeous. Contactually releases a new version of its powerful relationship-building application. And you all know General Petersen from I.T., right?
 Tweet of the Week 
@DJRotaryRachel30m: I refuse to celebrate Earth Day until Wind & Fire are recognized.
 The Week's Best Quotes 
 David Wessel shares seven lessonsfor fixing an economy, including: "A financial crisis is about economics, not morality. There's a temptation to preach after so many people make so many mistakes: Avoid the sins that created the crisis. Punish the perpetrators. Pursue the economic rectitude of thrift. In the long run, that's surely right. But in the immediate aftermath of a financial mega-shock, if everyone simultaneously reduces debts, the economy will keep contracting. There's a strong case for encouraging borrowing and spending in the immediate aftermath of a financial crisis and for temporarily putting aside the fear that doing so might lead people to sin more in the future."
 Charles Kane says that the best place to introduce your start-up is either in Silicon Valley or the Boston area: "They remain the hottest centers of entrepreneurship and venture capital, so you'll be in an inherently supportive ecosystem where entrepreneurship is as natural as drinking water."
 This Week's Question: Do you think you understand your own business?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Apple, Gold and Cupcakes
        
This Week in Small Business: Free Lunch?
        
This Week in Small Business: Not Again!
        
This Week In Small Business: Surviving Shark Tank
        
This Week in Small Business: The Next Big Battle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); INTERNET SALES TAX (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); USED CAR DEALERS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUSINESS PLANS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); DEBT CEILING (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) Entrepreneurship; Small Business; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



913 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Europe's Hostels Go Upscale

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Europe&#8217;s hostels go upscale, rethinking the annual pelvic exam, why rent is so high in New York and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Loans borrowed against pensions squeeze retirees. (Business)
        
Europe's hostels go upscale. (Travel)
        
Our feel-good war on breast cancer. (Magazine)
        
When the home seller chooses a mortgage lender. (Real Estate)
        
Internet sales tax too late for some stores. (Business)
        
Why the rent is so high in New York. (Economix)
        
Subaru recalls Foresters over defective floor mats. (Wheels)
        
Dictionaries on the go. (Gadgetwise)
        
Pastasof spring. (Well)
        
Diabetes advice for older people. (The New Old Age)
        
Twitter hoaxsparks fears about impact on markets. (Business)
        
Why do I have gout? (Booming)
        
Rethinking the annual pelvic exam. (Well)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); BREAST CANCER (85%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (85%); DIABETES (52%) Today in Your Money

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



914 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: The Protectionist Non-Surge

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Why not this time? 

 BODY:
Update: The paper was by Eichengreen and Irwin, not O'Rourke - sorry, Doug.
And now for something completely different. OK, at least somewhat different.
I've been remiss about posting class notes for WWS543, Trade Policy; I'll do an omnibus catch-up post soon. But the class goes on; this is the final week. And today I'm talking about protectionism in the Great Recession and after - which is mainly about the surprising absence of any major protectionist surge. 
So why isn't 2008- playing like 1929-, at least on this front?
To the extent that we have a standard answer, it lies in the macroeconomic diagnosis of protectionism last time. Eichengreen and Irwin have showed, convincingly, that the main driver of protectionism in the 1930s was the lack of perceived alternatives to boost employment. Countries that stayed on the gold standard couldn't take any monetary or fiscal actions to reflate, so they turned to tariffs and import controls. 
So were we saved from a repeat by the fact that we're in a world of fiat currencies and floating exchange rates? Not so fast.
You see, outside the euro area countries are free to use monetary policy - but monetary policy isn't very effective, because we're up against the zero lower bound. (You can argue that there's more scope for expansion than central banks have used, but anyway they haven't, so the perceived constraint is there). Countries are also free to use fiscal policy, but ReinhartRogoffBowlesSimpsonRehn have scared them into worrying about deficits instead. Overall, macroeconomic policy has ended up operating within constraints reminiscent of those imposed by the gold standard cult.
So why, exactly, aren't we seeing more protection? Why aren't politicians - even conservative politicians - looking at the situation and saying, hmm, a tariff won't increase the deficit, it won't involve debasing the currency, but it could clearly help create jobs?
One answer might be the "Smoot-Hawley caused the Depression" thing; this isn't true at all, but it might be serving the purpose of a noble lie.
Or maybe it's the structure of trade agreements. The countries that arguably could really, really use some protection right now are inside the European Union, so no go. Countries outside still know that any protection they impose will lead to big problems at the WTO; the United States has to know that a protectionist response would break up the whole world trading system we've spent almost 80 years building.
So here's a thought: maybe the secret of our protectionist non-surge isn't macroeconomics; it's institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); EURO (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); CONSERVATISM (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



915 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Reform and the Lessons of 2012

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Why it&#8217;s easy to imagine a comprehensive reform blowing up in the Republican Party&#8217;s face. 

 BODY:
My Sunday column sounded some skeptical notes about the immigration reform being considered in the Senate, raising the question of whether an America whose native-born working class is facing a slow-burning socieconomic crisis is really in an ideal position to assimilate low-skilled immigrants at an increasing clip. What I didn't say is that these intertwined issues - working class dysfunction and the hard path to assimilation - are part of why the Republican elite's political theory of immigration reform looks so dubious.
That theory, which is particularly popular with the party's biggest donors, looks at the 2012 election, sees an electorate that was less white than ever before and a nominee who performed terribly among Hispanics, and concludes that most of the party's problems can be solved by making a dramatic gesture to persuade Hispanic voters that the G.O.P. doesn't just want them all to self-deport. It isn't an entirely implausible conceit - as Sean Trende writes, the immigration issue does probably represent a kind of "information shortcut" that persuades Latino voters to reject the Republican brand out of hand. But it's radically incomplete, and potentially self-defeating.
Why incomplete? Start with the broader economic context of the 2012 election, as limned by Ron Brownstein in a new piece for National Journal: 
Led by Obama's chief pollster, Joel Benenson, the [Obama] campaign had spent 2011 examining Americans' views on economic security and the American Dream. They concluded that something fundamental had changed. It used to be political gospel that a candidate couldn't risk talking about inequality because such a stance was so easily caricatured as an attack on the rich and because even working-class Americans believed they had an opportunity to be rich someday. But as Benenson explained in a recent interview, "There has been a recalibration of the American mind-set when it comes to economic change."
What his polling found is that middle-class Americans are much more concerned about holding onto what they've got than in pursuing more. The Pew Economic Mobility project, the Allstate/National Journal Heartland Monitor Poll, and other studies have arrived at similar conclusions. When Pew asked Americans in 2011 if they preferred financial stability or moving up the income ladder, 85 percent of respondents chose the safer, surer future."
If that seems like a defensive crouch, it is. ... The beginning of the 21st century was a "lost decade" for the middle class, Harvard economist Lawrence Katz said, but the decline has been under way for decades. In the early 1970s, middle-class households earned 62 percent of the national income; today, they bring in just 45 percent ... The Great Recession exacerbated this decline. Sixty percent of the job losses in those years occurred in middle-income jobs. The recovery, instead of restoring those jobs, has replaced them with low-wage positions ... People aiming to reach the middle class, or to stay there, have ample reason to worry.
Then take a look at two new studies on who actually voted in 2012, and who stayed home:
Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney would have won the presidency if the white and black turnout rates had stayed at their 2004 levels, according to a new analysis of [the] 2012 election.
... Overall turnout declined from 62 percent in 2008 to 58 percent in 2012, [The Brookings Institution's William] Frey reported. The drop-off reduced the overall turnout by up to 5 million votes, despite a slight increase in the number of eligible white voters ... The 2012 drop-off was concentrated among GOP-leaning white voters.
The AP's report is corroborated by Resurgent Republic, a right-of-center polling and research firm, which measured turnout changes from 2008 to 2012 ... the only group that turned out in greater numbers for the GOP were those who earned more than $100,000 per year, according to Resurgent's analysis. That group's turnout rose by 7 percent ... Turnout fell by 3 percent among white women, 6 percent among white men, 2 percent among Protestants, 9 percent among married voters, and 15 percent among GOP-leaning middle class voters who earn between $50,000 and $100,000.
Now maybe these G.O.P.-leaning, non-rich whites were all staying home because they listened to talk radio during the primary season and decided that Romney wasn't sufficiently ideologically pure. But these numbers seem more like rough vindication for the thesis that the Republicans lost in part because anxious middle-income voters in states like Ohio listened to their "you didn't build that!" messaging (and, yes, to Democratic attacks on Romney's corporate raider past) and didn't hear much of anything that actually addressed their anxieties. A lot of these voters were too conservative to cast a ballot for Obama - but given a choice between liberal clientalization and conservative neglect, they chose none of the above.
So you have an economic context in which upward mobility looks more difficult and optimism more unwarranted, and a political context in which anxious white voters are already feeling alienated from the G.O.P.'s economic message (or lack thereof). Against this background, it's almost painfully easy to see how a sweeping immigration reform blows up in the Republican Party's face. First, it persuades downscale, culturally-conservative whites that the party really, really doesn't have their interests and values at heart. Second, it does win the G.O.P. a second look from some Hispanic voters - but because racial wealth gaps make those voters even more economically anxious than whites with similar incomes, they don't see any reason to actually start voting for a party that doesn't have an economic agenda beyond austerity and entitlement reform. Third, it gradually adds more low-skilled immigrants to the voting rolls at a time when trends in the economyand the culture make it harder for them to rise into the middle class - and absent such upward mobility, these voters, too, prove less-than-eager to embrace the party of free markets, limited government and American exceptionalism.
Is there an alternative scenario where immigration reform turns out to be a net positive for Republicans instead? Sure - but only if such a reform somehow complemented a new conservative economic agenda rather than posing a substitute for one. My doubts about the design of the current bill notwithstanding, I can imagine an immigration overhaul finding a place in a broader right-of-center vision that's geared toward reassuring blue-collar whites, enticing middle-income Hispanics, and boosting new immigrants into the middle class.
But that vision doesn't exist at the moment, and it isn't likely to emerge in a world where the Congressional G.O.P. can't even manage to take baby steps toward an Obamacare alternative. And so long as that's the case, the kind of immigration reform being contemplated is likely to be worse for the G.O.P. politically than a similar bill would have been under George W. Bush. For all his faults, Bush understood that his party couldn't win over Hispanics - or any economically-vulnerable constituency - without substantive as well as symbolic overtures. Right now, his successors seemed poised to learn that lesson the hard way.

        
George W. Bush in Hindsight
        
In Search of Republican Reformers
        
Immigration and Republican Self-Interest
        
Culture, Class and the Decline of Marriage
        
The Republican Party's "Donorism" Problem

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (69%) Bush, George W; Immigration and Emigration; Ohio; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Romney, Mitt; United States

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%) Bush, George W; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) Ohio; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



916 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Billions of Cellphones Polluting the World

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: As people in emerging economies adopt more mobile technology, global metal needs will be three to nine times larger than all the metals currently used in the world. 

 BODY:
THE HAGUE - Once considered a status symbol, cellphones have become ubiquitous.There are now 6.8 billion mobile subscriptions worldwide, 800 million more than at the end of 2011. 
But mobile technology poses serious environmental challenges, both because of the raw materials needed to produce the hardware and the pollution associated with disposal.
"As populations in emerging economies adopt similar technologies and lifestyles to those currently used in OECD countries, global metal needs will be three to nine times larger than all the metals currently used in the world," according to Achim Steiner, executive director at the United National Environmental Programme.
The United Nations agency responsible for the environment warned that the rapid growth in the demand for metals requires major rethinking of current recycling models. The announcement came during a U.N.-sponsored conference in Berlin last week.
"A far more sophisticated approach is urgently needed to address the challenges of recycling complex products, which contain a broad variety of interlinked metals and materials," said Mr. Steiner.
The recycling of electronic devices - and the reuse of the constituent metals - is notoriously difficult, partly because of the design of the technology contained in consumer devices. But recycling experts say that less energy is needed to recycle and reuse metals from consumer electronics than to mine for new metals (not to mention the human toll such mining has taken).
Ian Urbina reported last year on the difficulty of recycling the many cathode-ray tube monitors that have been replaced by new LED flat screens. Each of the old monitors contains up to eight pounds of lead, which can harm the environment if not disposed of correctly.
Over five years, Ian reported, the electronic waste stream in the United States has more than doubled.
Samsung said this week that some of its phones might contain new tin mined at Bangka Island in Indonesia, according to The Guardian. The island was the subject of an investigation last year by The Guardian and Friends of the Earth for child labor and unregulated and environmentally harmful mining practices.
Apple, the maker of the iPhone, and Samsung's chief competitor on the Smartphone market, came under fire last year after quietly withdrawing from EPEAT, a registry of environmentally friendly electronics. The company rejoined the registry after consumer protests.
Here in Europe, the European Parliament approved stricter guidelines for electronic waste last year. By 2016 member countries must collect 45 tons of electronic waste for 100 tons of electronics sold in the previous three years. Depending on the countries' commitments, the target for the electronic waste recuperation goes up to 65 or 85 percent by 2019, according to the new Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (or WEEE) guidelines.
Paradoxically, clean energy technology, which is also booming, has created a spike in demand for metal and the associated disposal problems.
"Product designers need to ensure that materials such as rare-earth metals in products ranging from solar panels and wind turbine magnets to mobile phones can still be recovered easily when they reach the end of their life," said Mr. Steiner of the UNEP.
Do you worry about electronic waste you generate? If so, what do you do to limit it? Join the conversation.

        
What Will You Do With All That Gift Wrap?
        
Should Common Plastics Be Labeled Toxic?
        
Getting That Extra Mile Out of Plastic
        
Treating a Fabled Chinese River Like a Sewer
        
Hello? Pyongyang? Can You Hear Me Now?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); COMPUTER MONITORS (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (66%); TIN MINING (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%) consumer electronics; electronic waste; mobile telephones; recycling; United Nations Environmental Programme; Cellular Telephones; Rare Earths; Waste Materials and Disposal; Sustainability

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (76%) EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



917 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Apple and the Debt Market

BYLINE: AGNES T. CRANE


HIGHLIGHT: With an expanded budget for dividends and stock buybacks, Apple could be on track to borrow nearly $20 billion a year, putting the company in the same issuance ballpark as huge global banks. 

 BODY:
Apple may need to make its i.o.u.'s as desirable as iPhones. 
Right now, money managers are gaga for the company's bonds even before they have made their market debut. But the scale of issuance that could come from Apple is on a par with huge borrowers like banks. To be sustainable, that would call for some of Apple's magic. 
Debt from cash-rich American technology companies used to be exceedingly rare. But low interest rates have changed that. Borrowing cheaply is a better financial bet than repatriating cash earned overseas and paying tax on it. Microsoft tested the waters in 2009 and has raised nearly $15 billion since then, according to Thomson Reuters data.
But Apple could be looking to borrow more than that every year. The company recently expanded its budget for dividends and stock buybacks to $100 billion by the end of 2015. Assuming $45 billion of its cash pile is onshore - a figure consistent with what the company has said - and ignoring new inflows, that means borrowing $55 billion in less than three years, according to the research firm CreditSights, or nearly $20 billion a year.
That would put Apple in the same issuance ballpark as large banks like Bank of America and Citigroup and other big financial firms. And many of those are mostly refinancing old debt. The iPhone maker would be asking more of investors since it would be looking for new money each time.
Most companies would have to pay lenders a premium to borrow so much. Apple is different, and not just because fixed-income fund managers may want to feel like the cool kids for once. A company with lots of cash, even if it is trapped overseas, is a godsend for those who simply do not want to worry about default. Apple has garnered a AA-plus rating from Standard & Poor's, one notch down from AAA. Microsoft, a rare top-rated company, will pay less than 2.5 percent interest on the $1 billion of 10-year bonds it sold on Thursday.
If its bonds keep on marching to market, however, Apple's novelty as a borrower will wear off and the company will need to keep investors engaged. Innovation could help. Just as the Apple visionary Steven P. Jobs seemingly knew what people wanted before they did, the company might be able to use its brand and perhaps innovative structures to create a category of bonds investors suddenly could not do without. If Apple manages it right, i.o.u.'s could be the next big thing.
 Agnes T. Crane is a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. 

        
Comparing the Valuations Behind Amazon and Apple Shares
        
Einhorn Supports Apple's Big Payouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Apple Inc; Credit and Debt; Breakingviews; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Technology

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



918 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Freedom for California's Indians

BYLINE: STACEY L. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: The surprising story of bondage and freedom for California&#8217;s Native Americans. 

 BODY:
On April 27, 1863, nearly five months after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, California abolished its system of forced apprenticeship for American Indians. Under the apprenticeship provisions of the state's Act for the Government and Protection of Indians, several thousand California Indians, mostly children, had suffered kidnapping, sale and involuntary servitude for over a decade. 
Newly elected California Republicans, eager to bring California in line with the national march toward emancipation, agitated for two years in the early 1860s to repeal Indian apprenticeship. And yet those Republicans' limited vision of Indian freedom - one in which Indians would be free to reap the fruits of their labor, but not free from the duty to labor altogether - made for an incomplete Indian Emancipation Proclamation. Although California was distant from the battlefields of the Civil War, the state endured its own struggle over freedom that paralleled that of the North and the South.
The Republican campaign to abolish Indian servitude ran up against nearly a century of coerced Indian labor in California. Under Spanish and Mexican rule, thousands of California Indians worked on missions and ranches, bound to their employment through a combination of economic necessity, captivity, physical compulsion and debt. 
With the United States' conquest of California in 1847, the discovery of gold in 1848 and the formation of a state government in 1849, new American lawmakers expanded and formalized Indian servitude to meet growing demands for labor. The 1850 Act for the Government and Protection of Indians authorized whites to hold Indian children as wards until they reached adulthood. Indian adults convicted of vagrancy or other crimes could be forced to work for whites who paid their bail. 
Skyrocketing demand for farmworkers and domestic servants, combined with violence between Indians and invading whites in the northwestern part of the state, left Democrats in war-torn counties clamoring for the expansion of the 1850 Indian act. A "general system of peonage or apprenticeship" was the only way to quell Indian wars, one Democrat argued. A stint of involuntary labor would civilize Indians, establish them in "permanent and comfortable homes," and provide white settlers with "profitable and convenient servants." In 1860, Democrats proposed new amendments to the Act for the Government and Protection of Indians that allowed whites to bind Indian children as apprentices until they reached their mid-20s. Indian adults accused of being vagrants without steady employment, or taken as captives of war, could be apprenticed for 10-year terms. The amendments passed with little debate.
As the nation hurtled toward a war over slavery, Californians watched as their own state became a battleground over the future of human bondage. Apprenticeship laws aimed at "civilizing" the state's Indians encouraged a robust and horrific slave trade in the northwestern counties. Frontier whites eagerly paid from $50 to $100 for Indian children to apprentice. Groups of kidnappers, dubbed "baby hunters" in the California press, supplied this market by attacking isolated Indian villages and snatching up children in the chaos of battle. Some assailants murdered Indian parents who refused to give up their children. 
Once deposited in white homes, captive apprentices often suffered abuse and neglect. The death of Rosa, a 10-year-old apprentice from either the Yuki or Pomo tribes, provides a grim case in point. Just two weeks before the repeal of Indian apprenticeship, the Mendocino County coroner found the dead girl "nearly naked, lying in a box out of doors" next to the home of her mistress, a Mrs. Bassett of Ukiah. Neighbors testified that the child was sick and restless and that Basset shut her out of the house in the middle of a raging snowstorm. Huge bruises on Rosa's abdomen suggested that Bassett had mercilessly beaten the ill child before tossing her out into the blizzard. Mendocino officials never brought charges in the case.
The horrors of kidnapping and apprenticeship filled the state's newspapers just as antislavery California Republicans swept into power in 1861-2. Republicans assailed the apprentice system and blamed Democrats for the "abominable system of Indian apprenticeship, which has been used as a means of introducing actual slavery into our free State." George Hanson, an Illinois Republican whose close relationship with Abraham Lincoln earned him an appointment as Northern California's superintendent of Indian affairs, vowed to eliminate the state's "unholy traffic in human blood and souls." He tracked down and prosecuted kidnappers in the northwestern counties (with mixed success) and petitioned the State Legislature to abolish the apprenticeship system.
In 1862, Republican legislators proposed two new measures to overturn the 1860 apprenticeship amendments. Democrats blocked these bills and insisted that apprenticeship "embodied one of the most important measures" for Indians' "improvement and civilization." Indian servitude lived on.
By the time the legislature met again in the spring of 1863, however, all signs pointed to the destruction of the apprenticeship system. Republicans won firm majorities in both houses of the State Legislature, and in January California became the first state to endorse Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. Republicans again proposed to repeal the apprenticeship amendments, and this time they achieved their goal with no debate or dissent. Involuntary labor for American Indians died quietly.
Or did it? Republicans had eliminated all the 1860 amendments authorizing the forced apprenticeship of American Indians. But they had left intact sections of the original 1850 act that mandated the forcible binding out of Indian convicts and vagrants. Moreover, repeal only prevented future apprenticeships; Republican legislation did not liberate Indians already legally apprenticed. After repeal, as many as 6,000 Indian children remained servants in white homes.
The incomplete nature of Indian emancipation in California reflected Republicans' own ambivalence toward Indian freedom. Most Republicans opposed the kidnapping and enslavement of Indians. They believed that Indians, like former African-American slaves, should be entitled to reap the economic rewards of their own work. On the other hand, they asserted that the key to "civilizing" Indians was to force them to participate in the California labor market. They could not be free to support themselves through traditional mobile hunting and gathering practices that removed their labor from white supervision and tied up valuable natural resources. Such a lifestyle was, in Republicans' minds, little more than idle vagrancy. Just as their Republican colleagues on the East Coast argued that ex-slaves should be schooled to labor by being bound to plantation wage work through long-term contracts, California Republicans began to advocate compulsory labor as the only way to cure Indian vagrancy.
The Republican vision for Indian freedom quickly took shape after the Civil War. Republican appointees who oversaw California's Indian reservations compelled all able-bodied Indians to work on the reservation farms. Those who refused, or who pursued native food-gathering practices, forfeited the meager federal rations allotted to reservation Indians. By 1867, one Republican agent declared that "the hoe and the broadaxe will sooner civilize and Christianize than the spelling book and the Bible." He advocated forcing Indians to work until they had been "humanized by systematic labor." These policies persisted long after the war. At Round Valley Reservation, one critic observed in 1874 that "compulsion is used to keep the Indians and to drive them to work." Indian workers received no payment for "labor and no opportunity to accumulate individual property."
The ambiguous postwar liberty of California Indians reveals that the Civil War was a transcontinental conflict that reached west to the Pacific. The freedoms won in wartime, and the unfulfilled promises of emancipation, encompassed not only black and white, free and slave, but also American Indian peoples who suffered from distinctly Western systems of unfree labor. The Civil War and Reconstruction are best understood as truly national struggles over the meaning and limits of freedom, north, south and west.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: "An Act for the Government and Protection of Indians, April 22, 1850"; Michael Magliari, "Free Soil, Unfree Labor," Pacific Historical Review 73 (August 2004); "Minority Report of the Special Joint Committee on the Mendocino War," in Appendix to the Journals of the California Senate (1860); "An Act Amendatory of an Act entitled 'An Act for the Government and Protection of Indians,' April 16, 1860"; Mendocino Herald, April 10, 1863; George Hanson to William P. Dole, July 15, 1861, Office of Indian Affairs, Letters Received; Sacramento Union, May 5 - 12, 1862; Brendan C. Lindsay, "Murder State: California's Native American Genocide, 1846 - 1873"; Elijah Steele to William P. Dole, Oct. 30, 1863, Office of Indian Affairs, Letters Received; Report of the Commissioner for Indian Affairs, 1867; Alta California, June 8, 1874. 
 Stacey L. Smith is an assistant professor of history at Oregon State University and author of the forthcoming book "Freedom's Frontier: California and the Struggle over Unfree Labor, Emancipation, and Reconstruction." Photo by Wendy Madar. 

        
Bad Blood in the Bald Hills
        
A Soldier in the West
        
The Choctaw Confederates
        
Rape and Justice in the Civil War
        
The Lieber Codes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); SLAVERY (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (69%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); FARM LABOR (51%) California; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Native Americans; Republican Party; Slavery; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) California

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013



919 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: How a Fiat-Chrysler Merger Could Work

BYLINE: ROB COX


HIGHLIGHT: Sergio Marchionne has long envisioned a fully integrated Fiat-Chrysler as the first step in a continuing consolidation designed to squeeze out the excess capacity that plagues the car industry, particularly in Fiat&#8217;s home market. 

 BODY:
It took about a generation before Italian immigrants to the United States adopted the ways of their new home and shook off those of the old country. Italy's premier industrial enterprise may do it in a matter of years. A spat over Fiat's plans to fully acquire Chrysler, Detroit's No. 3 car maker, could hasten the process. 
Sergio Marchionne, Fiat chief executive and son of Italian migrants to Canada, is negotiating the purchase of the remaining 41.5 percent in Chrysler that is owned by a United Automobile Workers union health care trust. The two sides, who are some $3 billion apart on price, aired their disagreements about the negotiating process in a court hearing last week.
Despite the differences on valuation, there's no doubt about the outcome. Mr. Marchionne has long envisioned a fully integrated Fiat-Chrysler as the first step in a continuing consolidation designed to squeeze out the excess capacity that plagues the car industry, particularly in Fiat's home market.
Mr. Marchionne has barely hidden his concerns about Italy, which just barely managed over the weekend to form a new government. The economy has been stalled for a decade. Rigid labor rules stifle entrepreneurship and competition. Outside investment has dwindled and the stock market is a pale shade even of its former byzantine self.
The more Fiat is forced to pay for Chrysler, the more fresh equity it will need to raise to avoid a credit downgrade. One way to make that easier could be for Mr. Marchionne to structure the deal in two stages. First Fiat would buy Chrysler, then the combined company would offer new shares. This would look a bit like an initial public offering for the enlarged group, and a bit like a rights issue for existing Fiat shareholders.
New York offers a far bigger pool of investor capital than Milan. As with the merger of Fiat Industrial with CNH Global announced last year, that would give Mr. Marchionne a reason to shift the merged entity's domicile and move its listing to the United States. An eventual deal on the value of the Chrysler stake could buttress the logic. At the mid-point of the two parties' marks Chrysler's equity, at $7.25 billion, would be more valuable than Fiat's market cap of $6.9 billion. 
Once the arguments about the Detroit company's value are over, Fiat could be on the fast track toward U.S. citizenship.
 Rob Cox is editor of Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. 

        
Valuing Chrysler Too Cheaply
        
Caesars Blinds Market With Science

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (87%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (87%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); DIVESTITURES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (54%) Automobiles; Chrysler Group LLC; Fiat SpA; Initial Public Offerings; Marchionne, Sergio; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United Automobile Workers; Fiat SpA|FIATY|other-OTC; Autos; Breakingviews; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FIAT SPA (92%); FIAT INDUSTRIAL SPA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler Group LLC; Fiat SpA; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); FI (BIT) (53%) Fiat SpA; FIATY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (91%) Marchionne, Sergio

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



920 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Russian Bank Sells Shares in $3.3 Billion Offering

BYLINE: ANDREW KRAMER


HIGHLIGHT: VTB, Russia&#8217;s second-largest bank, said that it had found buyers for all the shares it intended to place in a $3.3 billion secondary stock offering. 

 BODY:
MOSCOW - VTB, Russia's second-largest bank, announced on Monday that it had found buyers for all the shares it intended to place in a $3.3 billion secondary stock offering. 
The quick deal showed that investor interest was still running high in the Russian banking sector. The country is the world's biggest oil producer, and though the economy has slowed this year, trickle-down wealth from commodity sales still makes Russian banking stocks alluring.
Sberbank, the state retail bank and the largest bank in Russia, is the most common choice for investors. VTB, also majority-owned by the state, is a distant second as measured by the volume of loans it provides.
VTB shares have also plummeted since their initial public offering in 2007, just before the financial crisis. During the crisis, the bank required the largest bailout in Russian history.
The sale Monday, however, suggested the price may have fallen far enough to make the bank's shares attractive, given the overall prospects for the banking market in Russia.
"It shows that everything has a price," said Bob Kommers, a banking analyst at Deutsche Bank in Moscow. "They found a price they could sell it to the market."
The sovereign wealth funds of Norway, Qatar and Azerbaijan were among the investors that agreed to buy shares even before the placement came onto the market. The other investors were not disclosed.
VTB is issuing the shares to raise capital and has pledged to use the money to invest in expanding its domestic business.
The bank issued the new stock with an option for the existing shareholders, including the Russian state, to buy them at a discount of about 10 percent to their market price. In the deal announced Monday, the Russian government sold its options, proportional to its overall stake in the bank of 75 percent, to the sovereign wealth funds and other investors.
The investor group also announced a bid for the remaining options held by minority shareholders before the deal closes on May 17, meaning it is willing to buy the entire issue of new stock.
The new shares will trade on Russia's Micex stock exchange this year. That is in keeping with President Vladimir V. Putin's template for privatizing stakes in state-owned companies. A fierce critic of the 1990s privatizations in rigged auctions, Mr. Putin has said the government would earn more in share sales on public stock exchanges.
But he has said that state companies should float on Russia's own Micex exchange, rather than in London or New York, to support the domestic financial industry.
Investors had shied away from VTB because its earnings often seemed to rely on one-time profits, like gains from foreign exchange rate movements or trading windfalls, and not from its core banking business, Mr. Kommers, the banking analyst, said. VTB issues 17 percent of the loans in Russia compared with 33 percent for Sberbank.
With news that sovereign wealth funds, which tend to hold stock for long periods, were buying the new issue, VTB shares rose 3.8 percent on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%) I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); SBER (RTS) (57%); SBER (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



921 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2674 words

HEADLINE: Obama Hails 150th Year of Academy of Sciences

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama cheers on the National Academy of Sciences in its 150th year. 

 BODY:
[Video: Watch on Youtube.]
President Obama helped the National Academy of Sciences celebrate its 150th year of service to the country by giving a speech at the group's annual meeting today. There were some pretty nice laugh lines, including: 
[P]art of what's made the Academy so effective is that all the scientists elected to your elite ranks are volunteers - which is fortunate because we have no money anyway.
There was a subtle dig at lawmakers for whom political stances matter more than data: 
[M]ore important than any single study or report, the members of this institution embody what is so necessary for us to continue our scientific advance and to maintain our cutting-edge, and that's restless curiosity and boundless hope, but also a fidelity to facts and truth, and a willingness to follow where the evidence leads.... 
And, by the way, we do have colleagues in Congress who believe in science and believe in evidence. 
But the brunt of the speech, appropriately, was on the relationship of scientific inquiry and an inventive culture to societal and economic progress. Setting up a nod to last week's White House Science Fair, the president said:
We don't want our kids just to be consumers of the amazing things that science generates; we want them to be producers as well.... [W]e've got to make sure that we're supporting that next generation of dreamers and risk-takers.
I'm not sure our current fixation on educational testing and standards will create that kind of culture in students, but I know what can. His line about building a generation focused on creating more than consuming echoed points he made in 2009.
The core of the speech (from the White House transcript) is below: 
One hundred and fifty years ago, the nation, as all of you know, was in the midst of the Civil War, and the Union had recently suffered a devastating defeat at Fredericksburg. The road ahead seemed long and uncertain. Confederate advances in weapons technology cast a dark shadow on the Union.
The previous spring, in the waters outside of Hampton Roads, the ironclad Confederate battleship Virginia had sunk two wooden Union ships and advanced on a third, and this endangered the Union blockade of Virginia and threatening Union forces along the Potomac River. And then, overnight, the USS Monitor, an ironclad herself, arrived and fought the Virginia to a draw in the world's first battle between iron-sided ships.
There was no victor, but the era of ironclad warfare had begun. And it brought unexpected challenges for President Lincoln and his Navy as they expanded this fleet in early 1863, because aboard their new iron-side battleships, sailors found that the iron siding made the ships' compasses unpredictable, so it skewed navigation, and they were bumping into things and going the wrong way. (Laughter) So the basic physics of magnetism undermined the usefulness of the ironclad vessels, even as the Confederates were stocking up on them. 
And that's where your predecessors came in. Because in March of 1983 - 1863, rather - President Lincoln and Congress established the National Academy of Sciences as an independent and nonprofit institution charged with the mission to provide the government with the scientific advice that it needed. And this was advice that was particularly useful in the thick of battle. 
The National Academy soon counted the nation's top scientists as members. They quickly got to work. By the next year, they were inspecting the Union's ironclads and installing an array of bar magnets around the compasses to correct their navigation. So right off the bat, you guys were really useful. (Laughter.) In fact, it's fair to say we might not be here had you not - (laughter) - certainly I would not be here. (Laughter and applause.)
Now, political leaders have long recognized the connection between technology and warfare throughout our human history. Sadly, this is an element of the human condition. We take our wars very seriously and we're always looking for new ways to engage in a war. But President Lincoln founded the Academy with a mandate that went far beyond the science and technology of war. Even as the nation was at war with itself, President Lincoln had the wisdom to look forward, and he recognized that finding a way to harness the highest caliber scientific advice for the government would serve a whole range of long-term goals for the nation. 
It was the same foresight that led him to establish land-grant colleges and finish the Transcontinental Railroad - the idea that the essence of America is this hunger to innovate, this restlessness, this quest for the next big thing. And although much of this innovation would be generated by the powers of our free market, the investments and the convening power of the federal government could accelerate discovery in a way that would continually push the nation forward. 
That's our inheritance, and now the task falls to us. We, too, face significant challenges - obviously not of the magnitude that President Lincoln faced, but we've got severe economic and security and environmental challenges. And what we know from our past is that the investments we make today are bound to pay off many times over in the years to come. 
So we will continue to pursue advances in science and engineering, in infrastructure and innovation, in education and environmental protection - especially science-based initiatives to help us minimize and adapt to global threats like climate change.
And I'm confident we'll meet that task because we've got you - brilliant and committed scientists to help us guide the way. And part of what's made the Academy so effective is that all the scientists elected to your elite ranks are volunteers - which is fortunate because we have no money anyway. (Laughter.) For 150 years, you've strived to answer big questions, solve tough problems, not for yourselves but for the benefit of the nation. And that legacy has endured from the Academy's founding days. And when you look at our history, you've stepped up at times of enormous need and, in some cases, great peril. 
When Woodrow Wilson needed help understanding the science of military preparedness, he asked the Academy's eminent scientists to lay it out for him. When George W. Bush, more recently, wanted to study the long-term health effects of traumatic brain injuries suffered by soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan, he set your scholars to the task. Today, my administration relies on your expertise to answer critical questions like: How do we set our priorities for research? How can we get the most out of the nanotechnology revolution? What are the underlying causes of gun violence?
And more important than any single study or report, the members of this institution embody what is so necessary for us to continue our scientific advance and to maintain our cutting-edge, and that's restless curiosity and boundless hope, but also a fidelity to facts and truth, and a willingness to follow where the evidence leads. 
And I'd like to acknowledge the other organizations that have been obviously very important in this whole process - the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine - all who've contributed similar leadership in maintaining the tradition, upholding the highest standard of science. 
And, by the way, we do have colleagues in Congress who believe in science and believe in evidence. One of them is here, Congress Rush Holt. We're very grateful to him for his outstanding work. (Applause.) And I want to thank many of the members of my administration, as well as PCAST, my - I always forget what exactly it stands for but - (laughter) - it's my smart science people - (laughter) - who have contributed enormously to the work that we're doing on a whole range of issues, from energy to advanced manufacturing, have really been extraordinary. I want to thank the members of my administration who are here as well who all are invested in making sure that we keep American science the best in the world. 
Now, the good news is America remains a world leader in patents and scientific discovery. Our university system is the crown jewel of our economy as well as our civilization. And that's what's allowing us to continually replenish our stock of people who are willing to dream big dreams and reach higher than anybody else. 
And what I want to communicate to all of you is, is that as long as I'm President, we're going to continue to be committed to investing in the promising ideas that are generated from you and your institutions, because they lead to innovative products, they help boost our economy, but also because that's who we are. I'm committed to it because that's what makes us special and ultimately what makes life worth living. 
And that's why we're pursuing "grand challenges" like making solar energy as cheap as coal, and building electric vehicles as affordable as the ones that run on gas. And earlier this month, I unveiled the BRAIN initiative, which will give scientists the tools that they need to get a dynamic picture of the brain in action, and better understand how we think and learn and remember. 
Today, all around the country, scientists like you are developing therapies to regenerate damaged organs, creating new devices to enable brain-controlled prosthetic limbs, and sending sophisticated robots into space to search for signs of past life on Mars. That sense of wonder and that sense of discovery, it has practical application but it also nurtures what I believe is best in us. 
And right now, we're on the brink of amazing breakthroughs that have the chance, the potential to change life for the better - which is why we can't afford to gut these investments in science and technology. Unfortunately, that's what we're facing right now. Because of the across-the-board cuts that Congress put in place - the sequester, as it's known in Washington-speak - it's hitting our scientific research. Instead of racing ahead on the next cutting-edge discovery, our scientists are left wondering if they'll get to start any new projects, any new research projects at all over the next few years, which means that we could lose a year, two years of scientific research as a practical matter because of misguided priorities here in this town. 
With the pace of technological innovation today, we can't afford to stand still for a year or two years or three years. We've got to seize every opportunity we have to stay ahead. And we can't let other countries win the race for ideas and technology of the future. And I say that, by the way, not out of just any nationalistic pride - although, obviously, that's part of it - but it's also because nobody does it better than we do when it's adequately funded, when it's adequately supported. And what we produce here ends up having benefits worldwide. We should be reaching for a level of private and public research and development investment that we haven't seen since the height of the Space Race. That's my goal.
And it's not just resources. I mean, one of the things that I've tried to do over these last four years and will continue to do over the next four years is to make sure that we are promoting the integrity of our scientific process; that not just in the physical and life sciences, but also in fields like psychology and anthropology and economics and political science - all of which are sciences because scholars develop and test hypotheses and subject them to peer review - but in all the sciences, we've got to make sure that we are supporting the idea that they're not subject to politics, that they're not skewed by an agenda, that, as I said before, we make sure that we go where the evidence leads us. And that's why we've got to keep investing in these sciences. 
And what's true of all sciences is that in order for us to maintain our edge, we've got to protect our rigorous peer review system and ensure that we only fund proposals that promise the biggest bang for taxpayer dollars. And I will keep working to make sure that our scientific research does not fall victim to political maneuvers or agendas that in some ways would impact on the integrity of the scientific process. That's what's going to maintain our standards of scientific excellence for years to come.
That's why, by the way, one of the things that I've focused on as President is an all-hands-on-deck approach to the sciences, as well as technology and engineering and math. And that's why we're spending a lot of time focused on the next generation. With the help of John Holdren and everybody who's working with my administration, we want to make sure that we are exciting young people around math and science and technology and computer science. We don't want our kids just to be consumers of the amazing things that science generates; we want them to be producers as well. And we want to make sure that those who historically have not participated in the sciences as robustly - girls, members of minority groups here in this country - that they are encouraged as well.
We've got to make sure that we're training great calculus and biology teachers, and encouraging students to keep up with their physics and chemistry classes. That includes Malia and Sasha. (Laughter.) It means teaching proper research methods and encouraging young people to challenge accepted knowledge. It means expanding and maintaining critical investments in biomedical research and helping innovators turn their discoveries into new businesses and products. And it means maintaining that spirit of discovery. 
Last week, I got a chance to do one of my favorite things as President and that is - we started these White House Science Fairs. And these kids are remarkable. I mean, I know you guys were smart when you were their age, but - (laughter) - I might give them the edge. (Laughter.) I mean, you had young people who were converting algae into sustainable biofuels - that was one of my favorites because the young lady had - she kept the algae under her bed - and she had a whole lab, which meant that she had really supportive parents. (Laughter.) I pictured it bubbling out and starting to creep into the hallways. (Laughter.) 
You had young people who were purifying water with bicycle-power-generated batteries. You had young people who had already devised faster and cheaper tests for cancer. These are 15, 16-year-olds. 
They were all dreaming to grow up and be just like you - maybe with a little less gray hair - (laughter) - but they shared your passion. They shared that excitement. And what was interesting was not only did they share that sense of wonder and discovery, but they also shared this fundamental optimism that if you figured this stuff out, people's lives would be better; that there were no inherent barriers to us solving the big problems that we face as long as we were diligent and focused and observant and curious. 
And we've got to make sure that we're supporting that next generation of dreamers and risk-takers - because if we are, things will be good. They leave me with extraordinary optimism. They leave me hopeful. They put a smile on my face. And I'm absolutely convinced that if this Academy and the successors who become members of this Academy are there at the center and the heart of our public debate, that we'll be able to continue to use the innovation that powers our economy and improves our health, protects our environment and security, that makes us the envy of the world. 
So I want to thank you on behalf of the American people. And I want to make sure that you know that you've got a strong supporter in the White House. 

        
More On a Quest for Common Ground on Climate Change
        
Pipelines, Pulitzers and Independent Online Journalism
        
Survey Finds Most Republicans Seek Action on Climate Change
        
A Closer Look at Obama's Plan to Pay for Energy Research With Drilling Fees
        
With a Big If, Science Panel Finds Deep Cuts Possible in Auto Emissions and Oil Use

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (84%); MILITARY VESSELS (84%); TRANSCRIPTS (79%); POLITICS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CIVIL WAR (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%) National Academy of Sciences; Obama, Barack; politics; science; Space

ORGANIZATION: National Academy of Sciences; Obama, Barack

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



922 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: 100 Years Ago, Mayor Had a Ready Trigger Finger

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: Mayor John Purroy Mitchel, elected in 1913, carried a revolver and drew it in defense on some occasions. He also dropped it on occasion. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign for stricter gun regulation might have been, well, gun shy about recruiting one of his predecessors, John Purroy Mitchel.
After all, Mitchel not only packed a pistol himself, he brandished it in front of City Hall when he was fired upon by a crazed 71-year-old man a century ago.
Two months after that incident, as Mitchel was returning to his Riverside Drive home from target practice upstate, his gun dislodged from its holster, struck the sidewalk with a thud and accidentally discharged, wounding one of his shooting partners - a prominent real estate developer and former Brooklyn state senator. 
Mitchel, who was elected in 1913 at the age of 34, said he had carried a gun since succeeding Mayor William F. Gaynor, who was shot by a disgruntled former city employee in 1910. Gaynor died three years later of a heart attack, still suffering from the lingering effects of the wound.
Carrying concealed weapons without a permit had been banned in 1911 under New York State's Sullivan Act. Within a few years, about 8,000 New Yorkers had carry permits, including Mitchel, who paid $1 for a permit issued by the Police Department. 
On April 17, 1914, he and several other officials entered a Police Department car in front of City Hall to go to lunch downtown, when a man identified as Michael P. Mahoney, an unemployed Irish immigrant, fired a bullet that missed the mayor, but wounded the city's corporation counsel in the cheek.
"Mayor Mitchel himself, leaping up in the automobile, drew a revolver," The New York Times reported. Mahoney was quickly wrestled to the ground by the police commissioner.
What was originally suspected as an anarchist plot turned out to be the act of a former blacksmith and carpenter who was recovering (and suing) after being hit by a falling brick from two floors up.
"The experience of the last administration teaches us that there are always a few crazy people in every community and no one can foretell what they will do," Mitchel explained.
Asked about his actions, Mitchel said, "Certainly I drew a gun, for if there was another shot fired, I intended to be first."
Mitchel believed his marksmanship had saved his life on an earlier trip to South America after he discovered that some of the porters employed by his party were ex-convicts. He slept with a revolver in his robe and took target practice daily to intimidate them.
In the West Indies, according to an article in The Century Magazine, Mitchel learned a lesson in crowd control during "an adventure with a tribe of aboriginal Indians, hostile to the diamond mines which his firm represented":
"One day they surrounded him and his guide. The chief's feathered headdress outlined against a large tree-trunk. Mitchel shot it, scattering feathers and tribe. This was brisker than parley and simpler than diplomacy. Doubtless it was more effective than either with frightened savages. And it showed Mitchel a quick method of handling a crowd."
Mitchel was a staunch advocate for military preparedness before the United States entered World War I and trained upstate with other prospective officers. According to one account, he shot 24 out of 25 on the rifle range. He also created a civilian defense force whose 22,000 volunteers took revolver training so they could supplement the police force in case of an emergency.
But while he was hailed as a champion of progressive government, his experience with weapons was mixed, as was the experience of his father, James Mitchel. 
 Michael Miscione, Manhattan's borough historian, recalled that James Mitchel, a captain in the Confederate army, was wounded four times. "You'd think John would have developed distaste for guns," Mr. Miscione said.
In June 1914, former State Sen. William H. Reynolds, a developer with interests in Brooklyn, Queens and Long Island, was shot in the thigh when Mayor Mitchel's gun fell to the sidewalk, snapping the safety lock and causing it to fire. The bullet exited Reynolds's finger.
The incident was hushed up and the police learned about it only after it was reported in The Times.
After his defeat for re-election in 1917, Mitchel joined the military as an air cadet. 
He died the following July during a training exercise when he fell from a plane flying 500 feet over Louisiana, apparently because he had failed to buckle his seat belt.

        
Plane Debris Near Ground Zero Is Identified as Part of a Wing Flap
        
George Jones's New York
        
Half a Fare, Half a Seat
        
Democratic Candidates Recall Their Humbler Abodes
        
Intact Pipes From 1800s Once Carried Water, Though Not Very Well

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); HISTORY (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); DEATHS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%) Firearms; Manhattan (NYC); Mitchel, John Purroy; City Hall; Crime & Public Safety; Government & Politics; Local History; Political History

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%) Mitchel, John Purroy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (75%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (66%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



923 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: The Warnings Behind the Numbers

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: The latest G.D.P. announcement belies more troubling news for America&#8217;s economy. 

 BODY:
On its face, Friday's announcement that the nation's gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter was good news, following as it did an only marginally positive result for the previous three-month period.
But, alas, that rosy headline figure masked disturbing signs: an economy whose recovery has failed to match the pace of past expansions may now be facing a deceleration in its own modest growth rate.

Start with the G.D.P. figures, which can be misleading because of temporary fluctuations in the inventories maintained by businesses. Adjusted for those changes, the economy's annualized growth rate shows a steady deceleration over the past three quarters, from 2.4 percent to 1.9 percent to 1.5 percent. 
That's on top of a highly disappointing employment report for March, when only 88,000 new jobs were created, compared with an average of 197,000 for the previous six months.
And other economic measures - ranging from retail sales to the index of leading economic indicators - have begun to display softness and even declines. All told, at a minimum, we have entered yet another spring slowdown.
Perhaps it will prove transitory, as the pauses of the past three years have been. But worrisome signs suggest that this time may, indeed, be different.
For one thing, hourly wages, after adjustment for inflation, haven't budged in more than three years. That's unusual during an ostensible period of recovery, particularly from such a vicious recession.
Without higher incomes, consumers can't expand their purchases (at least not without dipping into their savings).
Meanwhile, Washington's budget wars have thus far produced a fistful of undesirable policy changes. Instead of thoughtful reforms - particularly to programs like Medicare and Social Security - to begin to bring the nation's long-term debt under control, Congress has adopted a series of meat-ax measures.
While that has shrunk the federal deficit significantly - this year, the deficit is likely to come in at around $775 billion, compared with $1.1 trillion in the previous year - the sudden contraction is likely to slow the economy further, cutting the growth in America's economic output this year by about 1.5 percentage points. Using basic yardsticks, that measures out to 1.5 million fewer jobs.
Finally, the weak world economy has knocked one American strategy for ratcheting up growth - faster increases in exports - badly off the rails. Just three years ago, United States exports were expanding at a 27 percent annual rate; today they are barely growing, and sales to Europe's hard-hit economies are declining.
To be sure, unlike Europe, where countries have faced double-dip recessions (and, in some cases, the prospect of a triple-dip), the United States is highly unlikely to experience a similar fate.
Our economy still exhibits some signs of strength, like the gathering recovery in housing construction and home prices. That has been aided by a strong stock market, which has rebuilt the value of retirement accounts and other investments.
But without rising incomes (and with mortgage financing still constrained), Americans' ability to buy new homes will remain limited.
Meanwhile, the stock market recovery has been built on the shaky pilings of higher corporate profitability that has resulted far more from cutting costs than from growing revenues. That's not sustainable.
The challenges listed above, of course, would be substantial by themselves.
But the most worrisome aspect of our current economic doldrums is that we can't expect any of the factors weighing on it to be self-correcting. For example, the lack of wage growth owes much to the continuing effects of globalization, a trend that has benefited the United States as a whole while hurting many workers.
Nor are the prospects bright for renewed expansion in Europe, or for a resumption of the meteoric growth rates we once saw in emerging market nations, particularly in China.
Were Washington functional, policy makers could significantly ameliorate these effects. First and foremost, Congress could adopt budget policies that would accomplish more thoughtful, more gradual - and yet, ultimately, more substantial - deficit reduction.
Instead of deep, across-the-board cuts in many important investment programs, ranging from infrastructure to research and development, we need to protect those initiatives while adjusting our social welfare programs to live within our means and protect the truly needy.
To address the effects of globalization, so much more can be done in education and training to prepare workers for the skilled jobs that play better to America's strengths.
Congress would be doing the American people a service if it came together to tackle these more consequential questions, and not just the problem of air-traffic delays.

        
Outsourcing Is Not (Always) Evil
        
Are the Good Jobs Gone?
        
Reclaim the Center
        
King Cotton's Long Shadow
        
Singapore's Lessons for an Unequal America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); RETAIL SALES (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); MEDICARE (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Federal Budget (US); Gross Domestic Product; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Steven Rattner

PERSON: STEVEN RATTNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013



924 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Video: Studying the Dark Art of Leaking Deal Talks

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A study by the Cass Business School in London found that leaks had fallen in recent years, and pointed to a strategy of how buyers and sellers approached leaks to gain an advantage. Andrew Ross Sorkin and Peter Lattman discuss the use of leaked information. 

 BODY:
Psst.
That's how you might imagine a "leak" of a big merger or acquisition would start. A well-placed phone call. An off-handed comment over lunch. A confidential document accidentally left on an airplane.
 It seems as if news of most big deals is invariably leaked ahead of the official announcement. Of the biggest deals of the year so far - the buyout of Dell, Warren Buffett's acquisition of Heinz, American Airlines-US Airways, Liberty Global-Virgin Media - none made it to the finish line without the news media finding out about it first, sometimes with weeks of advance notice, some with just hours to go.
An intriguing academic study casts new light on the dark arts of the leak - or what used to be affectionately known in London as "the Friday night drop." (It's a bit of lore, but deal leaks used to be delivered by envelope on Friday night on Fleet Street to the gossipy Sunday broadsheets where the news could be placed as a trial balloon ahead of the markets' reopening on Monday.) 
According to the study, conducted by the Cass Business School in London - and commissioned by Intralinks, a provider of electronic data rooms for deal makers - sellers are often perversely rewarded by leaks in the marketplace: buyers of companies involved in deals that leaked before the announcement paid a premium averaging 18 percentage points more than in deals that did not leak.
The study examined 4,000 deals between 2004 and 2012. On average, the study suggests, despite anecdotal evidence to the contrary, that leaks have actually been reduced in recent years. According to the study, 11 percent of all deals were leaked between 2008 and 2009. Between 2010 and 2012, it fell to 7 percent.
Remarkably, there is a huge divergence based on region. During the period examined, 19 percent of all deals in Britain were leaked, while only 7 percent of deals in the United States were leaked; 10 percent of deals were leaked in Asia.
To the casual observer, those numbers may seem to understate the situation, especially because it is usually the big, complex transactions with brand names that receive the headlines.
In Britain, the Financial Services Authority published a report in 2010 suggesting that word of a whopping 30 percent of all deals was leaked before they were officially announced. At the time, the agency said, "Strategic leaks, designed to be advantageous to a party to a transaction, are particularly damaging to market confidence and do not serve shareholders' or investors' wider interests." It went on to push for "a much stricter culture that firmly and actively discourages leaks."
The Cass study also reflected a distinct downside to deal-leaking: a deal's chances of completion drop significantly. Leaked deals were 9 percent less likely to close than those kept under wraps and took, on average, a week longer to complete, perhaps given the added commotion and complexity created by the leak. (The study did not look at what happened to deals that were leaked but never reached the point of being announced.)
So how did the study explain the reduction of leaks in recent years?
The authors attributed it to "a stricter regulatory environment with more active enforcement and, perhaps most significantly, the subdued deal-making environment and fewer buyers in the market, which has encouraged firms to play it safe and not complicate a deal by leaking."
How true. With so few deals these days, everyone involved in a transaction - management, boards, bankers, lawyers, accountants, public relations professionals, consultants and other fixers - are reluctant to leak and risk their fees, many of which are typically contingent on a deal's completion.
Still, of course, the art of leaking news of a deal has long been part of the mergers and acquisition machine.
Bryan Burrough, the author of "Barbarians at the Gate," described how Henry Kravis reacted in 1986 when news that he was planning to bid for RJR Nabisco leaked, and he made a phone call to a banker he was convinced was responsible.
"I can't believe you did this to me," Mr. Kravis reportedly told Jeff Beck of Drexel Burnham Lambert.
"I didn't do it! I didn't do it! You've got to believe me! It was Wasserstein! It had to be Wasserstein!" Beck shot back, referring to Bruce Wasserstein. Years before Mr. Wasserstein died, he insisted to me that he wasn't behind that leak, but he did say that leaking was part of every deal maker's arsenal in the 1980s. I can confirm that Mr. Wasserstein never leaked to me.
Of course, the topic of this column hits a little too close to home. I will share a bit more, but not too much. A magician, as they say, never reveals his secrets.
First, leaks become exponentially more likely as more people are added to a transaction, whether it be people inside the acquirer or target, or perhaps, as additional advisers are included in the process. If a big deal needs financing - as in debt from banks - the risk of leaks jumps. Every bank contacted then knows about the deal, as does the bank's law firm. And it is not just one or two bankers and lawyers who were first contacted - it's often dozens of them. Every banker or lawyer who brings on a new client must clear the new assignment with a "conflicts committee." That committee can have half a dozen or more people on it - and those people may have to check with others at the firm who are working on competitive projects. This is true not just of banks and law firms but of consulting firms, accounting firms and public relations firms.
The private equity world poses its own problem. Those firms often have large investment committees and also employ armies of outside consultants and law firms that typically do much of the heavy lifting when it comes to going through the books and records of prospective targets.
By the time deal talks begin in earnest, it is almost impossible that fewer than 100 people know about it; more likely it's many more. If there is a "bake-off" - a competition among advisers for the assignment - the number is even higher. And if there is an auction, well, forget about it.
The Cass study suggests all sorts of motivations for deal leaks. "Leaks from the seller are seen primarily as a way to improve the target's bargaining power," for example. The authors added that "leaks from a buyer are seen as a tool to scupper a deal which has not progressed as originally hoped." The authors also said that third parties, not involved in a deal but aware of it, are "seen as a source of leaks designed to sabotage a deal." Yet, the authors also said that "some M.&A. practitioners also feel that leaks can be used to help drive a deal through when one side is delaying."
Those explanations make sense. Over the years, I've heard it all: a chief executive who wanted to get a deal done despite opposition from his board and was convinced that if the market knew, investors would cheer and bolster his position; a board member who wanted to block a deal but didn't have the votes and was convinced that if the market knew there would be an outcry; a banker who lost the business to a rival firm and wanted to make his competitor appear to be a leaker.
But the one problem with the Cass study is this: It assumes the leaks are rational and based on a considered strategy. As a reporter who has covered the world of deal-making for more than a decade, I can attest that most "leaks" are actually not that organized. More often than not, they start out as accidents - a tip from a competitor about a transaction they heard about that then gets passed on.
The rate of deal leaks may be down. But if the economy begins chugging along - and a merger boom, a good gauge of market sentiment, returns - keep your eyes peeled. The "Friday night drop" might stage a comeback.

        
Regulatory Concerns to Delay Bank Merger
        
Nasdaq to Buy Electronic Bond Trading Platform for $750 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); STATISTICS (87%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); AIRLINES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); DIVESTITURES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); SECURITIES LAW (64%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; News and News Media; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); LIBERTY GLOBAL INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); INTRALINKS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%); LBTYA (NASDAQ) (57%); IL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



925 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Technology Start-Ups Take Root in Berlin

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: New companies are growing fast in the German capital, which with its stylish cool and cheap rents is becoming a vibrant home for young entrepreneurs. 

 BODY:
BERLIN - Near the Rosenthaler Platz subway station here, signs of the city's high-tech future blend seamlessly with its communist past.
Decrepit breweries and stables have been converted to communal offices decked out in colorful Ikea furniture. Achingly cool coffee shops with names like Betahaus and St. Oberholz are packed with programmers in their 20s and 30s hunched over shiny new laptops. And even as the city's unemployment broadly remains high, vintage clothing stores selling patent-leather Dr. Martens boots for 180 euros, or $235, entice technology transplants from across Europe with promotions in English.
 "I got sucked into Berlin," said Henrik Berggren, a Swedish college dropout who moved here in 2011 to work on his e-book venture, ReadMill. "It became clear that this was the place to be."
More than two decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the German capital has gone from a cold war relic to one of the fastest-growing start-up communities. Engineers and designers have flooded into Berlin in recent years, attracted by the underground music scene, cutting-edge art galleries, stylish bars and low rent. 
Hours after landing at Tegel airport, Mr. Berggren, a bearded 33-year-old computer programmer, found an apartment with two 20-something Germans in one of the city's trendiest neighborhoods for just 300 euros, or $390, a month. A few days later, he secured a cheap office for his four-person team, a space they shared with several other start-ups.
With the new wave of entrepreneurs, Berlin, once viewed as the poor relation to Germany's main business centers, like Frankfurt and Hamburg, is improving its ranking in the country's economic hierarchy.
In March, the country's chancellor, Angela Merkel, toured several local technology firms in a show of support. The city's politicians also are trying to make it easier for international workers to get visas by fast-tracking applications from technology professionals and other workers.
"The scene is very young," said Alex Ljung, the co-founder of SoundCloud, a music Web site backed by the American venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. "Berlin isn't proven yet. It's much like a start-up in that way."
By Silicon Valley standards, Berlin is still a backwater.
Entrepreneurs say high-quality programmers and engineers are hard to find, and a lack of early-stage funding from venture capital firms, particularly those in Europe, has hampered companies' growth. After getting burned by the dot-com bust, German venture capitalists have largely shied away from making big investments, preferring to finance early-stage companies with checks of less than $2 million.
The city also is trying to overcome its reputation for copying American business models rather than developing innovative ideas.
The Samwer brothers, whose Berlin start-up incubator Rocket Internet has completed a series of successful deals, sold German versions of eBay and Groupon to their more famous competitors. The brothers - Alexander, Oliver and Marc - have used the proceeds to invest in companies like Facebook and Zynga. One of their latest projects, a German rival to the online retailer Zappos, is valued at $3.7 billion.
"Previous generations of Berlin start-ups were copycats," said Matt Cohler, a partner at the venture firm Benchmark Capital, who was one of the first employees at both LinkedIn and Facebook, and has invested in a Berlin start-up. "It was the predominant playbook."
More important, there have been few successful exits - sales to larger companies or lucrative initial public offerings - that could cement Berlin's place in the global start-up community. Among those deals, few break the $1 billion mark.
In 2010, Groupon bought the European rival CityDeal for around $260 million. Google acquired DailyDeal, a similar daily deals Web site from Berlin, for a reported $200 million in 2011; earlier this year, the Internet giant sold the start-up back to its founders.
"Many funds got started at the wrong time," said Christophe Maire, an angel investor in Berlin, whose nickname is the Conductor because he has mentored, and invested in, many of the city's new generation of young entrepreneurs.
"There's a reluctance to back innovation."
But as local start-ups gain global audiences - and international backing - entrepreneurs and investors are betting on Berlin. While venture capital investment in the rest of Europe has remained flat since the financial crisis began, the city attracted 173 million euros ($226 million) in venture funding last year, a 164 percent increase compared with 2009.
Big technology companies are showing interest, too. Earlier this month, the Japanese technology giant Panasonic bought Aupeo, a local audio streaming service, for an undisclosed amount. Google has invested in a local start-up hub called the Factory that is being built at a site that once was part of the Berlin Wall.
"There are billion-dollar companies just waiting to happen," said Ciaran O'Leary, a partner in the local venture firm Early Bird, in his minimalist office in the center of the city. "Something big is going to happen. It's just a question of time."
Ijad Madisch knows the limits of starting a technology company in Germany.
Mr. Madisch, a Harvard-educated medical doctor, also holds a Ph.D. in virology and has studied computer science. Yet when he started working on Research Gate, a social networking site that allows scientists to share work and collaborate on projects, he faced resistance.
Returning to Hanover to be closer to his family in 2008, Mr. Madisch's college supervisor told him to give up his pet project after he asked to work part time to focus on the start-up.
The next day, Mr. Madisch, 32, quit his job. He soon transferred to Harvard where a former boss was happy to let him work fewer hours while he pursued his business idea. Friends also put him in contact with blue-chip American venture firms, including Benchmark Capital and Accel Partners.
After securing early-stage fund-raising from West Coast backers, Mr. Madisch moved Research Gate from Boston to Berlin in 2011, and has expanded his staff tenfold in less than two years, to 120 employees. The site now connects more than 2.6 million scientists worldwide, and Mr. Madisch plans to make money by selling advertisements for academic conferences and job openings.
In an ironic twist, Mr. Madisch's former boss, who had warned him against starting the company, is now one of the site's most active users.
"I had to leave Germany to get back to Germany," Mr. Madisch said in his three-floor office in central Berlin that has a large game room and sleeping pods to keep programmers fresh.
"German venture capitalists had this idea in front of them, and they didn't do anything about it."
For entrepreneurs, Berlin offers the infrastructure, without the costly overhead of Northern California, New York or London. Commercial rents in the once-communist side of the city are about half of that in London, allowing entrepreneurs to stretch their start-up budgets.
Three years ago, the founders of EyeEm, a mobile photo app similar to Instagram, borrowed an art gallery in a chic part of Berlin to start a global online photography competition. The showcase received more than 2,000 entries from around the world and formed the basis of their business idea.
EyeEm later replicated the exhibition in SoHo. But costs quickly rose as the founders had to fork over high rent for a trendy gallery, submit multiple forms to receive licensing permits and pay high wages to waiters and security staff.
"The cheap rent Berlin buys you time, and time is everything," said Lorenz Aschoff, a co-founder of EyeEm, in the company's converted loft space. "If we hadn't received the original gallery for free, it would have killed the idea before it took off."
As start-ups in the German capital become more established, entrepreneurs and investors alike are hoping that one of the city's companies will turn the growing interest in Berlin into cash.
Many eyes have focused on Wooga, an online game start-up founded in 2009 that competes with Zynga for users on mobile phones and social networking sites like Facebook.
At a converted bakery colorfully adorned with characters from Wooga's games, the company's 250 employees from more than 35 countries busily plan their next online game.
After raising money from both European and American venture firms, Jens Begemann, Wooga's co-founder and chief executive, said investors are slowly reconsidering untested ideas. He is focused on beefing up its games for smartphones in an effort to diversify away from sites like Facebook.
"Gaming involves combining skilled engineering with a creative atmosphere," said Mr. Begemann, 36, in the start-up's five-story office where programmers share ideas in an open-plan kitchen that has been designed to look like a leafy forest. "Wooga couldn't exist in any city other than Berlin."

        
Cyberattacks a Huge Threat to Start-Ups, and Their Investors
        
Winklevoss Twins Lead Investment in Start-Up Shopping Site

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); STARTUPS (88%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (72%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); MUSIC (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); RANKINGS (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%) Berlin (Germany); Computers and the Internet; EyeEm; Start-ups; Technology; Venture Capital

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EyeEm

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (99%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%) Berlin (Germany)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



926 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Michele Davis to Join Morgan Stanley

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The former financial crisis-era Treasury official has been named to run the corporate communications department at Morgan Stanley. 

 BODY:
Michele A. Davis, a prominent Washington insider, has been named to run the corporate communications department at Morgan Stanley. 
Ms. Davis, a partner at the public relations firm Brunswick Group, played a major role in the government's response to the financial crisis, advising then Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. among others on communication strategy. She also counseled BP after the 2010 oil spill that wreaked havoc on the Gulf Coast. 
"Michele has worked at the nexus of political and financial media throughout her career, serving in a number of senior communications positions in the U.S. Treasury Department, Fannie Mae and the White House from 2001 to January 2009," Morgan Stanley's chief executive, James P. Gorman, and the firm's vice chairman, Thomas R. Nides, wrote in a memorandum to staff members on Monday morning. 
The recruitment of Ms. Davis is a big development for Morgan Stanley, which has been without a permanent global head of corporate affairs for several months since Jeanmarie McFadden left in February. Ms. Davis has been in talks with Morgan Stanley for weeks, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak on the record. 
It is unclear exactly what duties Ms. Davis will have at Morgan Stanley, but Ms. McFadden oversaw media relations, marketing and community affairs. Ms. McFadden was also a member of the firm's management committee. Ms. Davis will report to Mr. Nides, according to the internal memo. She will also sit on the management committee.
Ms. Davis currently lives in Washington and is expected to split her time between New York City and the Capitol, these people said. 
Ms. Davis was a character in the HBO movie "Too Big to Fail," which chronicled the events that led up the financial crisis. She was portrayed in the film by Cynthia Nixon. 

        
Morgan Stanley's Gorman Visits BP
        
Feinberg Faults Banks for $1.6 Billion in Bonuses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OIL SPILLS (56%) BP Plc; Morgan Stanley; Too Big to Fail (Movie); BP Plc|BP|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Revolving Door; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (96%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BP Plc; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (96%) BP Plc; BP; NYSE; BP Plc; BP; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); JAMES GORMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



927 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Most Banks Could Still Profit Under Tough New Overhaul Proposal

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Most banks would still make good money under a tough new piece of financial overhaul legislation introduced in the Senate last week. 

 BODY:
Most banks would still make good money under a tough new piece of financial overhaul legislation introduced in the Senate last week.
Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, have written a bill that would substantially strengthen the financial foundations of most banks. 
The legislation focuses on capital, the part of a bank's balance sheet that acts as a buffer to absorb potential losses. Under the bill, banks with more than $500 billion in assets would have to hold capital that is equivalent to at least 15 percent of their assets. That's far higher than the capital levels required today. But only six institutions, the nation's megabanks, have more than $500 billion of assets. 
Most other banks, many of them still quite big, would get to hold capital that is equivalent to 8 percent of their assets. 
Many critics of the Brown-Vitter bill have said the proposed capital requirements are recklessly high. They contend that banks won't be able to make a sufficient return on their capital. This would prompt them to curtail the unprofitable lending, depriving the wider economy of credit, according to the critics.
What do the numbers say?
A good starting point is to look at the profits that banks are earning on their assets. In 2012, bank earnings were equivalent to 0.75 percent to 0.8 percent of their assets, according to data from SNL Financial. 
At a bank with $100 billion in assets, the 0.8 percent return on assets translates into earnings of $800 million a year. Under Brown-Vitter, the bank would have an 8 percent capital requirement, requiring it to hold capital of $8 billion. 
The question then becomes: How much can that bank earn on that capital? Shareholders will want bank executives to try and maximize that measure of profitability, called return on equity (capital is composed of equity). 
How does our $100 billion bank do? Pretty well, in fact. With capital of 8 percent, its $800 million of profits translates into a return on equity of 10 percent. Bank analysts estimate that the bank has to effectively "pay" 10 percent to 12 percent for its capital. So, this bank would just about cover its cost of capital.
But banks may earn far more than that in coming years. Currently, their return on assets is still somewhat depressed. Profits are likely to balloon if the housing market revives and the economy grows at higher rates. Look at what happens if the assets of our $100 billion bank show a return of 1.2 percent, a rate that was commonly achieved in better times and is already being exceeded by some banks now. That would translate into an impressive 15 percent return on equity.
But what about the six largest banks that would have to hold 15 percent capital? They would find it much harder to achieve strong returns on that much higher level of equity. As a result, they would have a big incentive to reduce their size below $500 billion to qualify for the lower 8 percent capital threshold. That could mean spinning off business. That would be disruptive, but shareholders might soon see the advantages of more streamlined banks and flock to those that focus on strengths. 
Taxpayers would breathe more easily as banks downsize. When megabanks fail, the authorities feel they have to bail them out to protect the wider financial system. And it's clear that Brown-Vitter would likely shrink the ranks of such lenders. 
The Brown-Vitter bill may get nowhere. But the bill has already served a useful purpose. These numbers, based on the text of the legislation, show how a simple change to capital regulations could do much to protect the country from the too-big-to-fail threat while allowing the vast majority of banks to earn reasonable returns as they lend to consumers and companies. 
The big risk would lie in shrinking the six largest financial companies. It would be no easy process to take Bank of America and JPMorgan from more than $2 trillion in assets to $500 billion. It would likely weigh on credit creation and confidence, even if it were done over an extended period. 
In essence, then, Brown-Vitter forces us to ask whether that downsizing risk is preferable to the risk of living with too-big-too-fail banks for the foreseeable future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%) Financial Services; Investment Banking

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (89%); DAVID VITTER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2013



928 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Posts a Profit and Agrees to Raise Its Capital Reserves

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: The biggest German bank, which posted an 18 percent increase in profit for the first quarter, said it would sell $3.65 billion in new shares to bolster its capital reserves. 

 BODY:
 8:17 p.m. | Updated 
FRANKFURT - Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, moved Monday to address criticism that it has too thin a cushion against risk, announcing that it planned to issue $3.65 billion in new stock to increase its capital reserves.
The bank had earlier resisted the move, which was first booed and then cheered by the stock market. The company also said that its first-quarter profit rose as cost-cutting offset a decline in revenue from investment banking. 
 Since the 2008 financial crisis, banks have been under intense pressure from regulators to raise capital so they are better able to absorb shocks. Deutsche Bank has faced criticism for having too little capital compared with other banks its size.
The bank had been reluctant to issue new shares, which dilutes the value of existing equity, and instead sought to raise the ratio of capital to money at risk by selling assets or other measures. The bank did not immediately explain its change of course, but it is becoming increasingly clear that banks throughout Europe have little choice but to take steps designed to prevent future financial crises. Shareholders of Commerzbank, Germany's second-largest bank, backed plans earlier this month to issue new shares.
"Banking has to become boring again," Rüdiger Filbry, director of the German banking practice at the Boston Consulting Group, said during a meeting with reporters Monday, referring to the industry in general. "We expect significantly lower profits than we have seen in the past."
Deutsche Bank portrayed the share sale as the logical next step in a campaign to increase capital that began last year and has already made the bank safer. "Deutsche Bank ranks today amongst the best-capitalized banks in the world in our global peer group," Jürgen Fitschen and Anshu Jain, co-chief executives of the bank, said in a statement.
Deutsche Bank, which has large operations in the United States, may also have been reacting to pressure from the Federal Reserve. The Fed has pressed foreign lenders to hold more capital at their local operating units to make sure that the American operations have the financial strength to absorb losses.
Banks also face a deadline to meet new global standards known as Basel III, which began taking effect this year. Deutsche Bank said the share sale and other measures would raise the ratio of capital to assets, as defined by the new rules, to 9.5 percent from 8.8 percent at the end of the quarter. That is comfortably above capital requirements that are being phased in through the beginning of 2019.
Deutsche Bank executives had earlier grumbled about the new rules, saying they were unnecessarily restrictive. Stefan Krause, the bank's chief financial officer, said in a call with analysts in January that the rules "were really not very helpful in terms of helping global financial markets."
On Monday, however, the bank said that it would issue 2.8 billion euros in new shares. The sale will increase the number of existing shares by about 10 percent and could reduce the size of the dividend that shareholders would otherwise receive. Deutsche Bank said it would sell the shares privately to institutional investors and would not sell them publicly.
Deutsche Bank shares fell about 2 percent in trading in New York before recovering and finishing up 3.7 percent, at $43.85.
Proponents of bigger capital buffers argue that they will ultimately benefit banks because the lenders will pay a lower risk premium to raise money on capital markets.
While Deutsche Bank avoided a direct government bailout - one of the few large German banks to do so - it continues to cope with fallout from the financial crisis as well as numerous legal scandals.
Those include a tax evasion inquiry that led to a raid on company headquarters in late 2012 involving hundreds of police officers who surrounded the bank's high-rise headquarters in Frankfurt. Executives have also acknowledged that the bank could face additional lawsuits related to its sale of securities tied to the United States subprime mortgage market.
The German central bank is also said to be looking into accusations that Deutsche Bank hid billions of dollars in losses to avoid a potential bailout during the financial crisis. The investigation stems from accusations that Deutsche Bank understated the value of credit derivatives positions beginning in 2007 that were worth as much as $130 billion in so-called notional terms.
The bank has also been ensnared by the global investigation into rate manipulation. Last month, Deutsche Bank said it allocated an additional 600 million euros ($775 million) to cover its legal costs, a move that reduced its pretax profit for 2012 by the same amount.
News of the share sale initially overshadowed the bank's earnings report. Net profit rose to 1.66 billion euros ($2.16 billion), up nearly 18 percent from 1.41 billion euros in the period a year earlier, Deutsche Bank said in announcing earnings a day earlier than previously scheduled.
Mr. Fitschen and Mr. Jain said in a statement that the earnings report "reflects the strength of our franchise in the face of continued regulatory challenges and cost efficiencies arising from our operational excellence program."
Since taking over the bank last year, the two leaders have promised to cut back on risk-taking and address what they acknowledged were ethical lapses in the past. The bank said on Monday that it had reduced its assets, the total amount of money at risk, to 325 billion euros ($423 billion) at the end of the first quarter compared with 334 billion euros ($435 billion) at the end of 2012.
Much of the increase in profit came from cost-cutting. Deutsche Bank said it cut expenses not including interest by 370 million euros, to 6.6 billion euros.
An earlier version of the photo misstated the titles of Jürgen Fitschen and Anshu Jain. As the article correctly noted, they are co-chief executives of the bank, not co-chairmen.

        
As Earnings Season Rolls On, European Banks Show Signs of Health
        
Looking Beyond Crisis, Deutsche Bank Issues Shares to Shore Up Its Books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) Company Reports; Deutsche Bank AG; Germany; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); COMMERZBANK AG (90%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); CZB (LSE) (90%); CBK (FRA) (90%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (78%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013



929 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Even VW Now Feels the Weight Of Europe's Economic Troubles

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
The troubled European car market is now dragging down even Volkswagen, the region's leading automaker, as vehicle sales on the Continent have declined to their lowest levels in decades.
Until now, Volkswagen, the German auto company, had been buffered a bit more than other auto companies doing business in Europe because of its size and strong sales in North America and China.
But its shrinking profit margins reflect both the industry's steep sales decline in Europe as well as intense price competition in the biggest vehicle segments. 
Volkswagen joins a growing roster of foreign and United States automakers that are struggling in Europe, where car sales dropped 10 percent during the first quarter, including double-digit decreases in France, Germany and Spain.
Most automakers are banking on surging sales in the United States to offset some of these losses.
And VW's chairman, Martin Winterkorn, cautioned that the company expected little improvement any time soon in Europe.
''The coming months will be anything but easy,'' Mr. Winterkorn said in a statement. ''The current environment is definitely a tough challenge for the entire industry.''
VW reported on Monday that its after-tax profit fell 38 percent, to 1.95 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in the first quarter, even though revenue slipped just 1 percent, to 46.6 billion euros.
The Italian automaker Fiat also reported a drop, reporting that its net profits plunged 88 percent during the three-month period, to 31 million euros ($40 million), and that revenue fell 2 percent, to 19.76 billion euros.
Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said that the combination of pricing pressure and weak demand was likely to depress profits in Europe for some time. ''It is unfortunate the European market is in this state,'' Mr. Marchionne said Monday in a conference call with reporters and analysts.
He added that some automakers had considered themselves immune to the downturn, but no longer. ''Those who have claimed a Teflon approach are getting that coat taken off,'' he said.
Last week, the American automaker Ford reported a pretax loss of $462 million in Europe, and projected a full-year loss of $2 billion in the region. And the French carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroën said it expected losses to force new labor talks to cut costs and increase competitiveness.
With the European market in such a dismal state, most auto companies are counting on surging sales in the United States to generate the bulk of their future profits.
At Volkswagen, the company's Audi luxury brand is the bright spot in its lineup. Audi, which has posted a 16 percent sales increase in the United States this year, contributed more than two-thirds of overall profits that VW earned in the first quarter.
Fiat has been getting virtually all of its profits from its Chrysler subsidiary in the United States.
Fiat took control of Chrysler after the American company's government bailout and bankruptcy in 2009. Since then, the Italian automaker has accumulated a 58.5 percent stake in Chrysler, and they have begun developing vehicles together.
In the first quarter, however, Chrysler's comeback stalled somewhat, as it spent heavily on new versions of two core products, the Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle and a heavy-duty Ram pickup truck.
Chrysler said Monday that its net income fell 65 percent during the quarter, to $166 million, and revenue dropped 6 percent, to $15.4 billion.
Yet Chrysler still managed to help Fiat post a profit. Without Chrysler's contribution to the bottom line, Fiat said it would have lost money during the period.
Mr. Marchionne, who is also chief executive of Chrysler, said he expected the American company to reach its full-year target of $2.2 billion in net income and revenue of $72 billion or more.
He said that the coming introduction of the new Jeep Cherokee S.U.V. this summer was ''crucial'' to hitting those goals.
''We need to do everything we can between now and then to make it happen,'' Mr. Marchionne said.
He added that given the strength of the United States market, Chrysler should regain momentum with its new models. ''The onus is on us,'' he said.
Analysts said that Chrysler's performance remained Fiat's best hedge against the turmoil in Europe.
''Who would've guessed five years ago when Fiat rode to the rescue of a then-bankrupt Chrysler, that Chrysler would be viewed as the savior of Fiat?'' asked Jack R. Nerad, an analyst with the auto research service Kelley Blue Book.
Mr. Marchionne also updated analysts Monday on the potential for Fiat to take full ownership of Chrysler.
''I have always seen Fiat and Chrysler being one entity at some point in time,'' he said. ''How we get there is a story that's going to be written.''
Fiat hopes to buy the 41.5 percent stake in Chrysler owned by a health care trust for United Automobile Workers union retirees in the United States. But Fiat and the U.A.W. trust remain far apart on a price for the shares.
A federal judge in Delaware is considering different valuations proposed for the stock, and is expected to make a ruling on a fair price this summer.
Until the court case is resolved, Mr. Marchionne said a potential Fiat-Chrysler merger was temporarily delayed.
''I remain hopeful that we can find a solution that meets their objectives and ours,'' he said.
If Fiat is successful in acquiring the shares owned by the U.A.W. trust, it could consolidate its balance sheet with Chrysler. Fiat could then gain access to Chrysler's cash reserves to bolster its product lineup in Europe and elsewhere.
Once a Fiat-Chrysler merger is completed, Mr. Marchionne said the combined company would restructure itself and issue new shares to raise capital.
Fiat shares, like most Italian companies, are currently traded on the stock exchange in Milan. But Mr. Marchionne said new shares in Fiat-Chrysler would most likely be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
''It's the most efficient capital market I can get my hands on,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emblems of the Volkswagen Golf VII in a plant in Wolfsburg, Germany. VW said profit fell 38 percent in the first quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABIAN BIMMER/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EURO (87%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); FIAT SPA (85%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (82%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%); UG (PAR) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



930 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Start-Ups Take Root in Berlin

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
BERLIN -- Near the Rosenthaler Platz subway station here, signs of the city's high-tech future blend seamlessly with its communist past.
Decrepit breweries and stables have been converted to communal offices decked out in colorful Ikea furniture. Achingly cool coffee shops with names like Betahaus and St. Oberholz are packed with programmers in their 20s and 30s hunched over shiny new laptops. And even as the city's unemployment broadly remains high, vintage clothing stores selling patent-leather Dr. Martens boots for 180 euros, or $235, entice technology transplants from across Europe with promotions in English.
''I got sucked into Berlin,'' said Henrik Berggren, a Swedish college dropout who moved here in 2011 to work on his e-book venture, ReadMill. ''It became clear that this was the place to be.''
More than two decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the German capital has gone from a cold war relic to one of the fastest-growing start-up communities. Engineers and designers have flooded into Berlin in recent years, attracted by the underground music scene, cutting-edge art galleries, stylish bars and low rent. 
Hours after landing at Tegel airport, Mr. Berggren, a bearded 33-year-old computer programmer, found an apartment with two 20-something Germans in one of the city's trendiest neighborhoods for just 300 euros, or $390, a month. A few days later, he secured a cheap office for his four-person team, a space they shared with several other start-ups.
With the new wave of entrepreneurs, Berlin, once viewed as the poor relation to Germany's main business centers, like Frankfurt and Hamburg, is improving its ranking in the country's economic hierarchy.
In March, the country's chancellor, Angela Merkel, toured several local technology firms in a show of support. The city's politicians also are trying to make it easier for international workers to get visas by fast-tracking applications from technology professionals and other workers.
''The scene is very young,'' said Alex Ljung, the co-founder of SoundCloud, a music Web site backed by the American venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. ''Berlin isn't proven yet. It's much like a start-up in that way.''
By Silicon Valley standards, Berlin is still a backwater.
Entrepreneurs say high-quality programmers and engineers are hard to find, and a lack of early-stage funding from venture capital firms, particularly those in Europe, has hampered companies' growth. After getting burned by the dot-com bust, German venture capitalists have largely shied away from making big investments, preferring to finance early-stage companies with checks of less than $2 million.
The city also is trying to overcome its reputation for copying American business models rather than developing innovative ideas.
The Samwer brothers, whose Berlin start-up incubator Rocket Internet has completed a series of successful deals, sold German versions of eBay and Groupon to their more famous competitors. The brothers -- Alexander, Oliver and Marc -- have used the proceeds to invest in companies like Facebook and Zynga. One of their latest projects, a German rival to the online retailer Zappos, is valued at $3.7 billion.
''Previous generations of Berlin start-ups were copycats,'' said Matt Cohler, a partner at the venture firm Benchmark Capital, who was one of the first employees at both LinkedIn and Facebook, and has invested in a Berlin start-up. ''It was the predominant playbook.''
More important, there have been few successful exits -- sales to larger companies or lucrative initial public offerings -- that could cement Berlin's place in the global start-up community. Among those deals, few break the $1 billion mark.
In 2010, Groupon bought the European rival CityDeal for around $260 million. Google acquired DailyDeal, a similar daily deals Web site from Berlin, for a reported $200 million in 2011; earlier this year, the Internet giant sold the start-up back to its founders.
''Many funds got started at the wrong time,'' said Christophe Maire, an angel investor in Berlin, whose nickname is the Conductor because he has mentored, and invested in, many of the city's new generation of young entrepreneurs.
''There's a reluctance to back innovation.''
But as local start-ups gain global audiences -- and international backing -- entrepreneurs and investors are betting on Berlin. While venture capital investment in the rest of Europe has remained flat since the financial crisis began, the city attracted 173 million euros ($226 million) in venture funding last year, a 164 percent increase compared with 2009.
Big technology companies are showing interest, too. Earlier this month, the Japanese technology giant Panasonic bought Aupeo, a local audio streaming service, for an undisclosed amount. Google has invested in a local start-up hub called the Factory that is being built at a site that once was part of the Berlin Wall.
''There are billion-dollar companies just waiting to happen,'' said Ciaran O'Leary, a partner in the local venture firm Early Bird, in his minimalist office in the center of the city. ''Something big is going to happen. It's just a question of time.''
Ijad Madisch knows the limits of starting a technology company in Germany.
Mr. Madisch, a Harvard-educated medical doctor, also holds a Ph.D. in virology and has studied computer science. Yet when he started working on Research Gate, a social networking site that allows scientists to share work and collaborate on projects, he faced resistance.
Returning to Hanover to be closer to his family in 2008, Mr. Madisch's college supervisor told him to give up his pet project after he asked to work part time to focus on the start-up.
The next day, Mr. Madisch, 32, quit his job. He soon transferred to Harvard where a former boss was happy to let him work fewer hours while he pursued his business idea. Friends also put him in contact with blue-chip American venture firms, including Benchmark Capital and Accel Partners.
After securing early-stage fund-raising from West Coast backers, Mr. Madisch moved Research Gate from Boston to Berlin in 2011, and has expanded his staff tenfold in less than two years, to 120 employees. The site now connects more than 2.6 million scientists worldwide, and Mr. Madisch plans to make money by selling advertisements for academic conferences and job openings.
In an ironic twist, Mr. Madisch's former boss, who had warned him against starting the company, is now one of the site's most active users.
''I had to leave Germany to get back to Germany,'' Mr. Madisch said in his three-floor office in central Berlin that has a large game room and sleeping pods to keep programmers fresh.
''German venture capitalists had this idea in front of them, and they didn't do anything about it.''
For entrepreneurs, Berlin offers the infrastructure, without the costly overhead of Northern California, New York or London. Commercial rents in the once-communist side of the city are about half of that in London, allowing entrepreneurs to stretch their start-up budgets.
Three years ago, the founders of EyeEm, a mobile photo app similar to Instagram, borrowed an art gallery in a chic part of Berlin to start a global online photography competition. The showcase received more than 2,000 entries from around the world and formed the basis of their business idea.
EyeEm later replicated the exhibition in SoHo. But costs quickly rose as the founders had to fork over high rent for a trendy gallery, submit multiple forms to receive licensing permits and pay high wages to waiters and security staff.
''The cheap rent Berlin buys you time, and time is everything,'' said Lorenz Aschoff, a co-founder of EyeEm, in the company's converted loft space. ''If we hadn't received the original gallery for free, it would have killed the idea before it took off.''
As start-ups in the German capital become more established, entrepreneurs and investors alike are hoping that one of the city's companies will turn the growing interest in Berlin into cash.
Many eyes have focused on Wooga, an online game start-up founded in 2009 that competes with Zynga for users on mobile phones and social networking sites like Facebook.
At a converted bakery colorfully adorned with characters from Wooga's games, the company's 250 employees from more than 35 countries busily plan their next online game.
After raising money from both European and American venture firms, Jens Begemann, Wooga's co-founder and chief executive, said investors are slowly reconsidering untested ideas. He is focused on beefing up its games for smartphones in an effort to diversify away from sites like Facebook.
''Gaming involves combining skilled engineering with a creative atmosphere,'' said Mr. Begemann, 36, in the start-up's five-story office where programmers share ideas in an open-plan kitchen that has been designed to look like a leafy forest. ''Wooga couldn't exist in any city other than Berlin.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jens Begemann of Wooga, top
Ijad Madisch of ResearchGate
and Simon Schaefer at the future site of the Factory, a start-up hub. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the start-up ResearchGate last month. City officials in Berlin are taking steps to make it easier for entrepreneurs to get started. Below left, laptops fill the tabletops at St. Oberholz coffee shop. Lorenz Aschoff, a co-founder of EyeEm, said Berlin's cheap rents helped his company get started. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HANNIBAL HANSCHKE
 GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); STARTUPS (88%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); FINANCING ROUNDS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (72%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); MUSIC (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); RANKINGS (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (99%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



931 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Reports a Profit Drop of 65%

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Chrysler Group said Monday that its net income fell 65 percent in the first quarter, to $166 million, as the automaker spent heavily to prepare for new product introductions. 
Chrysler, the smallest of Detroit's three auto companies, said revenue dropped 6 percent in the quarter, to $15.4 billion despite an 8 percent increase in new vehicle sales. The weaker results indicated that Chrysler is still solidifying its comeback from a government bailout and bankruptcy in 2009.
But the company's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, reaffirmed earlier forecasts that Chrysler would earn $2.2 billion for the full year on revenue of $72 billion or higher.
''We remain on track to achieve our business targets, even as the first-quarter results were affected by an aggressive product-launch schedule,'' said Mr. Marchionne, who is also chief executive of Chrysler's parent company, the Italian automaker Fiat.
Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler, later Monday morning also reported a decline in profit as weak sales in Europe persisted. The parent company said its net profit in the first quarter fell to 31 million euros, an 88 percent decline from the 262 million euros it earned in the same period in 2012. The company's revenue dropped 2 percent to $19.8 billion euros. Without its profit contributions from Chrysler, Fiat said it would have lost $41 million euros in the quarter.
The first-quarter results mark Chrysler's seventh consecutive profitable quarter. The company reported that it sold 563,000 vehicles worldwide during the three-month period, an 8 percent increase from the same period a year ago. Most of the additional sales came in the United States, where Chrysler said its market share improved slightly to 11.4 percent, up from 11.2 percent in the same period in 2012.
Chrysler's turnaround since the recession has been built on reviving core products, like Jeep sport utility vehicles and Ram pickups, as well as bringing out new models like the Dodge Dart compact car. Competition is increasing among all automakers in the American market, which is growing while demand is sliding in Europe and other important international markets.
Chrysler said its lower profits in the quarter reflect costs associated with the introductions of new versions of its Jeep Grand Cherokee S.U.V. and heavy-duty Ram pickup, and second-quarter production of the new Jeep Cherokee.
The company said its cash reserves improved to $11.9 billion during the quarter, up from $11.3 billion a year ago. Its overall debt was $12.5 billion, about the same as it reported in the first quarter of 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); EURO (87%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (85%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



932 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: 100 Years Ago, a Mayor With a Ready Trigger Finger

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's campaign for stricter gun regulation might have been, well, gun shy about recruiting one of his predecessors, John Purroy Mitchel.
After all, Mitchel not only packed a pistol himself, he also brandished it in front of City Hall when he was fired upon by a crazed 71-year-old man a century ago.
Two months after that episode, as Mitchel was returning to his Riverside Drive home from target practice upstate, his gun dislodged from its holster, struck the sidewalk with a thud and accidentally discharged, wounding one of his shooting partners -- a prominent real estate developer and former Brooklyn state senator. 
Mitchel, who was elected in 1913 at the age of 34, said he had carried a gun since succeeding Mayor William F. Gaynor, who was shot by a disgruntled former city employee in 1910. Gaynor died three years later of a heart attack, still suffering from the lingering effects of the wound.
Carrying concealed weapons without a permit had been banned in 1911 under New York State's Sullivan Act. Within a few years, about 8,000 New Yorkers had carry permits, including Mitchel, who paid $1 for a permit issued by the Police Department.
On April 17, 1914, he and several other officials entered a Police Department car in front of City Hall to go to lunch downtown, when a man identified as Michael P. Mahoney, an unemployed Irish immigrant, fired a bullet that missed the mayor, but wounded the city's corporation counsel in the cheek.
''Mayor Mitchel himself, leaping up in the automobile, drew a revolver,'' The New York Times reported. Mahoney was quickly wrestled to the ground by the police commissioner.
What was originally suspected as an anarchist plot turned out to be the act of a former blacksmith and carpenter who was recovering (and suing) after being hit by a falling brick from two floors up.
''The experience of the last administration teaches us that there are always a few crazy people in every community and no one can foretell what they will do,'' Mitchel explained.
Asked about his actions, Mitchel said, ''Certainly I drew a gun, for if there was another shot fired, I intended to be first.''
Mitchel believed his marksmanship had saved his life on an earlier trip to South America after he discovered that some of the porters employed by his party were ex-convicts. He slept with a revolver in his robe and took target practice daily to intimidate them.
In the West Indies, according to an article in The Century Magazine, Mitchel learned a lesson in crowd control during ''an adventure with a tribe of aboriginal Indians, hostile to the diamond mines which his firm represented'':
''One day they surrounded him and his guide. The chief's feathered headdress outlined against a large tree-trunk. Mitchel shot it, scattering feathers and tribe. This was brisker than parley and simpler than diplomacy. Doubtless it was more effective than either with frightened savages. And it showed Mitchel a quick method of handling a crowd.''
Mitchel was a staunch advocate for military preparedness before the United States entered World War I and trained upstate with other prospective officers. According to one account, he shot 24 out of 25 on the rifle range. He also created a civilian defense force whose 22,000 volunteers took revolver training so they could supplement the police force in case of an emergency.
But while he was hailed as a champion of progressive government, his experience with weapons was mixed, as was the experience of his father, James Mitchel.
Michael Miscione, Manhattan's borough historian, recalled that James Mitchel, a captain in the Confederate army, was wounded four times. ''You'd think John would have developed distaste for guns,'' Mr. Miscione said.
In June 1914, former State Senator William H. Reynolds, a developer with interests in Brooklyn and Queens and on Long Island, was shot in the thigh when Mayor Mitchel's gun fell to the sidewalk, snapping the safety lock and causing it to fire. The bullet exited Reynolds's finger.
The event was hushed up and the police learned about it only after it was reported in The Times.
After his defeat for re-election in 1917, Mitchel joined the military as an air cadet.
He died the next July during a training exercise when he fell from a plane flying 500 feet over Louisiana, apparently because he had failed to buckle his seat belt.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Purroy Mitchel was sworn in as mayor in 1913. He said he had carried a gun since Mayor William Gaynor was shot in '10. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL THOMPSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); FIREARMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); DEATHS (68%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); NATIVE AMERICANS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (51%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



933 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Posts a Profit and Agrees to Raise Its Capital Reserves

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
8:17 p.m. | Updated
FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest bank, moved Monday to address criticism that it has too thin a cushion against risk, announcing that it planned to issue $3.65 billion in new stock to increase its capital reserves.
The bank had earlier resisted the move, which was first booed and then cheered by the stock market. The company also said that its first-quarter profit rose as cost-cutting offset a decline in revenue from investment banking. 
Since the 2008 financial crisis, banks have been under intense pressure from regulators to raise capital so they are better able to absorb shocks. Deutsche Bank has faced criticism for having too little capital compared with other banks its size.
The bank had been reluctant to issue new shares, which dilutes the value of existing equity, and instead sought to raise the ratio of capital to money at risk by selling assets or other measures. The bank did not immediately explain its change of course, but it is becoming increasingly clear that banks throughout Europe have little choice but to take steps designed to prevent future financial crises. Shareholders of Commerzbank, Germany's second-largest bank, backed plans earlier this month to issue new shares.
''Banking has to become boring again,'' Rüdiger Filbry, director of the German banking practice at the Boston Consulting Group, said during a meeting with reporters Monday, referring to the industry in general. ''We expect significantly lower profits than we have seen in the past.''
Deutsche Bank portrayed the share sale as the logical next step in a campaign to increase capital that began last year and has already made the bank safer. ''Deutsche Bank ranks today amongst the best-capitalized banks in the world in our global peer group,'' Jürgen Fitschen and Anshu Jain, co-chief executives of the bank, said in a statement.
Deutsche Bank, which has large operations in the United States, may also have been reacting to pressure from the Federal Reserve. The Fed has pressed foreign lenders to hold more capital at their local operating units to make sure that the American operations have the financial strength to absorb losses.
Banks also face a deadline to meet new global standards known as Basel III, which began taking effect this year. Deutsche Bank said the share sale and other measures would raise the ratio of capital to assets, as defined by the new rules, to 9.5 percent from 8.8 percent at the end of the quarter. That is comfortably above capital requirements that are being phased in through the beginning of 2019.
Deutsche Bank executives had earlier grumbled about the new rules, saying they were unnecessarily restrictive. Stefan Krause, the bank's chief financial officer, said in a call with analysts in January that the rules ''were really not very helpful in terms of helping global financial markets.''
On Monday, however, the bank said that it would issue 2.8 billion euros in new shares. The sale will increase the number of existing shares by about 10 percent and could reduce the size of the dividend that shareholders would otherwise receive. Deutsche Bank said it would sell the shares privately to institutional investors and would not sell them publicly.
Deutsche Bank shares fell about 2 percent in trading in New York before recovering and finishing up 3.7 percent, at $43.85.
Proponents of bigger capital buffers argue that they will ultimately benefit banks because the lenders will pay a lower risk premium to raise money on capital markets.
While Deutsche Bank avoided a direct government bailout -- one of the few large German banks to do so -- it continues to cope with fallout from the financial crisis as well as numerous legal scandals.
Those include a tax evasion inquiry that led to a raid on company headquarters in late 2012 involving hundreds of police officers who surrounded the bank's high-rise headquarters in Frankfurt. Executives have also acknowledged that the bank could face additional lawsuits related to its sale of securities tied to the United States subprime mortgage market.
The German central bank is also said to be looking into accusations that Deutsche Bank hid billions of dollars in losses to avoid a potential bailout during the financial crisis. The investigation stems from accusations that Deutsche Bank understated the value of credit derivatives positions beginning in 2007 that were worth as much as $130 billion in so-called notional terms.
The bank has also been ensnared by the global investigation into rate manipulation. Last month, Deutsche Bank said it allocated an additional 600 million euros ($775 million) to cover its legal costs, a move that reduced its pretax profit for 2012 by the same amount.
News of the share sale initially overshadowed the bank's earnings report. Net profit rose to 1.66 billion euros ($2.16 billion), up nearly 18 percent from 1.41 billion euros in the period a year earlier, Deutsche Bank said in announcing earnings a day earlier than previously scheduled.
Mr. Fitschen and Mr. Jain said in a statement that the earnings report ''reflects the strength of our franchise in the face of continued regulatory challenges and cost efficiencies arising from our operational excellence program.''
Since taking over the bank last year, the two leaders have promised to cut back on risk-taking and address what they acknowledged were ethical lapses in the past. The bank said on Monday that it had reduced its assets, the total amount of money at risk, to 325 billion euros ($423 billion) at the end of the first quarter compared with 334 billion euros ($435 billion) at the end of 2012.
Much of the increase in profit came from cost-cutting. Deutsche Bank said it cut expenses not including interest by 370 million euros, to 6.6 billion euros.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deutsche Bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. The bank said net profit in the first quarter was $2.16 billion, up nearly 18 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); COMMERZBANK AG (90%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); CZB (LSE) (90%); CBK (FRA) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



934 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Preschool Financing Declined, Study Finds

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
State financing for preschool fell by more than $548 million, or close to 10 percent, in the 2011-12 school year, the largest annual drop in a decade, according to a report released Monday. 
''The State of Preschool,'' released by the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University, also showed that enrollment in state-financed preschool has stagnated at about 28 percent of 4-year-olds and 4 percent of 3-year-olds.
The decline in financing worked out to about $400 per child. Of the 40 states that offer state-subsidized preschool, 27 states reduced per-child funds in 2011-12. The overall financing figures were adjusted for inflation.
W. Steven Barnett, director of the institute and lead author of the report, described the preschool situation as ''a state of emergency.''
The report, which has been released annually since 2002, came a few weeks after President Obama outlined a plan to finance preschool for all 4-year-olds from low- or moderate-income families. The plan, which would cost $66 billion over 10 years, would be paid for by raising federal cigarette taxes to $1.95 from $1.01 per pack.
At a news conference in Washington to unveil the report, Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, said children from low-income families start kindergarten an average of 12 to 14 months behind their wealthier peers in language development and pre-reading skills. ''That is morally and educationally unacceptable,'' he said. ''And from a long-term economic competitiveness standpoint, it is just plain dumb.''
Over the decade, state financing per child has fallen more than $1,100 since 2001-02, though overall financing increased 48 percent over the same period. Michael J. Petrilli, executive vice president at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, an education policy group, said the figures reflected an expansion in enrollment.
''This is a policy choice we're making,'' Mr. Petrilli said, ''which is to spread the money around to lots of kids instead of targeting it on the neediest kids.''
The report noted that quality standards for preschool programs had slipped over the past year. Out of the 40 states that provide state--financed preschool, only four states and one program in Louisiana met 10 benchmarks set by the institute.
Given that research showing long-term benefits of early education come from studies of high quality programs, Kris Perry, executive director of the First Five Years Fund, an advocate of early education for disadvantaged children, said she was particularly concerned. ''We really should not be tolerating publicly subsidized care that is not quality,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



935 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Increase 0.2%, And Spending Matches

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Americans continued to spend more in March while their incomes grew, providing further evidence that consumers are shaking off higher Social Security taxes that took effect on Jan. 1. 
The Commerce Department said on Monday that consumer spending rose 0.2 percent in March from February. That followed an increase of 0.7 percent in February and 0.3 percent in January.
Income increased 0.2 percent last month and 1.1 percent in February. After-tax income also rose 0.2 percent in March.
Higher income has helped offset the end of a two-year Social Security tax holiday, during which payroll taxes for workers were reduced by two percentage points. On Friday, the government said that consumer spending rose from January through March at the fastest pace in more than two years.
''The consumer is doing reasonably well,'' Joseph A. LaVorgna, an economist at Deutsche Bank, said in a note to clients.
Spending on services drove the March increase. That was partly because of an unseasonably cold March, which required Americans to pay more to heat their homes.
Higher spending on utilities does not signal consumer confidence as purchases of household goods, like appliances and furniture, typically do. And other reports suggest consumers are starting to feel the impact of the tax increase. Sales at retail stores and restaurants fell in March by the most in nine months.
The payroll tax increase has reduced take-home pay for nearly all Americans. A person earning $50,000 a year will have about $1,000 less to spend this year. A household with two highly paid workers will have up to $4,500 less.
The tax bite may slow consumer spending and economic growth in the April-June quarter. Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of economic activity.
Other trends may reduce the impact of the taxes this year. Consumers have cut back on debt, while rising home values and stock prices have increased household wealth.
In addition, the price of gasoline has declined, leaving consumers with more money to spend on other things. The national average price per gallon has fallen by 29 cents since Feb. 27 to $3.50.
On Friday, the Commerce Department said the economy expanded 2.5 percent at an annual rate in the January-March quarter. That was a solid improvement on the 0.4 percent growth recorded in the fourth quarter. Growth was buoyed by the large increase in consumer spending.
In a healthy economy, with unemployment between 5 and 6 percent, economic growth of 2.5 percent or 3 percent would be considered healthy. But the United States has not been able to maintain that pace since the recession ended nearly four years ago. Amid a struggling recovery, with joblessness at 7.6 percent, the economy has not grown fast enough to create jobs to reduce unemployment.
Since the recession officially ended in June 2009, growth has been weaker than usual after a severe downturn. The economy expanded just 2.4 percent in 2010, 1.8 percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A shopper in Chicago in March, when consumer spending, income and after-tax income rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.
 Personal Income and Spending (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); RETAILERS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



936 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Media; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: The Economist Looks to Colleges for New Readers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The Economist magazine is headed to campuses around the country to encourage students, teachers, professors and others in the academic community to become readers.
An effort that is to begin on Monday will carry the theme ''Dare 2 Go Deep With The Economist'' -- the numeral, presumably, echoing how so many members of the intended audience use shorthand when they communicate online and on mobile devices.
Indeed, digital media is the primary way that The Economist and its new advertising agency, Atmosphere Proximity in New York, intend to disseminate the campaign, which has a budget of just under $1 million. The ads will urge turning to The Economist for a deeper, more thorough understanding of what goes on in the world. 
The centerpiece of the effort will be a special Web site, or microsite, dare2godeep.com, with content that includes video clips featuring comedians like J.B. Smoove, interactive games, information about The Economist and an offer for a free, two-week digital subscription.
Social media will also play a major role in the effort, including a presence on Twitter that includes an account with the handle @Dare2GoDeep and a hashtag, #IgoDeep.
The decision to reach out within campuses came from research that suggests many people start to read The Economist ''after it's recommended by a mentor, a professor, a parent,'' said Paul Rossi, managing director for the Economist Group and executive vice president for the Americas, who is based in New York.
Getting issues of the magazine -- in print or digital format -- in the hands of potential readers who are at a life stage where they are ''open to new habits, new ideas,'' he added, represents an opportunity to recruit them ''for life, in many cases.''
An effort aimed at university halls also fits in with the broader subscriber outreach typically done by The Economist, Mr. Rossi said, which is directed at ''the worldly, intellectually curious.''
Anyone miffed at being excluded from the target audience for the campaign should not be, he added, because there are plans for an effort ''aiming at a more general population later in the year.''
The decision in November by The Economist to hire Atmosphere Proximity was a signal that whatever campaign was to come would be digital-centric because the agency specializes in digital marketing.
''This is a great opportunity to use the dynamics driving the sound-bite culture'' like social media ''to get people to engage deeper and connect with the premium content of The Economist,'' said Andreas Combuechen, chairman and chief executive at Atmosphere Proximity.
Atmosphere Proximity is part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. BBDO New York previously created campaigns for The Economist that ran in the United States. Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO, based in London, continues to create ads for The Economist that appear in Britain and Europe.
That the free, two-week subscription being offered is digital is no accident. The Economist is keen on increasing its circulation in nonprint venues.
According to data provided by Mr. Rossi, the magazine's total worldwide circulation of 1,558,119 is composed of 1,455,261 print copies and 102,858 digital copies. North America accounts for 897,849 of the total worldwide circulation, and the breakout there is 831,978 print copies and 65,871 digital copies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PAYWALLS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS.BBDO LTD (50%); BBDO NEW YORK (50%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



937 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: As Jobs Lag, Fed Is Viewed As Unlikely To Do More

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve is making modest progress in its push to reduce the unemployment rate. But that is not the jobs goal Congress actually established for the Fed. The central bank is supposed to be maximizing employment. And on that front, it is not making progress.
The share of American adults with jobs has hovered around 58.5 percent for more than three years, roughly five percentage points below its prerecession peak. 
Job creation has merely kept pace with population growth. The unemployment rate, now 7.6 percent, has fallen mostly because people stopped looking for work.
There is little sign, however, that Fed officials are considering an expansion of their four-year-old stimulus campaign as the Fed's policy-making committee prepares to convene Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington.
''We are seeing an impact from our policies,'' Eric S. Rosengren, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston president, said in a recent interview. But ''I think we're pushing the interest-sensitive sector about as far as we're going to be able to push it at this time.''
Fed officials backed away from talk of an early retreat from the current program of asset purchases -- $85 billion a month in Treasury and mortgage-backed securities -- after economic growth and inflation both rose more slowly than expected in the first quarter.
The Fed's preferred inflation gauge rose 1.2 percent, below its 2 percent target. But that is as far as the pendulum has swung.
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his allies point to increased sales of homes and autos and the rising stock market as evidence that the asset purchases are working. ''After reviewing the efficacy and costs of this program, I have concluded that the efficacy has been as high or higher than I expected at the onset of the program and the costs the same or lower,'' William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in a recent speech.
But there are several reasons officials remain reluctant to do more. The benefits of additional asset purchases appear modest, at best. The consequences of buying more bonds are uncertain. And officials are frustrated that their monetary policy is being forced to play a role that most economists and Fed officials say could be more easily and effectively performed by fiscal policy.
Another reason the Fed is not embracing new measures is that it already has tied the duration of low interest rates to the unemployment rate. The Fed said in December that it intended to hold interest rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6.5 percent, provided that inflation remained under control. The theory is that the economy will get as much stimulus as it needs.
''Communications from Fed leadership cast some doubt on the appetite of the key policy makers for increasing the monthly flow of purchases,'' Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, wrote in an analysis of the coming meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. ''If the F.O.M.C. were to increase total purchases, they would prefer to do so by lengthening the time period over which they purchase $85 billion per month, rather than by increasing the monthly pace of those purchases.''
The Fed has good reasons for focusing on the unemployment rate. Historically, as people looking for jobs find work, people sitting at home start looking, so that total employment increases as the unemployment rate declines.
But recent research by two Fed economists suggests the current plan will not work if the Fed begins to reduce its efforts when unemployment falls below 6.5 percent, because that is not low enough to draw people into the job market.
The economists, Christopher J. Erceg and Andrew T. Levin, both on leave at the International Monetary Fund, calculated that the number of people who wanted jobs but were not looking now exceeded the number actively searching.
''It's safe to ignore the participation rate during normal times,'' Mr. Levin said earlier this month at a conference held by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, where the paper was presented. ''Our message is that it may not be safe to ignore it now.''
They argued that the Fed should continue its stimulus campaign until those people were drawn back into the job market, and were able to find jobs -- in other words, that the Fed should focus on employment rather than unemployment.
The implication is that the Fed should hold interest rates near zero even after the unemployment rate returns to a more normal level and even if inflation starts to rise.
Some Fed officials are skeptical of such arguments. James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, warned in a presentation earlier this month that the Fed should not increase its efforts to reduce unemployment if the price is higher inflation.
''Such an approach may be highly counterproductive,'' he said, citing economic simulations that yielded better outcomes when the Fed maintained its focus on stabilizing the annual rate of inflation at about 2 percent.
Fed officials raise other doubts. Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said in a recent interview that economists understood the relationship between the unemployment rate and inflation, allowing for careful calibration of Fed policy. By contrast, he noted, it would be more difficult to set a target for labor force participation because of demographic changes, like the growing share of retirees.
Still, Mr. Kocherlakota said, the 6.5 percent unemployment threshold is too high. He wants to reduce it to 5.5 percent.
Other officials say that they, too, might favor more accommodation if declines in the unemployment rate are not matched by a rising employment rate.
''We do not want to get to 6.5 percent just by having people pull out of the labor force,'' Mr. Rosengren of the Boston Fed said. ''We want to get to 6.5 because employment is expanding and we're adding jobs faster than labor force growth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, cites increased home and car sales as evidence that asset purchases are working. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Eric S. Rosengren, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, questioned how much more Fed stimulus could accomplish. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT GREENHOUSE/THE BOSTON GLOBE) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



938 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Media; Pg. 

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: After Decades, Gillette and BBDO Ad Agency Part Ways

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
One of the longest lasting relationships on Madison Avenue, between the Gillette men's grooming brand and the BBDO advertising agency, is coming to an end.
Procter & Gamble, which acquired Gillette in 2005, said on Monday that it would shift the duties for creating advertising campaigns for the Gillette brand that appear in countries around the world to Grey from BBDO Worldwide. 
Procter spends hundreds of millions of dollars each year to advertise the Gillette line of men's grooming products, including the familiar shaving items like razors and blades. About $150 million a year of that spending takes place in the United States.
BBDO's relationship with Gillette dates to 1966, when it acquired an agency named Clyde Maxon, which worked on Gillette ads beginning in the 1930s and onward. BBDO helped Gillette introduce products like the Atra, Mach 3 and Fusion razors and blades, and it coined the slogan ''The best a man can get'' for Gillette in 1989.
The decision by Procter executives to move the account came after a seven-month review that had been narrowed to BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, and two other finalists: Grey, part of the Grey Group division of WPP; and Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.
The review began with five agencies, the three finalists along with Publicis Worldwide, also part of Publicis, and Wieden & Kennedy.
All five agencies already work for Procter, meaning, in industry parlance, that they are roster agencies for the company. For instance, BBDO also handles assignments for Procter like Braun shavers, the Art of Shaving retail chain and the Venus line of women's shaving products; those accounts are not affected by the departure of the Gillette account.
Grey adds Gillette to a list of Procter brands for which it creates ads that includes Febreze and Pantene. In a memo to employees, James R. Heekin, chairman and chief executive at the Grey Group, called the decision ''sensational news'' and a ''vote of confidence in Grey from our longtime partner, P.&G.''
The change in the status of the Gillette account came as Procter was re-evaluating various aspects of its advertising, marketing and promotional plans during a challenging period for the company. In a statement on Monday, Procter said the review had been spurred by a desire ''to generate fresh thinking and uncover new approaches to connecting with men.''
The sluggish economies in many countries, including the United States, mean that consumers are thinking twice before buying even the everyday household staples in which Procter specializes. And Procter has had problems in pricing products, as some brands were being perceived as too expensive for the current economic climate.
Recently the company has run ads playing up the value of its products as well as introducing lower-price versions of premium-price products like Bounty towels and Puffs tissues.
In the case of Gillette, the company has resumed ads for the Mach 3 men's shaving line, which was superseded by the more expensive Fusion men's shaving line. And some ads for Fusion have talked about how the blades may not be as expensive as they seem if shoppers consider how long each blade can last.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MEN (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (55%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



939 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Rest in Trial of a Philadelphia Abortion Doctor Charged With Murder

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA -- They are known as Baby Boy A, Baby C, Baby D and Baby E, all of whom prosecutors call murdered children and the defense calls aborted fetuses -- the very difference in language encapsulating why anti-abortion advocates are so passionate about drawing attention to the trial of Dr. Kermit Gosnell, which wrapped up here on Monday with summations by both sides.
In five weeks of testimony, jurors were told that Dr. Gosnell, 72, had performed late-term abortions by injecting a drug to stop the heart of the fetus, but that when one jerked an arm, cried or drew breath outside the womb, its spinal cord was cut with surgical scissors.
To anti-abortion leaders, the accounts have the power to break through decades of hardened positions in the abortion wars, not just because of the graphic details but because they raise the philosophical issue of why an abortion procedure performed in utero is legal, but a similar act a few minutes later, outside the womb, is considered homicide. 
The distinction ''is maybe a 15-minute or half-hour time frame and 10 inches of physical space,'' said Michael Geer, the president of the Pennsylvania Family Institute, an anti-abortion group. ''I think it's going to resurrect a debate about the humanity of the unborn child.''
Abortion rights groups have a very different view. They say that Dr. Gosnell was a rogue practitioner, and that if abortion is further restricted, more women will be driven to clinics like his, which prosecutors called a ''house of horrors.''
Jay Sekulow, the chief counsel of the American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative legal organization in Washington, said, ''This case in the end is going to be viewed as monumental, no matter what the verdict is.''
Last week, Judge Jeffrey P. Minehart of the Court of Common Pleas threw out three of seven first-degree murder charges against Dr. Gosnell. The doctor's defense lawyer, Jack J. McMahon, argued Monday that none of the remaining four cases had resulted in live births.
Because the women were given injections of the drug digoxin, which causes ''fetal demise,'' Mr. McMahon argued, any postdelivery movements were involuntary spasms.
''Every single piece of scientific evidence in this case has shown stillbirth,'' he said.
But Edward Cameron, an assistant district attorney, countered that testimony showed Dr. Gosnell did not always use digoxin and that it did not always work as intended. He quoted a former clinic worker with medical school training but no doctor's license who testified that the drug ''wasn't giving the desired effect, the heart was always beating.''
The prosecutor cited Pennsylvania law stating that if a baby delivered during an abortion ''shows any sign of life, it's considered alive -- a heartbeat, breathing, a cry, movement.''
The jury will now make that determination in the cases, including that of Baby Boy A, whom clinic workers testified Dr. Gosnell joked was big enough ''to walk me home.''
Baby D, a clinic worker testified, was delivered into a toilet by a woman waiting for Dr. Gosnell and it appeared to make swimming motions before one of the doctor's assistants pulled it out and cut its neck.
Two workers said they heard Baby E crying before Dr. Gosnell cut its spine with scissors. The prosecutor quoted a worker: ''It made noises, a whine like my baby.''
Mr. McMahon also cited the trial testimony, in which the clinic worker acknowledged she did not know for sure if Baby E was born alive. Eight workers from the clinic, the Women's Medical Society in West Philadelphia, have pleaded guilty to lesser charges in the case, including Dr. Gosnell's wife, Pearl, a cosmetologist who helped perform abortions.
If convicted, Dr. Gosnell could face the death penalty.
The case became a cause célèbre when anti-abortion activists complained that the mainstream news media were ignoring it for ideological reasons. It has since been widely covered, and every seat in the courtroom was taken on Monday.
Anti-abortion campaigners have seized on the trial because it highlights late-term abortions performed after fetal viability. The same public opinion polls that for decades have shown that a majority of Americans support abortion also show that most of them want it banned in certain cases.
Abortion opponents have leveraged these mixed feelings in recent years to lobby at the state level to restrict the procedure. Nine states have banned most abortions beyond 20 weeks of pregnancy. Last month, two states went further: Arkansas banned abortion after 12 weeks and North Dakota beyond about 6 weeks, when a fetal heartbeat is ''detectable.'' Abortion rights groups said both limits would be found unconstitutional in federal court.
Though late-term abortions are central to the Gosnell case, they are extremely rare. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 92 percent of abortions are performed before 14 weeks, with 1.3 percent beyond 20 weeks.
''No woman carries their child to six, seven, eight months and then one day decides they don't want to become a parent,'' said Ilyse Hogue, the president of Naral Pro-Choice America. ''These are terrible, tragic situations where families have to make difficult choices with their doctors. I think most Americans believe that's where they belong.''
To abortion rights groups, if abortion is further restricted, desperate women will be forced to seek providers like Dr. Gosnell, who is also accused of performing 24 abortions beyond 24 weeks of pregnancy, the limit in Pennsylvania.
''Restrictions really work to hinder access to safe abortion,'' said Dayle Steinberg, the president of Planned Parenthood Southeastern Pennsylvania. ''It only increases the number of economically disadvantaged women who find themselves in extreme circumstances and they turn to unsafe options for care.''
Dr. Gosnell is also accused of third-degree murder in the death of a 41-year-old patient from Virginia, who visited his clinic after being turned away by three clinics closer to her home, according to testimony by a daughter of the woman.
Mr. McMahon said Dr. Gosnell's staff members who pleaded guilty did so out of fear of the district attorney's office, which he accused of creating ''a tsunami of hype'' in a grand jury report and in the news media about Dr. Gosnell's practices. To counter that, he showed slides of a waiting room, hallway and procedure rooms at the defunct clinic that looked scrubbed and clean.
The prosecution, for its turn, rolled in a filthy procedure table and broken equipment removed from the clinic. Mr. Cameron, the assistant district attorney, brandished a stained ultrasound probe with unconcealed disgust.
The jury was expected to begin deliberations on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Kermit Gosnell faces four counts of first-degree murder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILADELPHIA POLICE DEPARTMENT, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (96%); MURDER (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTER FOR LAW & JUSTICE (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



940 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Park Deals Chip Away At City's Gems

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
Sheik Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan is a smart-looking fellow, whether clad in Burberry blue or desert white.
And he is apparently a falcon-eyed businessman, as this Abu Dhabi sheik seems about to persuade New York City officials to part with 13 precious acres of parkland for the not-so-princely sum of $1 per year, according to Crain's New York. In exchange, he will pay for a $340 million stadium for his soon-to-be-acquired Major League Soccer team.
In this way, the city chips away at one of its workaday gems, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. 
A sylvan strand between parkways and highways, the busiest of Queens's parks already bears the weight of several stadiums and parking lots.
Javier Valdes is a director of Make the Road New York, a nonprofit group that works to empower the hundreds of thousands of working-class and poor residents of Queens. The group expects to fight for paid sick days and better wages. It does not expect to battle to preserve the little green space available to the densely packed neighborhoods.
''We call this park the 'pulmones' of Queens, the lungs of the city,'' he says. ''Why are we giving our land away to an oil tycoon?''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, as is his wont, wrinkles his nose at such talk. He is all but tripping over himself in his dash for a mayoral legacy. This corner of Flushing Meadows Park, he said recently, ''isn't very much and isn't in good shape.'' Where to start?
Flushing Meadows, with its tree-lined walking boulevards like Avenue of Progress and Avenue of Industry, reflects the optimism of an earlier age. Its hardscrabble stretches of dirt and rock, its cracked asphalt and dead-limbed trees and the fence-ringed pond reflect the neglect common to parks unaccompanied by hedge fund benefactors.
Our parks make manifest our primal economic divisions. The High Line in Chelsea is an elegant beauty to walk, and its 6.7 acres do wonders for those owners of condominiums whose doors open onto it. Its staffing would please Marie Antoinette; its work force of about 70 includes 3 curators and 10 rangers.
The 1,255-acre Flushing Meadows Park, according to a representative, has 19 full-time workers.
The forces now brought to bear on this homely beauty of a park are impressive. John H. Alschuler Jr., a patrician sort, serves as chairman of the High Line park. In his day job, he is chairman of HR&A Advisors, which pulled in a cool $1.3 million lobbying fee for its efforts to plop that stadium in Flushing Meadows.
Major League Soccer spent more than $2 million last year on lobbyists.
And all of this, of course, reckons without our royal sheik, whose nation inherited roughly 9 percent of the world's oil reserves. He is a munificent man; he once flew in Jay-Z and Kanye West for his niece's 16th birthday.
Talk of such excess leaves the lobbyist class giddy. What sum might this man lavish to ensure that the parkland comes unencumbered by the requirement to pay a sales tax?
Sheik Mansour has walked this road before. He bought a second-tier soccer team in Manchester, England, and administered a shower of cash. As The Guardian noted, he built training facilities, smart shops and huge awnings so that no ticket holder need ever feel the rain.
He put on loud concerts on the days the stadium sat empty.
City economic development officials mumble that they won't allow this in Flushing Meadows. The same officials promised affordable housing in nearby Willets Point, before noting that the start date for that was 2025, maybe.
''All the parts are moving until we've actually reached an agreement,'' a mayoral spokesman says.
Headaches loom, even for a master builder. The proposed stadium site sits atop federal wetlands and in a flood zone. Dig down five feet and you're backstroking in the ancient currents of the Flushing River.
Major League Soccer officials talk of building a berm -- read ''vast mound of dirt'' -- and placing the stadium atop that. And they propose building a new park on the former Flushing Airport, which sits miles to the northeast and is accessible only by car.
So the fight could be long, which is appropriate when a mayor proposes selling off a greensward inheritance. The Rev. Darrell DaCosta, pastor of St. Paul the Apostle Catholic Church in Corona, has a congregation whose work weeks are arduous. They are drawn as if by homing beacon to the park.
''It's in a natural setting that you learn the value of God's creation,'' he notes. ''Everything in New York can't be bought and sold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, men playing near the place in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens where Sheik Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan, above, hopes to build a soccer stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SOCCER (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); LOBBYING (64%); SICK LEAVE (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



941 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Europe Bans Pesticides Thought to Be Hurting Bees

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- The European Commission will enact a two-year ban on a class of pesticides thought to be harming global bee populations, the European Union's health commissioner said Monday.
''I pledge to do my utmost to ensure that our bees, which are so vital to our ecosystem and contribute over &#x20ac;22 billion annually to European agriculture, are protected,'' Tonio Borg said in a statement from Brussels, where the commission is based.
Mr. Borg made the announcement after representatives of the 27 E.U. member states failed for the second time in two months to reach a binding agreement on a proposal to ban the pesticides, known as neonicotinoids. The commission had proposed the ban after the European Food Safety Authority recommended in January that use of the pesticides be restricted until scientists determined whether they were contributing to a die-off in bee colonies. 
Though a simple majority of 15 nations backed the measure in committee Monday, it failed to gain the required ''qualified majority,'' which takes into account the relative weight of populations. Britain, which abstained last time, opposed the measure this time. Germany, which also abstained last month, backed it. France and Poland, two of Europe's largest farming nations, supported it.
Under E.U. rules, Mr. Borg has the authority to move ahead on his own in such cases, as his predecessor, John Dalli, did in 2010, controversially allowing the cultivation of genetically modified potatoes.
Worldwide sales of the pesticides total in the billions of dollars. Two companies that make them in Europe, the German giant Bayer CropScience and Syngenta, a Swiss biochemical company, have said they were willing to finance additional research, but that the current data do not justify a ban.
''The proposal is based on poor science and ignores a wealth of evidence from the field that these pesticides do not damage the health of bees,'' John Atkin, Syngenta's chief operating officer, said Monday in a statement. ''Instead of banning these products, the commission should now take the opportunity to address the real reasons for bee health decline: disease, viruses and loss of habitat and nutrition.''
Bayer CropScience called the commission's plan ''a setback for technology, innovation and sustainability,'' and warned of ''crop yield losses, reduced food quality and loss of competitiveness for European agriculture.''
Europe's struggle with the question of neonicotinoids and bee health is being closely watched in the United States, where the pesticides are in wide use, and where a bee die-off over the past winter appears to have been one of the worst ever. Beekeepers and environmentalists are suing the Environmental Protection Agency over its approval of the products, which they claim were allowed on the market with inadequate review.
Neonicotinoids are among the world's most effective and widely used insecticides, and there is significant disagreement as to how much -- if at all -- they are contributing to the crisis that has devastated global wild and domesticated bee populations.
A plant or seed treated with such a chemical incorporates it into its tissues as it grows, making it lethal to insects that bore into a stem or nibble a leaf. The neonicotinoids are also present in pollen and nectar, and two recent studies have suggested that even sublethal doses might hurt bees.
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization notes that 71 of the 100 crops that provide 90 percent of human food are pollinated by bees. Estimates of the value to those crops run to as much as $200 billion annually.
While there are other natural pollinators, including wild bees and flies, current agricultural practices would be impossible without honeybees, and honeybee populations have shrunk alarmingly over the last decade. In the United States, domesticated bee populations are at a 50-year low and falling, and the story is much the same in other countries. Scientists say several factors, including varroa mites and viruses, have contributed to the decline.
In some cases, commercial beekeeping operations are decimated in a matter of days as workers disappear, a phenomenon scientists have named Colony Collapse Disorder. So badly has the bee population been diminished that in California, the important almond crop now requires more than one-third of all the domesticated bees in the United States for pollination.
Some scientists fear that if the neonicotinoids are banned the chemicals that replace them could be worse. But even those who question the linkage between the pesticides and bee deaths say the current state of knowledge is inadequate and that more study is needed.
Under the European measures, which take effect Dec. 1, there will be sharp restrictions on three neonicotinoid pesticides -- clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiametoxam -- for treating seeds, soil and leaves on flowering crops attractive to bees, like corn, sunflowers and rapeseed, the source of canola oil. The products may still be used on crops like winter wheat for which the danger to bees is deemed to be small. Use by home gardeners will be prohibited.
The two-year ban will allow commission officials to re-examine the scientific studies that were submitted for approval of the pesticides in the first place and ''to take into account relevant scientific and technical developments.''
''This gives bees a bit of breathing space to recover,'' said Paul de Zylva, an environmental campaigner in London with Friends of the Earth. The time should be used to come up with a comprehensive plan to address the bee crisis, he said, with civil organizations, governments, farmers and companies working together.
The European ban ''doesn't solve all the problems, though, we never said it did,'' Mr. de Zylva added. ''You've got to look at all the problems facing bees, it's not just pesticides.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anne Van Eeckhout calmed bees recently near Brussels. Honeybees, which are critical to pollination, have declined worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES LOGGHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Activists posing as beekeepers protested at the European Commission in Brussels on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS LENOIR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PESTICIDES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENTOMOLOGY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); APICULTURE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (70%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SYNGENTA AG (53%); BAYER CROPSCIENCE AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN FOOD SAFETY AUTHORITY (56%)

TICKER: SYT (NYSE) (53%); SYNN (SWX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (53%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



942 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: THE ART OF COLLECTING; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: As Money Props Up Art World, Prospects Are Mixed

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
Whether he intended it or not, or even realizes it, Ben S. Bernanke has become a patron of the arts.
Much of the several trillion dollars printed at the behest of the U.S. Federal Reserve chairman -- and trillions more in other currencies printed by his peers at central banks around the world -- has made its way into stock and bond markets over the past few years. But some of that money has also helped to prop up the art market, specialists in the field say, as demand for certain categories reported by auction houses demonstrates: sales of Old Masters, postwar and contemporary, Impressionist, modern and Chinese works at Christie's and Sotheby's rose 5.9 percent last year, to $6.64 billion.
''What's driving the art market globally is that certain people have a lot of liquidity and are looking for places to put it,'' said Suzanne Gyorgy, head of Citi Art Advisory, a service of Citigroup's private bank. ''For many people art is an interesting alternative investment. It's seen as a hedge against inflation and a safe haven in the high end of the market.'' 
The Art & Finance Report 2013, a collaboration between the accounting firm Deloitte and ArtTactic, a market research company, similarly highlighted inflation fears and government measures to stimulate economic growth to partially explain rising investment in art, including at auction. It estimated that assets in art investment funds rose 69 percent last year, to $1.62 billion worldwide.
Whether the trend persists and yields profits for the new wave of investors is hard to predict. The combination of lingering economic uncertainty and freshly printed money has created a mixed outlook for art, specialists say.
While new buyers are entering the market, particularly Americans, others who had helped support it, mainly from emerging economies, are pulling back. The result is a bifurcated market, with some categories, notably contemporary art and Impressionism, experiencing feverish demand and fetching fantastic sums, and activity elsewhere subdued.
''Buyers need to go in realizing that they're unlikely to get things at auction within the estimate'' in the hotter niches, Ms. Gyorgy cautioned. ''People need to be prepared for that; some say they never had a chance to put the paddle up. It's not true for every sector or for Grade B and C works. That's not a bad sign. It's just that there are many markets that make up the art market.''
Whatever support certain segments may be receiving from injections of hot money, the broader market seems to be cooling off. The European Fine Art Foundation estimates that global sales of art and antiques fell 7 percent last year, to &#x20ac;43 billion, or $56 billion.
Prices were down, too. The Mei Moses World All Art Index, which is based on prices of works sold multiple times at auction, though not all in the same year, was down 3.3 percent in 2012, a performance that ''puts into question the continued recovery of the worldwide auction art market,'' according to a report by Beautiful Asset Advisors, the company that compiles the index.
Even with the decline, the index produced a compound annual return of 7.4 percent in the 10 years through 2012. But the firm also points out that the index is off to a weak start this year, falling an additional 5.8 percent in the first quarter.
Jeff Rabin, a principal and co-founder of Artvest Partners, a New York advisory service, warns that the market this year could shape up to be more like the past months than the past few years.
He contends that the market hit a sweet spot and has begun to veer away from it.
''We anticipate a further drop in 2013,'' he said. ''We've seen an incredible run in art sales in the last decade, partly due to China and Russia joining the world economy and uncertainty in the financial markets, which led people to seek stores of value like gold and art. I think that has run its course.''
Any trend reversal could be obscured by the dazzling sums that a small fraction of items command. Mr. Rabin observes, however, that these are becoming fewer and farther between in the exhausted market, and he expects fewer, still, to turn up at auction.
''We'll continue to see record prices on certain works, but a lot of them will trade privately,'' he said. ''The auction market is finding it more difficult to get great property, so we could see a drop in how much trades at auction versus privately.''
For experienced and novice collectors who do not want to go toe to toe and paddle to paddle with deep-pocketed investors when premium works come up for sale, the lackluster market conditions could prove beneficial.
''There will be tremendous opportunities to own works of certain periods and artists in coming years,'' Mr. Rabin said. ''People who are just looking for an investment are not seeing this. There are lots of artists out there that haven't seen this explosive price appreciation.''
If investors in art funds fare poorly, Thea Westreich Wagner, founder of Thea Westreich Art Advisory Services in New York, would shed no tears. She expresses disdain for the funds and suggests that her opinion is widely shared.
''I don't think someone can work effectively in the art market by buying and selling,'' she said. Borrowing a derisive term associated with the last real estate bubble, she added: ''I know people who won't sell good works -- works in high demand -- to buyers known to be flippers. If you want to play the art market the way you play the money market, go ahead. It does not appeal to me.''
But for those who are ''trying to spend money effectively to build an intellectually and visually exciting collection,'' Ms. Westreich Wagner said, ''there are lots of ways to participate in the international art world, and all of it doesn't cost $1 million.''
There is also more help available to them. As the market has expanded, so has the collecting infrastructure, including consultants who can help collectors make better decisions -- ''there are more advisers than I can count; there's more of everything and everybody in the art world,'' Ms. Westreich Wagner said -- along with experts on appraisal, conservation, insurance, shipping, lighting, storage and tax issues.
The avenues for buying art are growing, too. Online galleries and auctions have increased greatly in popularity in recent years, though Mr. Rabin advised caution.
The online market offers ''access to all sorts of works, and you can do research,'' he said, ''but a lot of people take what they see as fact, when you can't really tell a lot about a work online. You need 'wall power,' you need to stand in front of a work of art. Also, there are issues of authenticity. You really want to know whom you're dealing with, how they vet works.''
He noted that the big auction houses, Christie's and Sotheby's, guarantee the information in their catalogs, making buyers whole if inaccuracies are discovered within five years that result in a work's value being diminished. That standard is not widespread online, he said, so ''we won't see tremendous growth until services get that right.''
When it comes to choosing what to buy, the time-tested rules still apply. Collectors are encouraged to acquire what they like, but only after acquiring as much knowledge as possible. Someone who wants to collect, not invest, is still putting up money, advisers say, and it will be better spent if they invest time to get to know the market first.
''It's not a place for the uninitiated,'' Ms. Westreich Wagner said. ''Knowledge trumps all. When you're buying a work of art, you need all sorts of information, just like when buying a house or stock. If you're a good, informed collector, you know when the price is too much because you've been following the trajectory of the artist's career.''
Accumulating knowledge is a matter of ''looking, then reading, then talking,'' she said. ''Engage with people in the community, then make your own evaluation.''
Ms. Gyorgy encourages neophytes to go to art fairs or other venues where they can find ''a lot of art in one place.'' She also advises collectors to judge works in the context of others by the artist from the same period and to check condition firsthand to see what repairs have been made rather than rely on a gallery's or auction house's condition report.
''It's a buyer-beware market,'' she said. ''If you don't do research, you could make a costly mistake. Don't take things at face value.''
Collectors also should buy the best work available within a given budget, like a good drawing or print instead of a so-so painting by the same artist, Ms. Gyorgy said. Otherwise, if the flow of money slows -- if Mr. Bernanke's support should wane, for instance -- there is a risk of being ''stuck with something of lesser quality,'' she warned. ''But if you've bought a great work, you still have something beautiful.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BONDS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (75%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); DELOITTE LLP (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



943 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Talks to Settle Wages Keep Last Lights On at Joint Korean Complex

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- All the remaining South Korean factory managers in an industrial park in North Korea returned home early Tuesday, as political tensions drove the two Koreas to sever their last economic ties.
The withdrawal of the 43 factory managers means that the Kaesong Industrial Complex, in the North Korean border town of Kaesong, will be emptied out except for seven South Koreans who will remain for a few days to sort out a dispute over unpaid wages.
When that is settled, South Korea is expected to turn off the electricity it supplies to the complex, which until now has been one of the most brightly lighted parts of North Korea, a country shrouded in darkness at night because of a severe lack of fuel. 
South Korea had planned to withdraw all 50 of its citizens from Kaesong by 5 p.m. Monday, but a dispute over the payment of some wages and taxes owed North Korea delayed their departure. In the end, 43 factory managers were allowed to cross the border shortly after midnight, while five officials and two communications technicians from the South agreed to stay on to sort out the dispute.
North Korea pulled out all of its 53,000 workers from Kaesong on April 9 in a protest against joint military exercises by the United States and South Korea that it said raised the possibility of war. It also blocked South Korean managers and supply trucks from entering the complex.
But it was not until Friday, when the North rejected a proposal for dialogue, that the South announced a decision to pull all of its 175 managers and officials, who had stayed in Kaesong hoping that the complex would reopen. Of those, 125 crossed the border on Saturday, loading as many finished products as they could carry on the trunks, seats, roofs and hoods of their cars.
The emptying out of the Kaesong complex represents a new low in inter-Korean relations. South Korea cut off all other economic ties with North Korea in 2010, blaming it for the sinking of a warship and the deaths of 46 sailors. North Korea cut off all military and Red Cross hot lines with the South last month, removing all official ties between the Koreas except for the lines of communication between their civil aviation authorities.
''When they abruptly turn a mutual agreement into bubbles like this, who in the world would be willing to invest in North Korea?'' President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said about what she called the unpredictability of the North's government during a meeting with senior officials on Monday.
Since it began operations in late 2004, the Kaesong industrial park, where South Korea ran factories with low-wage North Korean labor, had served as a symbol of Korean cooperation. But in recent years, as those ties deteriorated and the two Koreas shed other joint projects, the complex stood as the last vestige of the ''sunshine policy'' of encouraging political reconciliation through economic exchanges that the South had pursued from 1998 to 2008.
So far, the Kaesong complex is the biggest casualty in the standoff that developed after North Korea's nuclear test in February.
''The window of dialogue is still open,'' Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se of South Korea said Monday in a speech at a forum organized by his ministry and the East Asia Institute in Seoul. But he warned that if North Korea did not abandon its ''old playbook'' of stoking tensions to win economic concessions from its adversaries, ''its isolation would only deepen.'' He also called North Korea's ambition to both keep nuclear weapons and rebuild its economy a ''daydream.''
North Korea indicated that it was placing military priorities over the $90 million its Kaesong workers earned annually at the factory park.
On Saturday, the North said shutting the complex down for good would allow the North Korean military to redeploy more troops, artillery and tanks along the border just north of Seoul, the South Korean capital, ''thus opening up the route of advancing to the South.'' The building of the Kaesong complex pushed those North Korean troops away from the corridor between Kaesong and Seoul, which had served as the North Korean Army's main invasion route at the outset of the Korean War in 1950.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); POLITICS (78%); BACK PAY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (64%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



944 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Tech Companies Lead S.&P. to New High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Technology companies led the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a new closing high on Monday.
The stock market has recovered all the ground it lost over the previous two weeks, when worries over slower economic growth, falling commodity prices and disappointing quarterly earnings battered financial markets.
The S.& P. 500 index rose 11.37 points, to close at 1,593.61. The 0.7 percent increase nudged the index above its previous closing high of 1,593.36, reached on April 11. 
''The market has had a terrific run,'' said Philip Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors, noting that the S.& P. 500 is up 12 percent since the start of 2013. ''At the beginning of the year, I thought we were going to 1,660,'' he said, referring to all of 2013. ''We're only about 5 percent from that.''
A pair of economic reports encouraged buying. Wages and spending rose in the United States last month, and pending home sales hit their highest level in three years.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 106.20 points, to 14,818.75, up 0.7 percent. Microsoft and I.B.M. were among the Dow's best performers, rising more than 2 percent each. I.B.M. alone accounted for a third of the Dow's increase. The index is just 46 points below its own nominal high of 14,865 reached on April 11.
Technology's popularity on Monday was a change from earlier this month, when it lagged the rest of the market. Concerns about weak business spending and slower overseas sales have cast a shadow over big tech firms, said Marty Leclerc, the managing partner of Barrack Yard Advisors, an investment firm in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Revenue misses from I.B.M. and other big companies have highlighted the technology industry's vulnerability to the world economy. But Mr. Leclerc says he thinks companies with steady revenue and plenty of cash look appealing over the long term.
Information technology stocks rose the most of the 10 industry groups in the S.& P. on Monday, up 1.6 percent. It is the only group that remains lower over the last year, down 2 percent, against the S.&.P's gain of 14 percent.
The Nasdaq composite rose 27.76 points to 3,307.02, an increase of 0.9 percent. Apple, the biggest stock in the index, surged 3 percent to $430.12.
The number of Americans who signed contracts to buy homes reached the highest level since April 2010, according to the National Association of Realtors. Back then, a tax credit for buying houses lifted sales. In a separate report, the government said Americans' spending and income both edged up last month.
A handful of companies reported earnings on Monday. The Eaton Corporation's quarterly net income beat Wall Street estimates, helped by its acquisition of Cooper Industries, an electrical equipment supplier, though its revenue fell short. Eaton shares climbed 3 percent to $60.28.
Eaton's results followed a larger pattern this earnings season. Of the 274 companies that have turned in results, seven of 10 have beaten analysts' estimates for earnings, according to S&P Capital IQ. But when it comes to revenue, six of 10 have missed estimates. The divergence suggests companies are squeezing more profits out of cost-cutting, instead of higher sales.
McGraw-Hill, the parent company of Moody's and Standard & Poor's, surged after news that the ratings agencies had settled lawsuits dating back to the financial crisis that accused them of concealing risky investments. McGraw-Hill gained 3 percent to $53.45, while Moody's jumped 8 percent to $59.69, the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500.
In the market for government bonds, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was barely changed, falling 1/32 from Friday to 103, while its yield was even at 1.67 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%)

COMPANY: EATON CORP PLC (60%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: ETN (NYSE) (60%); FII (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (60%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (60%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



945 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Next Big Challenge for Obama's Health Care Law: Carrying It Out

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- This month, a political organization aligned with House Republicans sent an e-mail to reporters attacking President Obama's health care law.
''Young adults on parents' plan pay more,'' said the organization, the YG Network, citing a new employee benefits study. The e-mail's subject line read ''So Much for Popularity.''
Actually, the study did not show those young adults were paying more. It showed insurance companies were, because they had begun providing health coverage to those young adults, as called for under the law. 
The missive, inaccurate though it was, illustrates the immense challenge facing the Obama administration as it puts in place the most significant parts of the 2010 law. Few government initiatives reach so many corners of the American economy and society -- and have as much potential to generate trouble for the party in the White House.
Among the complex imperatives: pushing reluctant states to set up insurance marketplaces and expand Medicaid programs, keeping an eye on insurance companies as they issue new rate schedules, measuring the law's effects on small-business hiring, and coaxing healthy young people to buy coverage so the system works economically for everyone else.
Gail Wilensky, who ran Medicare and Medicaid under President George Bush and supports the new law, said that 2014, when the law will make it mandatory to have insurance, ''is going to be quite a bumpy year.''
Austan Goolsbee, a former chief economist to Mr. Obama, predicted ''a big messaging headache the whole year.''
A new example popped up last week, to the delight of Republican opponents of the law. An article by Politico reported ''high-level confidential talks about exempting lawmakers and Capitol Hill aides'' from the health law.
In fact, lawmakers said, the talks the article referred to concerned preserving the same kind of employer-subsidized health coverage for Congressional employees that workers at private companies can receive under the law. Yet the article sent White House aides and other Democrats scrambling to avoid the appearance of special treatment.
The law poses some modest potential headaches for the overall economy.
It requires, for example, that businesses with 50 or more full-time workers either offer insurance coverage or pay a penalty. Mr. Goolsbee said he would be watching whether companies around that threshold either defer hiring or shift some full-time workers to part-time jobs.
But the number of such companies is small. A vast majority of American workers are employed by larger companies that already offer coverage.
Some younger health care customers will face a significant increase in their insurance premiums, said Karen Ignagni, who leads a major health insurance trade group. That is because the law requires more comprehensive coverage than many of them now have and curbs insurers' ability to charge more for older customers, who tend to consume more services.
Yet those increases may be offset by subsidies available to lower-income customers and, for women, by rules barring insurers from charging women more.
Most significant is that those increases apply only to the small fraction of Americans who buy health insurance individually.
N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist who advised Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign, fears that some lower-income job holders will work less under the law, since their government-financed insurance subsidies will phase out at higher earning levels. But he acknowledged that it was an ''open question'' how large those effects would be.
Not large, White House economists say. And to the extent that they do happen, they would be offset by reduced marginal tax rates for others who, under current law, lose their Medicaid health coverage as they earn higher incomes.
The law's supporters also predict that workers with better health care will be more productive. Expanded coverage may ease the ''job lock'' that now prevents some workers from seeking better employment for fear of losing coverage.
Uncertainty over the law's future hung over employers and investors throughout 2012. ''It impeded the recovery,'' said the economist Mark Zandi.
But last June, the Supreme Court upheld the core of the law, and in November Mr. Obama won re-election. Going forward, Mr. Zandi said, ''it's prudent at this point to think it's all going to be a wash.''
That will not, however, ease pressure on administration officials over a gantlet of hurdles to put the provisions in place.
Fewer than half of the states have indicated that they plan to establish their own health care marketplaces, known as exchanges under the law. Washington is committed to stepping in and establishing them for states that decline to.
Only about half of the states have indicated that they will expand Medicaid under the law, a central ingredient for the goal of providing coverage to those now uninsured. Some people who acquire insurance under the law may have trouble obtaining treatment, because of a shortage of doctors and state-level ''scope of practice'' laws restricting the ability of others like nurse practitioners to step in.
Most challenging of all is persuading young, healthy Americans -- the most profitable customers for insurance companies -- to buy their ''mandated'' coverage next year, even though the penalty for not doing so is a modest $95. White House officials say this group's participation in health insurance marketplaces is vital to their success because it will offset the cost of less-healthy customers.
The political stakes in meeting these challenges are circumscribed by the long, acrimonious debate that has occurred in the nation's polarized political culture. White House strategists estimate that 9 in 10 Americans have fixed views one way or the other. They say that only personal experience with the law can move them.
Yet efforts to reach the small group of undecideds will only increase as the 2014 midterm elections draw closer. Ian Prior, a spokesman for the House Republicans' campaign committee, vowed that his party's candidates would keep hammering away at Democratic incumbents who supported the law.
''I don't think the American people want to go back,'' said Representative Steve Israel of New York, who is the chairman of the House Democrats' committee. But Democrats say they cannot afford to be passive.
''We already know that, left to its own devices, this doesn't end up in a good place,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster. ''Anyone who thinks this issue is done is fooling themselves.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MEDICAID (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); MEDICARE (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



946 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: For 'Millennials,' a Tide of Cynicism and a Partisan Gap

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Andy Welsh of Portland, Ore., was so enthusiastic about President Obama's first run for the White House that he voted absentee while spending a semester abroad in Spain. But Mr. Welsh, now 26 and an aspiring diplomat, said the gridlock in Washington has been ''a real bummer ever since.''
Katie Hermann, 29, a corporate strategist in Chicago, also supported Mr. Obama for president, but when she thinks about the state of politics in America today, she said, ''I feel slightly more discouraged than I did back when President Obama was first elected.'' 
David Durgin, 28, who is putting himself through the University of Colorado and owns a car detailing shop near Denver, did not vote for Mr. Obama and has also soured on Washington. ''There's too much fighting going on between the parties,'' he said.
These three voters -- Mr. Welsh, a registered independent; Ms. Hermann, a Democrat; and Mr. Durgin, a Republican -- reflect what political analysts see as a troubling trend: the idealism of youth is slipping away, replaced by mistrust and a growing partisan divide among voters under 30. These so-called millennials, who turned out in droves to elect Mr. Obama in 2008, are increasingly turned off by politics. Experts fear their cynicism may become permanent.
''If you are 24 years old, all you know is petty partisan politics while big issues aren't getting addressed, while the economy is still struggling,'' said Trey Grayson, director of the Institute of Politics at Harvard University, which on Tuesday will release the results of the latest in a series of polls documenting millennials' attitudes toward government. ''So you wonder whether the governing institutions of your country are up to the task.''
The Harvard survey, of more than 3,100 voters under 30, found that faith in most major institutions -- with the notable exception of the military -- has declined over the past several years. Today, only 39 percent of young voters trust the president to do the right thing, as opposed to 44 percent in 2010. Just 18 percent of voters under 30 trust Congress, compared with 25 percent in February 2010.
''The hyperpartisanship and gridlock that has befallen Washington, D.C., is having a traumatic effect not just on our nation's status at home and abroad, but on the political health of tens of millions of once (and hopefully future) idealistic young people,'' wrote John Della Volpe, the Harvard institute's polling director, in the study's conclusion.
The economy is a major reason for the disillusionment of young voters, who are saddled with student debt and worried about how to find jobs, said Kristen Soltis Anderson, who tracks young voters for the Winston Group, which advises Republican candidates. Mr. Durgin is one example; part of his upset with Washington, he said, has to do with his livelihood.
''I'm losing money,'' he said, adding, ''There's nothing positive that has happened to me in the last 12 months.''
Young voters seem disappointed with both political parties, although Ms. Anderson, the Republican pollster, said her party appears to be taking the brunt of millennials' dissatisfaction. Mr. Obama had a 52 percent approval rating in the Harvard poll -- slightly better than his approval ratings in polls of older adults nationwide -- but down from his approval rating of 58 percent in a Harvard poll of millennials in 2009.
''They are disappointed with him, yet many question the motives of Republicans even more,'' Ms. Anderson said.
She added: ''It's tough to be young these days -- the economic concerns are very great, and a lot of what you hear out of Washington is not addressing those concerns. There are a lot of questions: Does either party really have my best interest at heart? And I think the answer to that is, 'No.' ''
That cynicism is coupled with a deepening partisan divide. While Mr. Obama's job performance rating would suggest that most young voters feel he is doing well in office, a deeper look at the numbers reveals a split: 86 percent of young Democrats approve of Mr. Obama's job performance, while only 10 percent of young Republicans do.
''At no time since President Obama was elected in 2008 have we reported less trust, more cynicism and more partisanship among young voters,'' Mr. Della Volpe wrote in the study. ''Young voters, like older Americans, are becoming more partisan by the day.''
The split is also evident in issues like gun control, immigration and government spending, where young voters are more likely today than several years ago to adopt the views of their own parties. The Harvard survey found that the percentage of young Democrats who want stricter gun laws rose by eight points from 2010. But the percentage of Republicans who want stricter laws declined by seven points.
Political analysts know that voters are heavily influenced by the president and the political climate in which they come of age; young voters of the Franklin D. Roosevelt era, for instance, tended to stay Democratic throughout their lives, while those of the Ronald Reagan era still tilt strongly Republican.
Mr. Grayson, the Harvard institute director, said that experts there worry that the lasting effect on this generation of voters will be that their cynicism about government and politics will turn into ''a negative attachment that may be hard to overcome.''
Mr. Welsh of Oregon, who is working as a hotel desk attendant while studying for the State Department's examination to become a foreign service officer, may offer a hint of that sentiment. He still approves of Mr. Obama, he said, but he has little use for other politicians in Washington. ''I just don't trust them,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Welsh, 26, of Portland, Ore., is still an Obama supporter but distrusts most politicians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); DENVER, CO, USA (77%) OREGON, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



947 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; NEW MUSIC; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: New Albums From Iggy and the Stooges, Darcy James Argue and Kenny Chesney

BYLINE: By JON PARELES, JON CARAMANICA and NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
IGGY AND THE STOOGES
''Ready to Die''
(Fat Possum)
Iggy Pop circles back four decades with ''Ready to Die,'' collaborating anew with the surviving Stooges who made ''Raw Power,'' the 1973 album that was belatedly recognized as a protopunk landmark. ''Ready to Die'' is more historically self-conscious than ''Raw Power''; no doubt deliberately, it runs less than a minute longer than the 34-minute ''Raw Power'' LP. But its attitude stays brash.
''Ready to Die'' reunites Iggy with the guitarist James Williamson; they wrote the songs on ''Raw Power'' together. But soon afterward, in 1974, the Stooges disintegrated amid drugs, audience hostility and band conflicts. Although Mr. Williamson helped write and produce Iggy's solo albums until 1980, their collaboration ended acrimoniously. Mr. Williamson turned to electrical engineering and eventually became vice president for technology standards for Sony. 
Iggy regrouped a Stooges lineup with Ron Asheton on guitar, in 2003, and after Mr. Asheton died in 2009, Mr. Williamson rejoined the Stooges, his return to performing after more than 30 years. For ''Ready to Die,'' the band also includes Scott Asheton (Ron's brother) from the original Stooges on drums, with a post-punk admirer, Mike Watt from the Minutemen and Firehose, on bass. Iggy has dipped into many styles through the years; on his 2012 album, ''Après,'' he made himself a retro French chanteur. But ''Ready to Die'' does exactly what's expected of a Stooges album.
Drums kick, guitar riffs churn and Iggy taunts and sneers at the world, terse and unbridled. ''I'm a hanging judge of the world I'm in,'' he declares in the album's title song. In longtime Iggy style, the songs set out to push hot buttons, with titles like ''Burn,'' Sex and Money'' and ''Dirty Deal'' (snarling about a recording contract). Yet while Iggy leers dutifully in ''DD's,'' he's not the rampaging libido he was on ''Raw Power.'' Now, at 66 and still going shirtless onstage, he's got things on his mind like the economy (''I got a job but it don't pay,'' he barks in ''Job'') and the violence in American culture (''Murderers can stand their ground/Ain't nobody else around,'' he sings in ''Gun'').
But it's the Stooges sound that carries the album: Mr. Williamson's riffs, guitars and old-school production. The beat has the muscle and fluctuations of a live rhythm section. The rhythm and lead guitars keep a distorted edge and they grapple and claw their way through the songs, affirming that the Stooges were as much post-Rolling Stones as pre-punk. As on ''Raw Power,'' the band sometimes allows itself to slow down, in ''The Departed,'' a tribute to Ron Asheton, and in ''Unfriendly World.'' In those songs, Mr. Williamson deploys his acoustic and slide guitars and Iggy turns melodic and sage: ''Is it worth this pain to grow?/I guess I'll never know.'' Iggy and the Stooges know they aren't wild kids any more, but they're not going away quietly. JON PARELES
KENNY CHESNEY
''Life on a Rock''
(Blue Chair/Columbia Nashville)
To hear Kenny Chesney tell it, ''Life on a Rock'' is a placeholder between the sort of albums that made him one of the biggest country stars of the first decade of the 2000s, albums filled with churning Americana rock and lilting country-beach-bum anthems. Mr. Chesney is a superstar, the idea goes, and therefore can do what he wants.
Except when he can't, of course. This album's single, the lumpy and cheerful ''Pirate Flag,'' sounds as if it could have belonged to any Chesney album of the last few years and is one of two songs on this album on which he has no writing credit.
An example of the man holding the famously chill Mr. Chesney down, right? A forced return to his pigeonhole?
Maybe a helpful assist, actually. ''Pirate Flag'' has a pulse, unlike much of the rest of this album, much of which was written by Mr. Chesney, who is partial to long walks on the beach, acoustic ballads, nonlinear storytelling and lines that don't always rhyme. The results are mostly dismal, making for the sort of album that reinforces faith in big, lumbering institutions that understand starmaking.
Partnering with professional songwriters helps a bit, as on the tense and whimsical ''Must Be Something I Missed'': ''I wake up in the morning just making a fist/I don't call it living, I just exist.''
But left to his own devices, Mr. Chesney veers uncomfortably maudlin on ''Happy on the Hey Now (A Song for Kristi)''; dabbles in roots reggae on ''Spread the Love,'' featuring the Wailers and Elan; and actually titles a song ''Marley,'' name-checking several Bob Marley songs over steel drums.
The bar Mr. Chesney reminisces about on ''When I See This Bar'' sounds far less interesting than the one in Toby Keith's ''I Love This Bar.'' And ''Lindy'' is an accidentally condescending song about a seemingly homeless person -- ''No one knows his last name/But I believe he's the salt of the earth/Just look past his dirty shirt.'' Worse still, it's not even the best country song about a seemingly homeless person; it's tougher to swallow than even Craig Morgan's awkward and unsettling ''Almost Home.'' JON CARAMANICA
DARCY JAMES ARGUE'S SECRET SOCIETY
''Brooklyn Babylon''
(New Amsterdam)
''Brooklyn Babylon,'' the monumentally ambitious new album by Darcy James Argue's Secret Society, opens with the dull machine rumble of an elevated subway train, echoing somewhere in the middle distance. About half a minute in, a cohort of brass kicks up an Eastern European ruckus, setting the scene and establishing a theme. The track is simply titled ''Prologue,'' and it's both tantalizing and a little worrisome.
Mr. Argue, a resourceful young composer from Brooklyn -- by way of an upbringing in Vancouver and training at the New England Conservatory of Music -- has one previous album with Secret Society, his 18-piece big band. There was no outside agenda on that album, ''Infernal Machines,'' though it managed to make a few salient points, mainly about the acres of untapped possibility in what might look like an antiquated format.
The music on ''Brooklyn Babylon,'' on the other hand, comes loaded with subtext: Mr. Argue originally created it in collaboration with Danijel Zezelj, an artist and animator, as part of the 2011 Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Their multimedia piece suggested an urban fable, revolving around issues of gentrification and artistic integrity. That's a lot to compress into album form, and so the question here is whether Mr. Argue and crew were able to make the music stand on its own.
Short answer: yes. Fittingly, for an artistic endeavor so obsessed with the act of building -- one of its most dynamic tracks is ''Construction + Destruction'' -- this album looms with sturdy intent. That theme unfurled at its outset serves as a functional motif, around which many others race and swirl. (The album was produced by Mr. Argue with Brian Montgomery, who also did stunning work as its recording and mixing engineer.)
And while there's always some narrative implication in the music, it's never too elusive to grasp. You don't need a codebook to understand ''Builders,'' which begins with scurrying movements and then hunkers down in bombast, with Ingrid Jensen's echo-processed trumpet crying out as a lone, anguished voice.
Mr. Argue, 37, has consistently drawn praise for bringing the established language of big-band writing, especially as exemplified by his former teacher Bob Brookmeyer, into meaningful contact with aspects of postminimalism and indie rock. There's more of that here, most strikingly on ''The Neighborhood,'' which borrows a strobing piano part, a disco beat and eventually an electric bass line from the LCD Soundsystem song ''All My Friends.'' A track called ''Coney Island'' incorporates both a minimalist piano repetition, played by Gordon Webster, and a distorted guitar solo, by Sebastian Noelle.
Mr. Noelle also plays one of seven roughly minute-long interludes -- ''Interlude #5 Unmoored,'' based on a Croatian folk song -- alone on acoustic guitar. It leads into ''Missing Parts,'' a percussive and pointillist exercise with solos from the trombonist James Hirschfeld and the baritone saxophonist Josh Sinton, as well as Erica von Kleist on piccolo and Nadje Noordhuis on fluegelhorn. It's the album's most action-packed five minutes, a good distillation of what makes this band, and Mr. Argue's vision, so vital and absorbing. It also restates that opening melody: thematic coherence, at no extra cost. NATE CHINEN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iggy Pop onstage in March. His new album is ''Ready to Die." (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROBERTS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (88%); MUSIC (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); RECORD RELEASES (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENGINEERING (67%)

PERSON: KENNY CHESNEY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



948 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Grim Economics Shape France's Military Spending

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PARIS -- France will effectively freeze its military spending for the next several years, cutting nearly 10 percent of defense jobs while using more money for high-tech equipment, in a bid to maintain its ability to conduct overseas operations like the one in Mali, the government said Monday.
A strategic review, the first since 2008, tries to reconcile France's weak economic growth and declining budgets with its ability to take unilateral military action, preserve its nuclear deterrent, and improve its intelligence and cybersecurity. 
While spending about 1.5 percent of its gross domestic product on defense, France will remain Europe's No. 2 in military spending behind Britain. Britain is shrinking its armed forces to 82,000, the lowest number since the Battle of Waterloo, while trying to keep its own nuclear deterrent.
''France wants to maintain its ability to react alone,'' President François Hollande said in discussing the report, known as the ''Livre Blanc,'' or white book, on defense and national security.
The government, having examined the lessons of recent conflicts in Libya and Mali, decided that it could not afford to cut military spending too severely.
The defense budget will remain the same, in nominal terms, for the next three years. But that means that President Hollande's Socialist government will need to look elsewhere to meet its promises to cut 60 billion euros, or about $79 billion, in state spending over its five-year term. It plans to cut $6.5 billion in 2014 and promises to bring its budget deficit down to 3 percent of gross domestic product.
But the white paper, at more than 150 pages, foresees a reduction of at least 24,000 jobs in addition to the 54,000 announced in the last white paper in 2008, written under the former president, Nicolas Sarkozy. The current white paper also suggests a reduction in rapid deployment forces from 30,000 to between 15,000 and 20,000. But the paper emphasizes the ability to field up to 7,000 troops in three separate areas concurrently, though plans for a second aircraft carrier will be scrapped.
France now has about 228,000 military personnel; 10,000 are expected to be cut soon. An additional 66,700 civilians work in the armed forces.
Mr. Hollande's government has been as tough in its military actions and foreign policy positions as the Sarkozy government, and the defense minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, is generally commended for his stewardship of the ministry as well as the Mali intervention.
But Mr. Le Drian, in an interview with The New York Times in February, said the conflicts in Mali and Libya had pointed out deficiencies in intelligence gathering by drones, which he called ''incomprehensible,'' and in the French ability to refuel aircraft and transport troops, requiring help from European allies and especially from Washington.
He promised that while the French were developing their own drones, Paris would seek to buy some from the United States or Israel; the white paper foresees more efforts at shared assets like transport planes with European allies. He also said he expected new investment in special forces.
''The principal question in the white paper is how to adapt defense to a financial crisis -- defense is a matter of sovereignty, and so is the security of the public accounts,'' he said in the interview. But he also said new investments ''seem to me inevitable, like intelligence and special forces.''
The paper proposes a defense budget of $235 billion between 2014 and 2019, comparable to the 2008 white paper. The equipment budget is foreseen at about $21 billion a year, down from $24 billion forecast in 2008, but still enough to give some optimism to the 4,000 or so defense-related enterprises in France, which employ about 165,000 people.
Political opposition figures said the cuts would damage France's ability to act independently. Vincent Desportes, an outspoken former director of a military school, said the proposed reduction in deployable forces ''makes France a really minor actor in coalition operations.'' Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, an opposition member of the parliamentary foreign affairs commission, said that ''we have already reduced the army's size a lot over the past five years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); EURO (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (98%); MALI (94%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



949 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Debt and Growth: A Response to Reinhart and Rogoff

BYLINE: By ROBERT POLLIN and MICHAEL ASH. 
Robert Pollin and Michael Ash are professors of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

 BODY:
AMHERST, Mass.
THE debate over government debt and its relationship to economic growth is at the forefront of policy debates across the industrialized world. The role of the economics profession in shaping the debate has always come under scrutiny.
In particular, attention has focused on the findings of the Harvard economists Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff, whose 2009 book, ''This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,'' received acclaim for its use of hard-to-find historical data to draw conclusions about the origins and nature of financial crises and how long it takes to recover from them.
Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff have published several other papers, including a 2010 academic article, ''Growth in a Time of Debt.'' It found that economic growth was notably lower when a country's gross public debt equaled or exceeded 90 percent of its gross domestic product. 
Earlier this month, we posted a working paper, co-written with Thomas Herndon, finding fault with this conclusion. We identified a spreadsheet coding error -- which Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff promptly acknowledged -- that affected their calculations of growth rates for big economies since World War II. We also asserted that the two of them erred by omitting some data and improperly weighting other statistics. In an Op-Ed essay and appendix last week, Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff denied those accusations.
They referred to this debate as an ''academic kerfuffle,'' but we believe the debate has been constructive, because it has brought greater clarity over the ideas shaping austerity policies in both the United States and Europe.
The most important insight for anyone following this debate, and one that Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff acknowledge, is that there is no evidence supporting the claim that countries will consistently experience a sharp decline in economic growth once public debt levels exceed 90 percent of G.D.P. Although the two of them partly backed away from that claim in a 2012 paper in The Journal of Economic Perspectives, they have now done so more definitively, saying the 90 percent figure is not ''a magic threshold that transforms outcomes, as conservative politicians have suggested.''
However, Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff stubbornly maintain that ''growth is about 1 percentage point lower when debt is 90 percent or more of gross domestic product,'' a core finding of their 2010 paper.
There are serious problems with this claim. The most obvious is that the median growth figures they reported in the 2010 paper are distorted by the same coding error and partial exclusion of data from Australia, Canada and New Zealand that tainted their average growth figures. When we corrected for these errors, the difference in median economic growth rates was only 0.4 percentage points between countries whose public-debt-to-G.D.P. ratio was between 60 percent and 90 percent, and those where the ratio was over 90 percent (2.9 percent median growth, versus 2.5 percent). The difference between 0.4 percent and 1 percent is quite substantial when we're talking about national economic growth.
(Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff have substantial disagreements with us about the proper selection and weighting of data. They elaborated on these points in their Op-Ed appendix. We have presented all our data, calculations and methodological arguments on the Web site of the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, where we teach.)
Our critique of Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff -- one they have not adequately rebutted -- emphasizes the fact that the relationship between public debt levels and G.D.P. growth varies substantially by country and over time.
Especially significant here is the pattern for the most recent decade in their postwar data set: 2000 to 2009. There is no evidence in these most recent years for any drop-off at all in economic growth when public debt exceeds 90 percent of G.D.P. While Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff have been commended for tracking down historic economic records going back centuries, we believe that the correlation between debt and growth over the last decade is more informative and useful for assessing present-day policy concerns than data from the post-World War II era or, say, the Industrial Revolution.
We agree with Ms. Reinhart and Mr. Rogoff that the United States and Europe face extremely difficult challenges in trying to recover from the 2007-8 financial crisis and the Great Recession that followed. Sadly, in our view, they abetted, or at least failed to stop, the use of their scholarship by politicians who latched on to their findings -- in particular the now discredited 90 percent figure -- to call for severe cuts in government budgets and services, layoffs of public-sector employees and tax increases.
What this debate has demonstrated is that policy makers cannot defend these austerity measures on the grounds that public debt exceeding 90 percent of G.D.P. will consistently produce sharp declines in economic growth.
History suggests that there is some threshold beyond which piling on public debt definitively yields lower economic growth, but there is no consensus on what that threshold is, and the evidence suggests, in any event, that the United States and Europe are not anywhere close to it.
Responsible policy makers must balance the relative costs and benefits of austerity at a time when high unemployment is exacerbating rising inequality, and threatening the social fabric of advanced industrial democracies around the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HISTORY (76%); STATISTICS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); WORLD WAR II (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



950 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; EXCERPT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: 'Clean: Overcoming Addiction and Ending America's Greatest Tragedy'

BYLINE: By DAVID SHEFF

 BODY:
The view that drug use is a moral choice is pervasive, pernicious, and wrong. So are the corresponding beliefs about the addicted -- that they're weak, selfish, and dissolute; if they weren't, when their excessive drug taking and drinking began to harm them, they'd stop. The reality is far different. Using drugs or not isn't about willpower or character. Most problematic drug use is related to stress, trauma, genetic predisposition, mild or serious mental illness, use at an early age, or some combination of those. Even in their relentless destruction and self-destruction, the addicted aren't bad people. They're gravely ill, afflicted with a chronic, progressive, and often terminal disease.
People also believe that addicts can't be treated; at best, they can muster their willpower and manage their compulsion for a short time. But while it's true that addicts who seek treatment are seldom cured, their disease is treatable when we reject the pseudoscience, moralizing, and scare tactics that characterize the current system. The disease of addiction can be prevented, and when we treat it the way we treat other diseases, those in its thrall can be freed to live long, full, healthy lives. 
The mission of Clean is to describe the scope of America's drug problem and explain how and why we've failed in our efforts to combat it. I show why we must waste no time in rejecting the existing paradigm that got us into this catastrophic mess. I provide scientific evidence that will change the way we think about drugs and addiction. Finally, and most important, I present the hopeful news that we can now effectively prevent drug use and treat addiction. When we do, we do more than help those with drug problems and their families. We also start to remedy America's single greatest problem, one that affects almost every other problem you can name -- the quality and availability of health care, the national and international economic crisis, poverty, spousal and child abuse, suicide, U.S. competitiveness in the world economy, property crime, violence, shattered families, decimated neighborhoods, and many others.
As a young child, my firstborn son, Nic, was happy and excited about everything, kind and sincere and funny. Parents like me monitor external barometers to tell us how our kids are doing, and according to those, as Nic grew older, he did well. He had friends; he was a good student, an athlete (on the varsity swim and water polo teams), and a lauded student journalist. Most important, he seemed so joyful. But, beginning when he was twelve years old, he was also using drugs, initially smoking pot.
A decade later, I still look back and ask, How did it start? How does it start for any of our children, our husbands or wives, partners, parents, siblings, friends -- for anyone who becomes addicted? Nic says he tried drugs because he was curious, and everyone seemed to be using, ''at least, everyone who was cool.'' When he tried them, he felt fantastic. He used more and then more. He graduated from high school, but he also graduated to other drugs. He began college but didn't last long there. Instead, he became homeless, sleeping in cars, abandoned buildings, and city parks. He lied to his family and stole from us. He took pills (psychedelics, ecstasy, uppers, downers), used cocaine, and -- inconceivably to me -- began shooting heroin, crack, and crystal meth.
I wrote about the years our family lived through his addiction in the book Beautiful Boy. Readers of it and of Nic's own books -- a pair ofmemoirs, Tweak: Growing Up on Methamphetamines and We All Fall Down -- know many of the gory details. Over the course of a hellish half a dozen years, Nic dealt drugs, was beaten up, and was wanted by the police. Once, a doctor informed him that he would probably have to amputate Nic's arm because it had become infected after Nic shot heroin and crystal meth. (Miraculously, the doctor was able to save it.) There were many times when Nic nearly died. I'd think, This cannot be happening to my son. Not to Nic. I thought he'd be protected by his intelligence, his education, us -- his family. Nic didn't look like the addicts I'd see on the streets. I'd walk by those hollow-eyed, trembling wraiths and avert my gaze. I thought it was impossible that Nic would become one of them, but he did.
Excerpted from CLEAN: Overcoming Addiction and Ending America's Greatest Tragedy by David Sheff. Copyright © 2013 by David Sheff. Used by permission of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. All rights reserved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); FAMILY (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (67%); CANNABIS (66%); WATER SPORTS (63%); WATER POLO (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); SUICIDE (61%); PROPERTY CRIMES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



951 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Studying The Dark Art Of Leaking Deal Talks

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Psst.
That's how you might imagine a ''leak'' of a big merger or acquisition would start. A well-placed phone call. An off-handed comment over lunch. A confidential document accidentally left on an airplane.
It seems as if news of most big deals is invariably leaked ahead of the official announcement. Of the biggest deals of the year so far -- the buyout of Dell, Warren Buffett's acquisition of Heinz, American Airlines-US Airways, Liberty Global-Virgin Media -- none made it to the finish line without the news media finding out about it first, sometimes with weeks of advance notice, some with just hours to go.
An intriguing academic study casts new light on the dark arts of the leak -- or what used to be affectionately known in London as ''the Friday night drop.'' (It's a bit of lore, but deal leaks used to be delivered by envelope on Friday night on Fleet Street to the gossipy Sunday broadsheets where the news could be placed as a trial balloon ahead of the markets' reopening on Monday.) 
According to the study, conducted by the Cass Business School in London -- and commissioned by Intralinks, a provider of electronic data rooms for deal makers -- sellers are often perversely rewarded by leaks in the marketplace: buyers of companies involved in deals that leaked before the announcement paid a premium averaging 18 percentage points more than in deals that did not leak.
The study examined 4,000 deals between 2004 and 2012. On average, the study suggests, despite anecdotal evidence to the contrary, that leaks have actually been reduced in recent years. According to the study, 11 percent of all deals were leaked between 2008 and 2009. Between 2010 and 2012, it fell to 7 percent.
Remarkably, there is a huge divergence based on region. During the period examined, 19 percent of all deals in Britain were leaked, while only 7 percent of deals in the United States were leaked; 10 percent of deals were leaked in Asia.
To the casual observer, those numbers may seem to understate the situation, especially because it is usually the big, complex transactions with brand names that receive the headlines.
In Britain, the Financial Services Authority published a report in 2010 suggesting that word of a whopping 30 percent of all deals was leaked before they were officially announced. At the time, the agency said, ''Strategic leaks, designed to be advantageous to a party to a transaction, are particularly damaging to market confidence and do not serve shareholders' or investors' wider interests.'' It went on to push for ''a much stricter culture that firmly and actively discourages leaks.''
The Cass study also reflected a distinct downside to deal-leaking: a deal's chances of completion drop significantly. Leaked deals were 9 percent less likely to close than those kept under wraps and took, on average, a week longer to complete, perhaps given the added commotion and complexity created by the leak. (The study did not look at what happened to deals that were leaked but never reached the point of being announced.)
So how did the study explain the reduction of leaks in recent years?
The authors attributed it to ''a stricter regulatory environment with more active enforcement and, perhaps most significantly, the subdued deal-making environment and fewer buyers in the market, which has encouraged firms to play it safe and not complicate a deal by leaking.''
How true. With so few deals these days, everyone involved in a transaction -- management, boards, bankers, lawyers, accountants, public relations professionals, consultants and other fixers -- are reluctant to leak and risk their fees, many of which are typically contingent on a deal's completion.
Still, of course, the art of leaking news of a deal has long been part of the mergers and acquisition machine.
Bryan Burrough, the author of ''Barbarians at the Gate,'' described how Henry Kravis reacted in 1986 when news that he was planning to bid for RJR Nabisco leaked, and he made a phone call to a banker he was convinced was responsible.
''I can't believe you did this to me,'' Mr. Kravis reportedly told Jeff Beck of Drexel Burnham Lambert.
''I didn't do it! I didn't do it! You've got to believe me! It was Wasserstein! It had to be Wasserstein!'' Beck shot back, referring to Bruce Wasserstein. Years before Mr. Wasserstein died, he insisted to me that he wasn't behind that leak, but he did say that leaking was part of every deal maker's arsenal in the 1980s. I can confirm that Mr. Wasserstein never leaked to me.
Of course, the topic of this column hits a little too close to home. I will share a bit more, but not too much. A magician, as they say, never reveals his secrets.
First, leaks become exponentially more likely as more people are added to a transaction, whether it be people inside the acquirer or target, or perhaps, as additional advisers are included in the process. If a big deal needs financing -- as in debt from banks -- the risk of leaks jumps. Every bank contacted then knows about the deal, as does the bank's law firm. And it is not just one or two bankers and lawyers who were first contacted -- it's often dozens of them. Every banker or lawyer who brings on a new client must clear the new assignment with a ''conflicts committee.'' That committee can have half a dozen or more people on it -- and those people may have to check with others at the firm who are working on competitive projects. This is true not just of banks and law firms but of consulting firms, accounting firms and public relations firms.
The private equity world poses its own problem. Those firms often have large investment committees and also employ armies of outside consultants and law firms that typically do much of the heavy lifting when it comes to going through the books and records of prospective targets.
By the time deal talks begin in earnest, it is almost impossible that fewer than 100 people know about it; more likely it's many more. If there is a ''bake-off'' -- a competition among advisers for the assignment -- the number is even higher. And if there is an auction, well, forget about it.
The Cass study suggests all sorts of motivations for deal leaks. ''Leaks from the seller are seen primarily as a way to improve the target's bargaining power,'' for example. The authors added that ''leaks from a buyer are seen as a tool to scupper a deal which has not progressed as originally hoped.'' The authors also said that third parties, not involved in a deal but aware of it, are ''seen as a source of leaks designed to sabotage a deal.'' Yet, the authors also said that ''some M.&A. practitioners also feel that leaks can be used to help drive a deal through when one side is delaying.''
Those explanations make sense. Over the years, I've heard it all: a chief executive who wanted to get a deal done despite opposition from his board and was convinced that if the market knew, investors would cheer and bolster his position; a board member who wanted to block a deal but didn't have the votes and was convinced that if the market knew there would be an outcry; a banker who lost the business to a rival firm and wanted to make his competitor appear to be a leaker.
But the one problem with the Cass study is this: It assumes the leaks are rational and based on a considered strategy. As a reporter who has covered the world of deal-making for more than a decade, I can attest that most ''leaks'' are actually not that organized. More often than not, they start out as accidents -- a tip from a competitor about a transaction they heard about that then gets passed on.
The rate of deal leaks may be down. But if the economy begins chugging along -- and a merger boom, a good gauge of market sentiment, returns -- keep your eyes peeled. The ''Friday night drop'' might stage a comeback.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Dell stand at the CeBIT technology convention in March in Germany. Word of a Dell buyout leaked to the news media before it could be finished. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN GALLUP/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); STATISTICS (86%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); AIRLINES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: LIBERTY GLOBAL INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); INTRALINKS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: LBTYA (NASDAQ) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); IL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ASIA (75%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



952 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Charlotte Mayor Is Chosen as Transportation Chief

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama announced on Monday that he would nominate Anthony R. Foxx, a Democrat and the mayor of Charlotte, N.C., to be the next transportation secretary, saying Mr. Foxx's local government experience would help him manage the nation's roads, bridges and airports. 
Flanked by Mr. Foxx and Ray LaHood, the departing secretary, Mr. Obama said Mr. Foxx was ''one of the best mayors that Charlotte has ever seen'' and ''an impressive leader.''
The president also used the opportunity to prod Congress to provide billions of dollars for improving the nation's transportation infrastructure. He said the administration's top priority was strengthening the economy and providing more jobs for people.
''One of the best ways we can do that is to put more Americans back to work rebuilding our infrastructure,'' Mr. Obama said.
Mr. Foxx praised the president and Mr. LaHood, saying they had earned ''the admiration and appreciation of America's mayors.'' He vowed to seek bipartisan solutions to transportation problems.
''There is no such thing as a Democratic or a Republican road, bridge, port, airfield or rail station,'' said Mr. Foxx, who turns 42 on Tuesday. ''We must work together, across party lines, to enhance this nation's infrastructure.''
The audience for the event included Mr. Foxx's grandmother. Mr. Obama said during his remarks that she had told him she worked in the White House during the administration of President Harry S. Truman in the 1940s and '50s.
Mr. Foxx, who is black, would add to the diversity of Mr. Obama's cabinet after criticism that the president had not done enough to recruit advisers from a variety of backgrounds. He would join a cabinet that also includes Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations, both of whom are black.
Robert L. Darbelnet, the president of the AAA, said in a statement that he was encouraged by the selection of Mr. Foxx.
''We look forward to working with Mayor Foxx once confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and we are hopeful that he will help make transportation a top national priority,'' Mr. Darbelnet said.
Three weeks ago, Mr. Foxx announced that he would not seek re-election as mayor this year because he wanted to spend more time with his family, including two children who were born after he joined the Charlotte City Council in 2005. Mr. Foxx was the first black student body president at Davidson College and earned a law degree from New York University.
While Mr. Foxx does not have a transportation background, he worked as mayor to extend a light-rail line, open another runway at Charlotte Douglas International Airport, complete a major highway widening, improve a major bridge and bring streetcars back to Charlotte.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony R. Foxx, center, with President Obama and Ray LaHood, the departing secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); MAYORS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



953 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Jim Thorpe's Place in America

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
A bittersweet restlessness has long been tied to the legend of Jim Thorpe, the Olympic champion and American Indian whose gold medal feats mesmerized the nation a century ago.
Thorpe won the decathlon and pentathlon at the 1912 Olympics, but he was soon stripped of his medals for violating stiff-necked rules of amateurism for having played minor league baseball for token remuneration. In a fit of conscience, Olympic officials restored the medals in 1982, but, by then, Thorpe was long dead and entombed via a bizarre arrangement in which two Pennsylvania mining towns Thorpe had never visited -- Mauch Chunk and East Mauch Chunk -- officially changed their name to Jim Thorpe, Pa. The 1954 deal with Thorpe's widow provided a red granite mausoleum for the great athlete's remains and hope that his name and grave would stir a boom in tourism and local pride amid the hard times of recession. 
All that was prelude to a judge's ruling this month that Thorpe's two surviving sons had the right under American Indian ancestral law to move his remains from Jim Thorpe, Pa., to the Sac and Fox lands in Oklahoma where he was raised. The ruling was another chapter in the meandering ways of the Thorpe legend. He was rightly acclaimed as one of the surpassing athletes of the 20th century but ultimately pitied for being exploited by handlers and promoters amid his fall into alcoholism. Thorpe proved his true worth as a competitor. His spectacular time for the grueling decathlon test in the 1,500 meters -- 4 minutes 40.1 seconds -- stood for 60 years.
The town of Jim Thorpe, which has kept the mausoleum pristine across the decades, must decide whether to appeal the ruling and whether, if Thorpe leaves, to change its name. Either way, the town will not be wholly bereft. Even as fewer tourists have come in search of Jim Thorpe, the town's fortunes have risen as a picturesque setting of Victorian architecture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); TRACK & FIELD (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); BASEBALL (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); JUDGES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



954 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: All Puns Aside, Weiner Makes Lucrative Name in Consulting

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Anthony D. Weiner has demystified the details of the 906-page Affordable Care Act for an electronic medical records company.
He has counseled a biofuel firm about expansion into the emerging markets of Latin America and Africa.
And he has plunged into the world of start-ups with his own green energy business.
Over the past two years, it appeared as if Mr. Weiner, once the irrepressible fireball of New York City politics, had spent his days as a stay-at-home dad, licking his wounds and mourning his ambitions after the salacious images and messages that he sent to women prompted his resignation from Congress.
But it turns out that from the moment he left public view, the man who had relied on a government paycheck his entire adult life was consumed by a corporate career whose profits and progress came to him, by his own account, with remarkable ease. 
Mr. Weiner, a Democrat who once loudly championed a government-run health care option, a totem of big-government liberalism, now employs the language of a grizzled Wall Streeter, dropping references to ''energy plays'' and ''monthly retainers.''
During an interview, he proudly declared that ''I am a good capitalist.''
As he weighs whether to leap into the race for mayor this year, Mr. Weiner's lucrative stint in business could serve as a compelling campaign credential, blunting efforts to portray him as a career politician, even as it raises uncomfortable questions about the speed with which he cashed in on his government connections.
He and his wife, Huma Abedin, a longtime aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton, disclosed last week that they had a combined income of $496,000 in 2012, most of it from Mr. Weiner's work. The money provided a lifestyle-changing infusion for the couple, who moved from a modest home in Forest Hills, Queens, to a large apartment on Park Avenue South in Manhattan.
Mr. Weiner's rapid rise from disgraced lawmaker to in-demand strategic consultant demonstrates the enduring power of Washington's revolving door.
New York's tabloids merrily beat him up with pun-filled headlines, but companies eager to navigate federal regulations and red tape say that a tainted congressman is worth every cent.
''Business is business,'' said Harold Gubnitsky, formerly executive vice president at Parabel, a Weiner client that harvests an algae-like crop used for food and fuel.
''He's a very quick student,'' Mr. Gubnitsky said. ''He had a natural instinct for it.''
The jaunty self-confidence that Mr. Weiner displayed on 24-hour news networks and the floor of the House of Representatives has quickly transferred to this new arena.
On six different occasions during the interview, he marveled at his own aptitude for business. ''I found I am pretty good at it,'' he said at one point, adding that he ''didn't have to do very much or work very hard to drum up business.''
''Things kind of came over the transom,'' he explained.
It did not take Mr. Weiner long to embark on a new career after he left Congress on June 16, 2011. On July 7, he quietly incorporated a new firm, Woolf Weiner Associates, named for his great-grandfather, an Austrian immigrant to the Lower East Side.
Since then, Mr. Weiner said, he has advised more than a dozen companies. He disclosed the names of a few of them after they agreed to waive confidentiality agreements.
He signed up a New York firm called CureMD, an electronic medical records provider. And he became a consultant to Covington & Burling, an international law firm.
In interviews, executives at those companies described Mr. Weiner as a quick and nimble student of their businesses with an innate sense of how to navigate the rhythms and personalities of government.
At Parabel, Mr. Weiner was credited with distilling the company's complex business model into easy-to-understand sales pitches for potential investors and foreign officials, at times to the amazement of the businessmen in the room. Mr. Gubnitsky recalled how Mr. Weiner employed the concept of ''economic ecosystems'' to highlight the positive impact of the firm's technology on farmers and consumers.
Mr. Weiner has advised Covington & Burling as it seeks to persuade the Federal Communications Commission to relax its long-standing objections to major foreign investment in the broadcast industry. He has tutored the firm on the key players and their political sensitivities, using knowledge gleaned from his tenure on the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
Mr. Weiner said he had reached out to federal officials at the Energy and Agriculture Departments, as well as members of Congress, on behalf of his clients. But he insisted that the work did not meet the legal definition of lobbying, which he said his contracts made clear he would not do.
The executives who have worked with him said the raunchy online banter with women that cost Mr. Weiner his post in Congress posed no problem for their employers.
''Nobody said don't do this,'' Mace J. Rosenstein, a partner in Covington's telecommunications practice, said of hiring Mr. Weiner. ''He's got this thing he has to deal with and it appears he is dealing with it in his own way.''
Mr. Weiner has become enthralled enough by his foray into business that he is involved in creating two new companies. One, a consulting firm led by Mr. Gubnitsky, will focus on renewable energy in Latin America. The other remains a closely held secret. ''It's a really good idea,'' Mr. Weiner said, ''and I don't want anyone else to steal it.''
His biggest regret so far: undercharging. ''I make far less money than I should, with all the advice that I've given and how lucrative it's turned out to be for the companies,'' he said.
Even as he scouts out possible campaign office space and reaches out to potential advisers for a mayoral run, it is clear that Mr. Weiner has also imagined a life without politics in it.
''If I don't get back to public life, would I enjoy stuff like this?'' he asked. ''Yes.''
He insists that his newfound success -- and high-priced East Side address -- does not change his essential political message and appeal. ''I am always going to be an outer-borough boy at heart,'' he said.
Moving into Manhattan was not his idea, he suggested, with exquisite marital diplomacy. ''I love my wife very much,'' he said.
''Given some of the things that Huma and I have been through,'' he added, ''I was not going to argue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); BIOFUELS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); CITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MAYORS (65%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



955 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Splits Senator From Mentor

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Jim DeMint helped makeMarco Rubio a Senate star -- and he could be forgiven for regretting it.
Mr. DeMint, a former Republican senator from South Carolina, endorsed Mr. Rubio early on in his 2010 Senate bid, when he was still a long-shot Tea Party candidate, and Mr. Rubio has said that Mr. DeMint is his best friend, after his wife.
And yet, perhaps for the first time, the two men now find themselves at odds on a major issue. In 2007, Mr. DeMint was instrumental in helping to kill legislation to overhaul the nation's immigration system, and now, six years later, Mr. Rubio, Republican of Florida, is a pivotal member of a bipartisan Senate group that has written a bill that would do just what Mr. DeMint was fighting to prevent.
As Mr. Rubio's immigration push meets vocal and persistent opposition, it will be Mr. DeMint, newly ensconced as the president of the Heritage Foundation, among those leading the charge. The foundation plans to issue an updated version of its 2007 economic study that helped doom the overhaul. 
And Mr. DeMint has taken to the Internet, national newspapers and conservative talk radio to push against the legislation of his former protégé.
''I certainly wish he was on my side,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''But he's a very principled man and he truly believes this is the wrong approach and I respect that.''
During his time in the Senate, Mr. DeMint, 61, earned a reputation as something of a smiling assassin -- a mild-mannered legislator with a soft Southern drawl who could be a near-constant irritant to those not in line with his conservative causes and principles. Now, he has begun gearing up for the next fight.
Before the legislation was even unveiled, at a session with bloggers, Mr. DeMint -- whose new nongovernment salary, if it mirrors his predecessor's, is likely to be more than $1 million -- warned that the bill was being ''developed behind closed doors, in secret.''
''We've seen this movie before,'' he said. ''We know how this game plays out.''
Though Mr. DeMint says he supports legal immigration, he prefers a piecemeal approach to fixing the system and views any path to citizenship for the 11 million immigrants who are in the country illegally as amnesty, forgiveness for breaking the law.
His main argument is an economic one -- a belief that unauthorized immigrants, who he said would ultimately take out more in federal benefits than they would pay in taxes, would be a drain on the economy. (Under the legislation proposed in the Senate, it would be at least 13 years before an illegal immigrant would qualify for any federal benefits.)
In its 2007 study, the Heritage Foundation estimated that an immigration overhaul could cost taxpayers roughly $2.5 trillion, and that staggering sum is credited with helping provide a rationale to kill the legislation. Though Republican politicians and other groups have since criticized the research as flawed, the Heritage Foundation plans to release a new version of the study soon.
Mr. DeMint, who in the Senate was willing to oppose his fellow Republicans, has already proved himself formidable in his new role, as his organization helped the Republican opposition to a background check compromise on gun legislation that was ultimately defeated.
''What Jim DeMint has done is a wonderful thing,'' said Larry Pratt, the executive director of Gun Owners of America. ''He has shown that the best way to make change in Washington is from the outside.''
And when it comes to immigration, his word, especially in conservative circles, is still highly influential.
''We care what Senator DeMint's perspective on an issue is because we have a relationship with him, and he remains much more popular in my district than I am,'' said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, referring to the state's delegation. ''I'd be crazy not to.''
Immigration watchers, meanwhile, are curious about how the relationship between Mr. DeMint and Mr. Rubio will affect the debate. ''He was an early backer of Rubio and Rubio owes him a lot,'' said Keith Appell, a Republican political consultant.
''If DeMint wins, Rubio loses,'' said Frank Sharry, the executive director of America's Voice, a pro-immigration group. ''The Republicans' best chance going forward is to have Marco Rubio win this day, and if Jim DeMint cuts him off at the knees, he's going to hurt Republican chances of regaining the White House.''
Others see their relationship as that of a young, charismatic son (Mr. Rubio) eclipsing his more experienced father (Mr. DeMint).
''It's almost like a Greek story, where the offspring is now leading the very thing his father made his bones over,'' said a Senate Republican aide, speaking anonymously in order to offer a candid assessment. ''The leader who killed the 2007 bill -- that was his one accomplishment. And now his protégé is picking up the baton in the exact opposite direction.''
Because of a Senate ethics rule, Mr. DeMint is all but banned from discussing policy with Mr. Rubio for two years. But that hasn't stopped the Heritage Foundation and its policy advocacy arm, Heritage Action, from doing all it can to influence the immigration debate.
The organization hosts various briefings and conversations, and is considered, in the words of Mr. Appell, ''one of the cornerstones of intellectual force in the conservative movement.'' Mr. DeMint himself has written an op-ed article in which he derided the bill as ''legislated amnesty'' that would harm American taxpayers. He has also penned blog posts and appeared on talk radio.
Mr. Rubio and his office are keeping a close eye on where Mr. DeMint and the Heritage Foundation stand.
Though loath to take on Mr. DeMint himself, Mr. Rubio and his staff are already pushing back on his economic argument, saying that the public benefits of an immigration overhaul would outweigh any concerns about cost. Mr. Rubio said that most immigrants, ''once they become legalized and improve their lives, they'll be better. In essence, they'll pay more in taxes because they'll be making more.''
''So basically, if you're going to come to this country, you're going to wait 13 years to even have a chance to apply for citizenship,'' he added, ''have no federal benefits in the meantime, have to pay taxes, a fine, undergo background checks twice, all those sorts of things, in exchange for being able to take advantage of welfare programs 13 years from now, 14 years from now?'' The answer, he implied, was no.
Friends of Mr. DeMint said that contrary to his public image, he rarely wages personal attacks and can disagree while still being cordial.
''The way he usually ends his conversations with me is, 'Reasonable minds can differ' or 'You need to do what you think is best,' '' Mr. Gowdy said. ''I imagine he ends his conversations with Senator Rubio precisely the same way.''
But the 2007 immigration debate quickly became heated, and at times nasty. Legislators yelled at one another on the Senate floor. At one point, a Drudge Report link to a news release from Mr. DeMint's office, calling the bill ''amnesty,'' crashed the Congressional servers because it was so widely read.
For now, however, both Mr. DeMint and Mr. Rubio said they did not expect their differing approaches on immigration to strain their friendship.
''Good friends can have honest disagreements, but I know we're working towards the same goal -- a lawful immigration system that works for America -- with differing solutions of how we get there,'' said Mr. DeMint, in response to questions over e-mail.
And, from Mr. Rubio: ''We have some disagreements on the best way forward on immigration. But it's never going to change how I feel about Jim DeMint, and hopefully it doesn't change how he feels about me.''
He paused, then added a bit more confidently: ''I know it doesn't.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2013

 CORRECTION:
A subheading on Tuesday with the continuation of an article about the disagreement over immigration between Jim DeMint, a former Republican senator, and his onetime protégé Marco Rubio misstated, in some editions, the year Mr. DeMint endorsed Mr. Rubio in his 2010 Senate bid. It was 2009, not 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jim DeMint in Washington on Dec. 6, the day he said he would leave the Senate and join the Heritage Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
 Marco Rubio, center, who has called Mr. DeMint his best friend, is part of a Senate group working to overhaul immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AMNESTY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (83%)

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (93%); MARCO RUBIO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2013



956 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: The Beatings Must Continue

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Oy E C D. 

 BODY:
Sometimes economists in official positions give bad advice; sometimes they give very, very bad advice; and sometimes they work at the OECD. 
It's almost exactly three years since the Paris-based OECD gave what may have been the worst advice of any major international organization - worse than the European Commission, worse than the ECB. Not only did it join in the demand for fiscal austerity, it also demanded that the US start raising interest rates rapidly, so as to head off the threat of inflation - even though its own models showed no such threat.
So here we are three years later. No inflation takeoff in America (and the Fed trying to find ways to boost demand at a zero rate); austerity economics has crashed and burned; the latest numbers from Eurostat look like this:
And what is the OECD's chief economist (still the same person)saying
The euro zone is at risk of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory by abandoning efforts to cut budget deficits and fix long-standing economic problems, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's chief economist warned Monday.
...
Mr. Padoan said the growing perception that austerity has been futile is incorrect.
"Fiscal consolidation is producing results, the pain is producing results," he said.
He added that euro-zone policy makers need to do a better job of communicating their successes to a weary population.
I believe that's eurospeak for "the beatings will continue until morale improves."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



957 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Inequality and Political Inequality

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: The wealthy have disproportionate political influence, and those pursuing a liberal economic agenda might do well to emphasize social issues that divide the wealthy from other Republicans, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
A crucial question in the debate over income and wealth inequality is whether its growth necessarily leads to a growth in the inequality of political power. If it does, then this is a powerful reason for the federal government to take active measures to reduce income and wealth inequality - even if it comes at an economic cost to the nation. 
Conservatives and libertarians generally do not believe that increased inequality is a political or economic problem. To a large extent, I think that is because they fear that acknowledging the problem would require the adoption of policies they find distasteful, immoral and economically counterproductive.
That is, income and wealth would have to be redistributed - taken via taxation from the wealthy and given to the poor. The higher taxes will reduce the incentive to work, save and invest among the wealthy, conservatives and libertarians believe, which will reduce economic growth and lead to the expatriation of the wealthy from the United States, while fostering a culture of dependency among the poor that will reduce their incentive to better themselves and escape poverty.
Insofar as the political dynamics are concerned, conservatives and libertarians are generally fearful of democracy. That is because, in principle, there is essentially no constraint on the ability of the majority to take from the minority and reward themselves in a pure democracy. The founding fathers very much shared this concern and intentionally enacted numerous restraints on the majority to protect the rights of the minority to their wealth. Among these are the federal system, with relatively strong states and a weak national legislature, as compared to parliamentary systems, and a Senate where small, sparsely populated states, per capita, have more influence than large, populous states; a written constitution with strong protection for property rights; and an Electoral College instead of election of the president by pure popular vote.
One reason that conservatives and libertarians obsess over the large percentage of the population that pays no federal income taxes, often put at 47 percent, is the political concern that the nation is very close to a tipping point where the have-nots can take from the haves almost at will.
The simple solution to this problem, to the extent there is one, would be to extend the tax net to some of those now living free of federal income taxation. But this is practically impossible because Republicans, who mainly complain about the large numbers of nontaxpayers, enacted most of the tax policies that removed them from the tax rolls. These include the earned income tax credit and the refundable child credit.
Secondly, almost all Republican legislators have signed a tax pledge promising never to raise taxes for any reason. Most Republicans are also ideologically opposed to a value-added tax, which would be the simplest way of getting everyone to pay some federal taxes to cover the government's general operations. The payroll tax, which is more broadly based than the income tax, is earmarked to pay Social Security and Medicare benefits only.
Because the simple and obvious solution to their problem is off the table, conservatives and libertarians have concentrated on cutting benefits for the poor. They believe that programs such as unemployment compensation and food stamps subsidize laziness and undermine the work ethic. If such programs were cut, then those now benefiting would be forced into the labor force, where they would become taxpayers and cease being tempted by politicians promising them something for nothing.
The liberal view, by contrast, is that the poor are relatively powerless. They vote in lower percentages than the well-to-do and often suffer from policies to reduce their political influence, such as onerous voter registration requirements, demands for government identification at the polls and long waiting times to vote on Election Day. There is also evidence of growing pressure by employers to force their employees to vote against their own interest and for the employer's.
Liberals believe our political system is generally more responsive to the interests of the wealthy. The poor, after all, are not major sources of campaign contributions. 
But that is only part of the story. The well-to-do are far more likely to be engaged in the political process and to bring their concerns to bear on their elected representatives through direct contact.
Thus we have seen that while the recent budget sequestration has brought hardship to both the poor and the wealthy, Congress has taken no action to relieve the burden on the poor but acted with amazing speed to relieve a key concern of the wealthy - furloughs for Federal Aviation Administration personnel that created airline delays.
A new study by the political scientists Benjamin I. Page, Larry M. Bartels and Jason Seawright presents strong evidence that the wealthy are more aggressive and more successful than the poor at influencing the political system in their favor. This study is based on interviews with 83 wealthy people in Chicago.
The authors contrast the views of those in their survey with those of the general public based on national public opinion polls. They find that the wealthy are much more concerned than the general public about budget deficits, much more in favor of cutting social welfare programs, much less in favor of government jobs programs and much more opposed to government regulation, among other things.
Professors Page, Bartels and Seawright were unwilling to draw firm conclusions about whether the wealthy have disproportionate influence in American politics, owing to the small size of their survey sample. But it is at least obvious that the economic policy preferences of the wealthy strongly overlap with those of the Republican Party.
On the other hand, research by the political scientist Martin Gilens in his book "Affluence and Influence: Economic Inequality and Political Power in America" shows that the wealthy tend to be more liberal than the Republican Party on social issues. By and large, the wealthy are not religious, favor abortion rights and support gay rights.
The best hope for liberals in the future may be to emphasize social issues, which split the Republican Party between the interests of the wealthy and those of religious and social conservatives who dominate primary elections.

        
Dynamic Scoring Once Again
        
The Debt Ceiling and Playing With Fire
        
Median Household Income Down 7.3% Since Start of Recession
        
The Politics of the 14th Amendment and the Debt Limit
        
The Cliff Game

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); WRITERS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); INCOME TAX (60%) Bartels, Larry M; Income; Liberalism (US Politics); Libertarianism (US Politics); Republican Party; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%) Bartels, Larry M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



958 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank's Shares Rise as Its Leaders Look Past Financial Crisis

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: Deutsche Bank&#8217;s stock rose on Tuesday on expectations that a $3.87 billion share sale would clear the way for higher dividend payments. 

 BODY:
 4:58 p.m. | Updated FRANKFURT - Shares in Deutsche Bank rose for a second day after the bank sold 2.96 billion euros ($3.87 billion) in new stock on Tuesday to help it bolster the size of its capital reserves.
Deutsche Bank has long faced criticism that its capital buffers, the money that banks set aside to absorb losses in a crisis, were inadequate and that it carried too much risk from derivatives and other volatile investment banking products. 
But since taking over last year, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, the bank's co-chief executives, have been hoarding profit and selling assets to raise the proportion of capital to money at risk. Bank officials insisted that the share sale was not done in response to pressure from regulators in Europe or the United States.
"It was our decision," Mr. Jain said on Tuesday during a conference call with analysts. "There was no gun to the head."
Still, the move will go a long way toward ending the bank's reputation as one of Europe's riskiest and least-capitalized lenders. The new capital will allow it to rank near the top among large European banks in the size of its reserves, rather than near the bottom, and to comfortably meet new regulatory requirements.
The bank also raised more than it aimed for when it first announced the share sale on Monday. Institutional investors paid 32.90 euros a share for the new equity, Deutsche Bank said, a discount to the market price in Frankfurt on Tuesday of 35.03 euros.
Shares of Deutsche Bank, the largest German lender, rose 5 percent in New York trading on Tuesday on expectations that the share sale will clear the way for higher dividend payments, even though an increase in the number of shares lowers each shareholder's cut of profits.
Mr. Jain and Stefan Krause, the bank's chief financial officer, portrayed the share issue as a turning point that would set the stage for the bank to focus less on its baggage from the financial crisis and more on growth and profit.
"We could see where a capital raise would bring us to the point where the capital issue was off the table," Mr. Jain said.
European banks have as a rule taken longer to put the financial crisis behind them than American banks. The European lenders have had to deal with the burden of euro zone debt, but they also faced less pressure from regulators to confront their problems. Lately, though, there have been signs that some of the bigger banks are returning to health.
Investors had other good news to cheer from the bank this week. On Monday, the bank reported that net profit in the first quarter rose nearly 18 percent, to 1.66 billion euros, from 1.41 billion euros in the period a year earlier.
Though revenue rose a modest 2 percent, to 9.4 billion euros, the bank was able to cut costs. Mr. Krause said on the conference call that the bank expected to save about a billion euros over the full year.
Some analysts were still cautious about the bank's long-term prospects. The bank faces uncertainty over the European economy, which is stuck in recession. It also continues to address an array of legal proceedings that could be costly to resolve.
"Whilst we still see risks from litigation, regulation and the macro environment, the strengthened capital position should put the group in a better position to deal with these challenges going forward," analysts at Credit Suisse wrote in a note to clients. Credit Suisse upgraded Deutsche Bank shares to neutral, from underperform.
Deutsche Bank also said it would raise an additional 2 billion euros later in the year in the form of so-called hybrid equity, a form of debt that converts to shares in time of crisis and can thus be counted toward capital. The bank is waiting for German regulators to clarify rules for such instruments before it issues them.

        
As Earnings Season Rolls On, European Banks Show Signs of Health
        
Deutsche Bank Posts a Profit and Agrees to Raise Its Capital Reserves

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EURO (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BONDS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EURO ZONE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Company Reports; Deutsche Bank AG; Stocks and Bonds; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013



959 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: What went into William Randolph Hearst's favorite snack, Welsh rarebit: homemade cheese and butter, home-brewed beer, freshly baked bread and enough cash to keep it all going. - Julia Moskin 
: Having trouble finding the right kind of chocolate wafer cookies for refrigerator cakes and other recipes? Here's a recipe so you can make them at home. - Melissa Clark
The Economist: Turns out, not a few bumblebees are thieves, robbing some plants of their nectar without pollinating them, and new research has shown that, surprisingly, they learn their nefarious behavior from other bumblebees. - Glenn Collins 
Rolling Stone: Ezra Koenig, the brunch-loving frontman of Vampire Weekend, couldn't stick around for too long in Los Angeles. One crucial reason? He couldn't find omelets that were made the way they're made in New York. (Via Team Vampire Weekend) - Jeff Gordinier
Hulu: Sandra Lee lets on to Jimmy Fallon that her "boyfriend" - that would be New York's governor, Andrew M. Cuomo - loves to grill, but has some shortcuts he won't reveal to her: "Frozen chicken, solid, from the freezer on the grill in an hour, on the table," she said. "Perfect every time. Semi-annoying." (Via The Huffington Post) - Maria Newman
Boing Boing: Can you help save the fragile wetlands of Louisiana by eating rodents? - Jeff Gordinier 
The Daily Mail: Scientists in Edinburgh are attempting to genetically modify cows to remove their horns, to lower the risk of injury to farmers and other animals. - Glenn Collins
: Asparagus, carpaccio, French fries and a manifesto scrawled on brown paper tacked to the wall. - Jeff Gordinier
The Huffington Post: It's sleek. It's functional. It costs $200. It has a retractable handle. Why, it's the watermelon stroller, the ultimate watermelon-transporting device for the vegephile who has everything. - Glenn Collins
Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome: Step aside, ramps. Let's give wild asparagus the spotlight, for a moment. - Jeff Gordinier
: Big bowls of pho in Hell's Kitchen? Now we know where we're going for lunch. - Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); FROZEN FOODS (78%); RODENTS (75%); MAMMALS (75%); POULTRY (66%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); WETLANDS (50%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (51%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



960 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: The Long Wait for Wage Protections

BYLINE: JANE GROSS


HIGHLIGHT: Sixteen months ago, President Obama promised to end the exclusion of home health aides from the Fair Labor Standards Act, which guarantees minimum wage and overtime to workers. The aides are still waiting. 

 BODY:
More than three million home health aides - a lifeline for the elderly who are neither in institutions nor able to manage life's mundane tasks on their own - are learning exactly how sclerotic the nation's regulatory processes can be.
Nearly half of home health aides are so poorly paid they must rely on public benefits like food stamps and energy assistance. Sixteen months ago, President Obama promised to change Labor Department rules that exclude them from the protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act, which guarantees minimum wage and overtime to all other categories of American workers. The exclusion dates to 1974, long before the demographic changes that are making this a country of older people. 
The aides are still waiting. At the moment, they are considered "companions" under the law -- just like teenage baby sitters, the kind who live down the block and watch your children for a few hours while you go out to dinner and the movies. 
"Here's the thing,'' the president said in December 2011, "as the home care business has changed over the years, the law hasn't changed to keep up.'' He added that their "inexcusable'' working conditions were "just wrong'' and that he would guarantee they were "paid fairly for a service that a growing number of older Americans could not live without.''
The president's speech was attended by Pauline Beck, a home health aide from Oakland, Calif., who cared for an 86-year-old amputee, dressing him each morning, settling him in his wheelchair, cooking his breakfast and scrubbing his floors. During his first campaign for the White House, Mr. Obama visited the pair and, with cameras rolling, worked alongside Ms. Beck, washing and folding laundry, changing sheets and sweeping floors.
Frustrated but tentatively confident a promise made will be a promise kept, Ms. Beck recently noted that nobody "does this work to get rich." Such good will notwithstanding, it will not be possible to fill the additional 1.6 million positions needed by 2020 if conditions do not change. 
What has happened between then and now? How does a simple rule change like this one stumble on its way from the president's lips to the Federal Register? 
First, in anticipation of drafting a proposed revision, the Labor Department initiated a series of "listening sessions'' in July 2011, during which interested parties could weigh in. Then the department conducted an economic analysis of the annual costs of the change, most to be borne by Medicare and Medicaid, which would pay $31.1 million to $169.5 million more in reimbursement for home care. Still, those amounts would be more than offset by keeping the elderly out of expensive nursing homes, where aides are already protected by minimum wage and overtime regulations.
Already, 16 states and the District of Columbia assure home health aides $7.25 per hour, the legal minimum wage, as well and time-and-a-half for overtime. Four more states require only that these aides be paid the minimum wage. But all of these states except Massachusetts, Maine and New Jersey make certain exceptions designed to reduce costs, like limiting overtime wages for live-in aides, who presumably are not caring for clients 24/7. Other exceptions include not requiring these payment rules for workers hired directly by the consumer from the so-called "gray market,'' usually on the recommendation of friends or neighbors, rather than through an agency. 
Experts estimate that 90 percent of home health aides are found through the agency process. Their services cost around $20 an hour, but less than half goes directly to the aide, the rest to the agency. For-profit agencies - an $84 billion-a-year industry led by Home Instead, the nation's largest provider of nonmedical home care - were initially the most vocal opponents of the rule change, concerned that clients and their payers would not be able to afford the additional cost. According to PHI, formerly the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute, over half of home health aides are employed only part time, and fewer than 1 in 10 earn overtime. 
After the Department of Labor submitted its proposal to the Office of Management and Budget, a division called the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs began a 60-day comment period, another chance for advocates, opponents and just plain folks to have their say. 
The comment period has been extended twice. According to PHI, which advocates for better conditions for low-wage workers, more than 20,000 comments were received, 75 percent in support of the change. The Office of Management and Budget declined to respond to questions about this process, citing "a longstanding policy not to comment on rules under review."
After the extended period ended a few months ago, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs began a review of the Department of Labor's cost-benefit analysis and explored alternatives for reaching the desired outcome. But the deliberations surely were slowed midway by the resignation of Cass R. Sunstein, the official heading Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs and a longtime associate of Mr. Obama. 
Mr. Sunstein managed to upset just about everyone, from the Chamber of Commerce to the environmental community, before choosing the groves of academe at Harvard Law School, to the jostle of Washington. Mr. Obama announced Mr. Sunstein's replacement just last week: Howard Shelanski, an attorney and economist.
During the review, interested parties may meet face to face with regulators, and the Office of Management and Budget's public records show that at least eight such meetings have occurred. While representatives from Home Instead were among those who continued to lobby against the changes, the directors of state Medicaid programs, already strapped for funds, became increasingly active in their opposition. So did advocates for the disabled. They were joined by disability rights advocates concerned that many of the disabled did need round-the-clock help, which they feared would be limited by the overtime requirements. Neither group was mollified by the suggestion that one full-time worker could be substituted with aides on shifts, so none would qualify for time-and-a-half.
The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs has extended the time for its own review to May 14. At that point, the president or vice president may intervene if they do not endorse the outcome of the long process.
Bruce C. Vladeck, former administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration and also an employer of home health care aides for his own mother, said that he had "never seen such a clear instance of condoning the exploitation of millions of people." Mr. Vladeck said he was "heartened'' by the president's clear and public statements that the home care workers were being denied justice. On the other hand, Mr. Vladeck said, he was "increasingly concerned'' by the delays at the Office of Management and Budget. 
Stay tuned. May 14 is approaching, the deadline for resolution of this ongoing travail. The president and vice president may have far more pressing matters on their to-do lists. But they promised Pauline Beck.

        
Medicare Loosens the Purse Strings
        
Who's Watching Mom?
        
Home Health Aides: What They Make, What They Cost
        
Help by the Hour, or Less
        
For Veterans, an Alternative to the Nursing Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); AGING (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%) home health aides; in home; News & Research

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



961 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: To Satisfy Its Investors, Cash-Rich Apple Borrows Money

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Why would a company with $145 billion in cash even bother to issue debt? The answer has a lot to do with the frenzied state of the bond markets. 

 BODY:
 9:00 p.m. | Updated 
With a $145 billion cash hoard, Apple could acquire Facebook, Hewlett-Packard and Yahoo. Put another way, it could buy every office building and retail space in New York, according to city estimates.
But despite its extraordinarily flush balance sheet, the technology behemoth borrowed money on Tuesday for the first time in nearly two decades. In a record-size bond deal, the company raised $17 billion, paying interest rates that hovered near the low-cost debt of the United States Treasury.
Apple's return to the debt markets raises a riddle: Why would a company with so much cash even bother to issue debt?
The answer has a lot to do with the frenzied state of the bond markets. Companies are issuing hundreds of billions of dollars in debt to exploit historically low interest rates. They are also feeding strong investor demand for high-quality corporate bonds as an alternative to money market funds and Treasury bills, which are paying virtually nothing. 
Apple's maneuver, however, also reflects the unusual challenges of a fabulously successful company with a sinking stock price. Apple is plagued by concerns that its growth may be slowing, and its shares have plummeted from a high last fall of more than $700 to under $400 last month.
In an effort to assuage a growing chorus of frustrated investors, the company is issuing bonds to help finance a $100 billion payout to shareholders. Apple said last week that it planned to distribute that amount by the end of 2015 in the form of paying increased dividends and buying back its stock. Since that announcement, Apple shares have risen 10 percent, closing at $442.78 on Tuesday
Taking on debt can actually magnify the returns for shareholders and improve stock performance, financial specialists say. It can reduce the overall cost of the capital that a company invests in its business. In addition, after a stock buyback, there are fewer shares, which can increase their value.
Yet even as shareholders and analysts welcome the financial tactics, they emphasize that the maker of iPhones, iPads and Macs must continue to innovate and fend off increasing competition. After all, today's Apple could be tomorrow's Palm.
"This is a substantial return of cash and it's the right thing to do on many levels," said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Bernstein Research. "But, ultimately, the company has to execute. This is no substitute for that."
By raising cheap debt for the shareholder payout, Apple also avoids a potentially big tax hit. About two-thirds of Apple's cash - about $102 billion - sits overseas in lower-tax jurisdictions. If it returned some of that cash to the United States to reward its investors, it could have significant tax consequences for the company. In some ways, the bond issue is a response to that tax situation.
"They have been so successful with their tax planning that they've created a new problem," said Martin A. Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts, a publisher of tax information. "They've got so much money offshore."
The $17 billion debt sale by Apple is the largest corporate issuance on record, surpassing a $16.5 billion deal from the drug maker Roche Holding in 2009, according to Dealogic.
Apple joins a parade of large companies issuing debt with astonishingly low yields. Last week, Nike sold bonds that mature in 10 years that yielded only 2.27 percent. In November, Microsoft set the record for the lowest yield on a five-year bond, issuing the debt at 0.99 percent. In comparison, the yield on the 10-year Treasury on Tuesday was 1.67 percent, while the five-year note yielded 0.68 percent.
"If you look at these big companies like Apple and Microsoft doing these big, low-cost bond offerings, it's a way for them to raise money in an effort to create better returns for their shareholders," said Steven Miller, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. "The bond markets are practically begging these corporations to issue debt because of how cheap it is to raise money."
On Tuesday, Apple issued six different securities, with maturities ranging from a three-year note yielding 0.45 percent to a 30-year bond that yields 3.85 percent. The largest piece, a $5.5 billion issue, is a 10-year yielding 2.4 percent. While good for the company, longer-term bonds with yields this low can fall steeply in price if interest rates go up, hurting investors who hold them. Still, $3 billion of the Apple debt are notes whose interest rates are periodically reset.
Despite all the cash held by Apple, the credit-rating agencies have not awarded it their coveted AAA ratings, citing increased competition and a concern that its future product offerings could disappoint. Moody's Investors Service gave Apple its second-highest rating, AA1, as did Standard & Poor's, rating the company AA+. (Microsoft, Exxon Mobil, Johnson & Johnson, and Automatic Data Processing have the highest credit ratings from Moody's and S.&. P.)
"There are inherent long-run risks for any company with high exposure to shifting consumer preferences in the rapidly evolving technology and wireless communications sectors," wrote Gerald Granovsky, a Moody's analyst.
Apple's less-than-perfect rating did not drive away investors on Tuesday. The offering generated investor demand of about $52 billion, according to Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, which led the sale of the issuance.
Desperate for returns in a yield-starved world, investors like insurance companies, pension funds and foreign governments have been snapping up corporate debt. Individual investors are also driving the demand: this year, through last Wednesday, a record $55 billion has flowed into mutual funds and exchange-traded funds that invest in corporate debt with high-quality ratings, according to the fund data provider Lipper.
Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder and former chief executive, had long resisted calls to dispense big sums to investors. In 2010, when Apple's cash stood at $50 billion, he rejected pressure to make large distributions to shareholders. The company's cash balance continued to grow after Mr. Jobs's death in 2011, as it generated billions of dollars in earnings each quarter. Over the last 12 months, Apple operations have been generating about $150 million of cash a day.
A year ago, the new chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, announced a decision to start returning $45 billion to shareholders. But that did not satisfy everyone. David Einhorn, chief executive of the hedge fund Greenlight Capital and an Apple shareholder, pressed the company to do even more.
The excitement surrounding Apple's bond deal on Tuesday stood in stark contrast to the gloom that hung over the company when it last issued debt. In 1996, Apple faced a crisis, with shrinking sales of its niche computers and a weakening balance sheet that earned a junk credit rating. In the middle of the year, its shares reached a 10-year low.
"Will Apple Computer run out of cash soon?" asked an article in The New York Times on April 7, 1996. That summer, it tapped the bond markets, raising about $600 million and averting a crisis.
Later in the year, Mr. Jobs, who had left Apple more than a decade before, returned to the company.
 Charles V. Bagli contributed reporting. 

        
Apple and the Debt Market
        
Comparing the Valuations Behind Amazon and Apple Shares

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); BOND ISSUES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); SMARTPHONES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) Apple Inc; Credit and Debt; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; Stocks and Bonds; Taxation; Investment Banking; Technology

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013



962 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: How Immigration Reform and Demographics Could Change Presidential Math

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: We&#8217;ve designed an interactive graphic that allows you to make different sets of assumptions about immigration reform, population growth and racial voting patterns to see how the electoral math might change in the future. 

 BODY:
A bill to allow unauthorized immigrants to gain citizenship carries electoral risks and rewards for the Republican Party. On the one hand, if the bill were passed, some of those immigrants would eventually vote. Roughly 80 percent of illegal immigrants are Hispanic, and about 10 percent are Asian - groups that voted heavily Democratic in the last two elections.
On the other hand, such legislation could plausibly improve the Republican Party's brand image among Hispanics and Asian-Americans, perhaps allowing the party to fare better among these voters in future elections. Which of these effects would outweigh the other?
The answer is not necessarily obvious. As Harry J. Enten of The Guardian points out, such immigration reform is unlikely to create an electoral "bonanza" for Democrats, as some faulty attempts to analyze the question have concluded. But whether the legislation could be net-beneficial to the Republican Party depends on the assumptions you make. 
So, I've designed a tool, in the form of an interactive graphic, that allows you to make different sets of assumptions about immigration reform, population growth and racial voting patterns. Although the graphic contains a number of simplifications, we hope it will be useful to experiment with.
The graphic begins with 2012 voting results as a baseline. In each state, and the District of Columbia, I've estimated the vote for Barack Obama and Mitt Romney in the five racial categories (white, black, Hispanic, Asian and "other") that are tracked in exit polls.
Because the exit poll data is incomplete - 19 states did not have exit polls last year, and the polls often did not break down the results where a racial population was small (for instance, Asian-Americans in Montana) - I had to rely on various forms of extrapolation and interpolation to fill in the missing data points. My research suggests, for example, that the share of the Hispanic vote going to Mr. Obama in each state was modestly correlated with the share of the white vote he won in those states, while his share of the vote among African-Americans and Asian-Americans was not correlated with the white vote and instead was relatively constant from state to state.
The estimates are slightly more speculative in states where no exit polling was conducted in 2012. But because a complete set of exit polls were conducted in 2008, it was reasonably easy to extrapolate the results forward based on the overall shift in the vote in each state from 2008 to 2012, and the changes in national voting patterns among the different racial groups. The estimates are calibrated, however, so that the whole matches the sum of the parts: if you add up the estimated voting results among the five racial groups in each state, the results should exactly match the overall vote totals for Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney last year.
The interactive graphic then allows you to make three sets of assumptions to consider how the vote might change going forward.
 Step 1: Population Growth 
Immigration reform is being contested against a background of an increasingly nonwhite electorate. Seventy-two percent of voters were white in 2012, down from 74 percent in 2008 and 81 percent in 2000.
The graphic allows you to consider the effects of further population changes by entering growth rates for the five major racial groups. As a default, it assumes that the number of white voters will grow by 0.5 percent a year, the number of black voters by 1 percent a year, the number of Hispanic and "other" voters by 3 percent a year and the number of Asian voters by 3.5 percent a year. These figures represent a rough consensus of various population growth estimates.
Note that these changes are measured on an annual basis, rather than per election cycle, and that the changes will compound over time. If the number of Hispanic voters grows at 3 percent a year, for example, the total increase in Hispanic voters would be 12 to 13 percent by 2016.
The graphic also allows you to select the year in which the hypothetical election would be contested - population growth will have a larger impact the further you go out in time. (As a default, I've chosen 2028, which would be the first presidential election after the proposed 13-year path to citizenship.)
The calculation assumes that the growth rate among each racial population will be the same in each state - that is, if the Hispanic population grows by 3 percent a year nationally, it will grow by 3 percent a year in California, by 3 percent a year in Alabama, and so forth. However, because fast-growing racial groups represent a larger share of the population in some states, these states may grow faster over all. The graphic will automatically reapportion electoral votes based on these population growth estimates. (We may introduce the ability to make more sophisticated assumptions about population changes in future versions of the analysis.)
 Step 2: Unauthorized Immigrants 
The graphic also allows you to consider the effects of legislation that would introduce new citizens to the electorate. These changes are assumed to have a one-time effect: that is, they would affect the status of the roughly 11 million unauthorized immigrants who are already in the United States, but not future groups of immigrants. The calculation assumes that this impact is separate from the long-term changes in the voter population evaluated in the previous step.
The graphic requires you to estimate what percentage of that 11 million would become citizens under the new legislation, and what percentage of those new citizens would vote. Based on the research cited by Mr. Enten, we use 50 percent as a default value in each case. That is, half the unauthorized immigrants would become citizens, and half of those new citizens would vote, meaning that 25 percent of unauthorized immigrants would eventually become voters. But these assumptions can be changed.
You can also choose how to allocate the new citizens among the five racial categories. A majority of immigrants here illegally are Hispanic, but not all of them are. Instead, based on a variety of sources, I estimate that 80 percent are Hispanic, 11 percent Asian, 5 percent white, 2 percent black and 2 percent other races. The graphic assumes that once these immigrants became citizens, they would vote Democratic or Republican in the same proportions as other members of their racial group.
 Step 3: Changes to Racial Voting Patterns 
Finally, the graphic allows you to evaluate the effects of changes in the share of votes going to each party from each racial group. The changes are assumed to be uniform across states. So, for example, if your assumption is that the G.O.P. does five percentage points better with Hispanics nationally than it did in 2012, the Republican share of the Hispanic vote is assumed to grow to 44 percent from 39 percent in Florida, to 23 percent from 18 percent in Illinois, and so forth.
Note that the graphic can be used to evaluate the effects of any of these three steps independent of the others. For instance, if you are interested in seeing how the G.O.P. might have done in 2012 had it performed significantly better among Hispanics, but without considering the effects of population growth or immigration reform, you can set the election year to 2012 and zero out the values for the number of illegal immigrants who would become citizens.
 One Potential Scenario 
The most interesting application, however, is in seeing how the various positive and negative effects for Republicans might play out against one another. 
Suppose, for example, that the voter population grows in accordance with the defaults assumed in the model. This would produce a net of 6.3 million new votes for Democrats by 2028.
And suppose that 25 percent of the immigrants currently here illegally gain citizenship and vote by 2028. The model calculates that this would provide another 1.2 million votes for Democrats.
But suppose also that, as a result of immigration reform, the Republicans go from winning about 28 percent of the Hispanic vote and 24 percent of the Asian vote (as they did in 2012) to 35 percent of each group by 2028. That would shift about 4.8 million votes back to the G.O.P. - about four times more than it lost from the immigrants becoming citizens and voting predominantly Democratic. However, it wouldn't be enough to outweigh the Democratic gains from long-term population growth.
Different assumptions, naturally, will yield different results. In general, however, you should find that population growth and changes in racial voting patterns will have much larger effects than how the current group of unauthorized immigrants is treated.
The high-stakes question, in other words, is whether immigration reform would really allow Republicans to improve their vote share substantially among Hispanics and Asians, without costing them too many votes among white voters. If so, that is where the electoral "bonanza" might lie.

        
What Obama's Immigration Decision Might Mean for 2012
        
A Bad Economy Could Harm House Republicans
        
Did Democrats Get Lucky in the Electoral College?
        
Which G.O.P. House Members Might Support Immigration Reform?
        
As Swing Districts Dwindle, Can a Divided House Stand?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (96%); IMMIGRATION (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (70%); BRANDING (56%) 2012; Democrats; electoral votes; forecasting models; Hispanic voters; immigration; presidential elections; Republicans; Illegal Immigrants; Population; Race and Ethnicity; United States Politics and Government; Voting and Voters; Democratic Party; Republican Party; models; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013



963 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Missing the Big Picture

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: By tying up the White House with short-term matters, Congress is making it impossible to discuss the big issues that will determine the country&#8217;s economic prospects. 

 BODY:
President Obama used the better part of a rare news conference this morning to explain why Congress bears much of the responsibility for three of his most prominent failures: the pain of the sequester, the inability to close Guantánamo, and the problems implementing health-care reform. There's no doubt that he's right, particularly on the first two, but the questions and answers this morning missed the big picture: By tying up the White House with short-term matters like these, Republicans and many Democrats in Congress are making it impossible to even discuss the overriding issues that will determine the country's economic prospects. 
It's true, for example, that the sequester is slowing economic growth and throwing people out of work, as Mr. Obama said this morning. But what's most corrosive about the sequester is that it has induced Washington to play small-ball - to choose between flight controllers or Head Start slots, furloughs for meat inspectors or defense contractors. Lawmakers will be scrambling for months to answer interest-group demands for relief, and that means there will be little or no discussion about the large-scale, affirmative actions the government should be taking to prod the economy out of its lethargy.

Not a single one of the stimulus ideas proposed by Mr. Obama or Senate Democrats is under serious discussion. Republicans laugh raucously when anyone brings them up. There is no "Gang of 8" working on ways to get millions of jobless people back to work. At the news conference, the president mentioned the sorry state of American airports, compared to new ones around the globe, but big investments in aviation or any other kind of infrastructure are off the table while Congress bickers over which programs to cut.
You have to feel a little sorry for the new nominee for Secretary of Transportation, Mayor Anthony Foxx of Charlotte, who has been a thoughtful advocate for light rail, bike lanes, and other automobile alternatives. Virtually no new ideas or investments in transportation are likely to be approved while he is in office. As long as the sequester mentality maintains its grip on government, Congress won't pass actual budgets, just an endless series of continuing resolutions that repair a few of the worst highways and bridges and invest in nothing new.
The opposition to government action by the Republicans may be Lilliputian, but that doesn't mean it hasn't been effective. So far, Republicans (with some Democratic cooperation) have managed to preserve the status quo on guns, on campaign finance, on Guantánamo, on the courts, and on education. They have made major strides in halting the White House's attempt to regulate the financial industry and will make implementing health-care reform as slow and painful as possible. And the fate of immigration reform is very much up in the air, thanks to the determined opposition of dead-enders in the House.
Mr. Obama continues to make the case for thinking bigger, but his actions suggest he is still willing to play the mini-game that Republicans are encouraging, playing favorites among those affected by spending cuts. If he had refused to go along with the FAA sequester exemption, for example, then he might have been able to make a very different case today: Yes, travelers will have to bear some pain, but they will be sharing that pain with pre-school kids and scientific researchers and cancer patients and low-income housing tenants. It is the entire country that is affected when austerity begins to consume government, not just scattered groups of people, and the country will have to bear that burden collectively until more people understand that we are on the wrong path and demand that Congress change it.

        
How to Weaken a President
        
Look Who's Taking a Pay Cut
        
Obama's Public Lands Record
        
Drone Disdain
        
In Defense of Palestinians

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); APPROVALS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); MEAT INSPECTION (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Infrastructure (Public Works); Obama, Barack

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013



964 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Without Consumer Confidence

BYLINE: TERESA TRITCH


HIGHLIGHT: Money is still tight. The economy is slowing. Meanwhile, policymakers are pursuing austerity. 

 BODY:
Consumer spending is usually a sign of consumer confidence. But that's not the case in today's fraught economy.
Data out this week shows that consumer spending increased by 0.2 percent in March. That was slower than the 0.7 percent advance in February, but still more than economists had expected. Unfortunately, much of the higher spending in March was on utilities to heat homes in what turned out to be an unusually cold month. Spending actually fell on goods - which are better measures of underlying demand. 
So rather than a sign of strength, spending figures for March show that money is tight, causing households to cut back on other spending in the face of higher spending on necessities. Against that backdrop, it should come as no surprise that consumer confidence fell in April to a nine-month low, as measured by the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer-sentiment index.

For an economy in which consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of all activity, that is not good news.
It is also cause to think twice about claims that consumer spending will be buoyed by the wealth effect from rising home values and rising stock prices. House prices have risen as the number of foreclosures and other distressed sales has declined. Prices are not likely to keep rising at the current pace, however, without more jobs and higher pay so that potential homeowners can afford to buy.
As for the impact of rising stock prices, only a minority of Americans own stock and most of them own it in their retirement accounts. People undoubtedly feel better when their accounts are up, but those gains are partly, or largely, attributable to intervention from the Federal Reserve rather than underlying business strength. Is anyone convinced that those gains are here to stay?
In the real world, there is no substitute for growth in employment and income. But where will that come from? The economy is slowing - from an already tepid 2.5 percent annual growth rate in the first quarter, economists forecast growth of 1 percent to 1.5 percent in the second quarter. Meanwhile, policymakers are blindly pursuing austerity. Neither job growth nor pay raises are in the cards, and until they are, confidence will be hard to find and impossible to sustain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORECLOSURE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%) Consumer Behavior; Featured Posts

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013



965 of 965 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Straight Sets)

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS; tennis

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: On an Unhappy Anniversary for Seles, Wondering What Might Have Been

BYLINE: NICHOLAS MCCARVEL


HIGHLIGHT: Monica Seles was dominant before she was stabbed by a deranged man in 1993, but was not nearly as successful after the incident, prompting questions of what might have been. 

 BODY:
Twenty years to the day after Gunter Parche, a deranged Steffi Graf fan from Germany, plunged a knife into the upper back of then-world No. 1 Monica Seles at a clay court event in Hamburg, the footage of the attackis still hard to watch.
The clip, available on YouTube, opens with a blank screen but the familiar noise of Seles' grunt. Yet the grunt is not the two-tone exclamation of power that had become synonymous with the 19-year-old's game as she rose to dominance in the early 1990s, but instead a single tone of fear, then a man's yell. 
It is hard to imagine that day in 1993 is some two decades behind us now, but it's even harder to imagine what women's tennis would have been like - how the game might be utterly different today - if Seles had stood up five seconds earlier, or if the unemployed Parche had never hatched an idea to unseat Seles for his beloved Graf in the first place.
"That rivalry was just getting going," Billie Jean King said in a report about the stabbing in 2003, 10 years after it took place. "Everybody was waiting to see what would develop over the next decade, but it just didn't happen."
The "what ifs?" are plentiful only because the statistics of Seles' dominance - even with Graf as her fiercest competitor - are undeniable.
In April 1993, Seles had won seven of eight Grand Slams she had played in since the Australian Open in 1991, including three straight in Melbourne and Paris, going 55-1 in major tournaments in that span.
Of her 53 career titles, 32 of them came in 66 tournaments before the stabbing incident, meaning she won a remarkable 48 percent of the tournaments she played. In that same time, she went 257-34 overall, winning an astonishing 88 percent of her matches.
By comparison, Seles won 78 percent of the matches she played after her return, but just 18 percent of the tournaments - only 21 out of 116.
As Seles stayed away from tennis in 1994 and 1995, Graf racked up more Grand Slam titles while Conchita Martinez, Mary Pierce and Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario notched much-coveted majors.
Would they have been Seles's?
Perhaps. It is easy to wonder how the game would have played out in the mid-to-late-'90s, when a blossoming teenager known as Martina Hingis made her mark, winning five majors in three years and ushering in an era that included Lindsay Davenport (a three-time major winner), the Williams sisters, Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin.
After her return at 1995 United States Open, Seles reached just three Grand Slam finals and lost before the semifinals in 18 majors, including 12 times in the quarterfinals.
In 2001, an autograph seeker at the Hopman Cup in Australia startled Seles courtside so much that she was removed from the area. 
While Seles was an astonishing 36-1 over six months before her stabbing, she went 10-7 to finish her career, hampered by foot issues. She retired officially in 2008 and was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame the following year with 9 Grand Slam titles, nearly 600 match wins and $15 million in prize money.
But how good could she have been?
"I think all of us will always wonder," King added in the 2003 feature. "It's a question mark."

        
First Lady Teams With U.S.T.A. to Fight Obesity
        
For Ramirez Hidalgo, Little Glamour but a Lot of Tennis
        
The Disappearing One-Handed Backhand
        
U.S. Rebounds From Early Loss in Fed Cup
        
Williams Sisters Give Mixed Reviews to Film About Them

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%) Assaults; Graf, Steffi; International Tennis Hall of Fame; King, Billie Jean; Seles, Monica; Tennis

ORGANIZATION: International Tennis Hall of Fame

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (52%); SERENA WILLIAMS (52%); JUSTINE HENIN (52%) Graf, Steffi; King, Billie Jean; Seles, Monica

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (90%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (78%) GERMANY (90%); AUSTRALIA (78%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2013

 
